ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Carlos Hugo Fernández-Roca Suárez, I ask Dona Mercedes Jara Moreno if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u2	For Spain, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u3	Doña Mercedes Jara Moreno has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applause. - (FR) The ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the floor of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u4	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the following amendments to the agenda: in the part relating to the inquiries, that the urgent inquiry of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, which appears on the agenda as item 24, be debated before the urgent inquiry of the VOX Parliamentary Group, which appears as item 23 of the agenda. Secondly, point 29 of the opinion of the draft organic law amending the Organic Law 2/2006 of 3 May on Education is to be discussed as the first item of the Thursday session. And finally, the exchange in the order of debate of the validation or repeal of the actual decree-laws that appear on the agenda, so that the one corresponding to point 27 is discussed in the first place. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendments to the agenda were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u5	We begin with the point concerning the consideration of proposals for a law on popular legislative initiative and, in particular, the proposal for a law amending Law 39/2006 of 14 December 2006 on the promotion of personal autonomy and care for persons in a situation of dependency, as regards participation in the cost of the benefits and services of the beneficiaries. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor on the position-setting table by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Pause]] It is not in the Chamber. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr Barandiaran Benito. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Madam President. First of all, my greeting and consideration to the proponents of the initiative, because it is not easy to carry on an initiative like this, let alone carry it in the X, XI, XII, XIII and now XIV Legislature, because, although it was taken into consideration once, it did not come to the conclusion of its debate. The purpose of this bill is to amend articles 14 and 33 of the Act on the Promotion of Personal Autonomy and Care for Dependent Persons on a Specific Issue, which is that of User Participation in the Cost of Benefits and Services, Co-Co-Co-Co-Co-Co-Co-Co-Co-Co-Co-Co-Co-Co-Co-Co-Co-Co-Co. And he does so in order, according to his memoir, to point out at the legal level clearer and fairer criteria in relation to the economic capacity and cost-sharing of the benefits of personal autonomy and care for dependency on the part of the beneficiaries. In addition, it also envisages the regulatory development of measures by the Government and supports this possibility in the exclusive competence to regulate the basic conditions that guarantee the equality of all Spaniards in the exercise of their rights and in the fulfilment of their constitutional duties, as stated in the competence title of 149.1.1a of the Spanish Constitution. Regardless of the opinion that we may deserve its content - with which, on the other hand, I will then explain that we are going to agree in large part - it is necessary to highlight - as we said on the occasion of the adoption of Law 31/2006, precisely of attention to dependence, and as we repeat also in the consideration of the same initiative, of the same legal proposal in the XII Legislature - that such regulation constitutes, in our opinion, a new episode of competitive invasion that violates the exclusive competence of the Basque Autonomous Community in the field of social assistance and, in particular, against 10.12 of the Statute of Gernika, further aggravated in this case by the attribution of regulatory capacity to the Government for its details. The justification that is repeated, both then and now, is an incorrect and extensive manipulation of the principle of equality, as if it were an attribution of powers in favour of the State and, consequently, eroding an exclusive autonomous competence of 148 of the Constitution and emptiing it of content in an absolute way. Only by setting as an example my own headquarters, the Basque Country, in the Basque Autonomous Community is Law 12/2008 on Social Services, together with Decree 185/2015, which, firstly, defines access to the services and services of the catalogue of services and services of the Basque System of Social Services as a universal and subjective right; which, secondly, requires a portfolio of services and services of the Basque System of Social Services, and which, thirdly, integrates that portfolio with those provided by the State law and assigns its implementation to both the Basque Government and the outlaws or the municipalities, which are for their part entrusted with the competence to regulate the technical and economic requirements of each benefit. Therefore, what I want to explain to you is that it is our internal legislation that regulates those aspects in which the law and the proposal come to interfere, with which we understand that what is intended is a new intrusion. This is despite the fact that, for its part - and it is also with appreciation to the proponents of this issue - the specific measures on which it is intended to be based may not only be acceptable but are recognised. Moreover, we could agree with them and, in fact, they are partly also being applied in Euskadi. The specific measures are those of article 14, which include different factors for determining the economic capacity of those who can contribute to the maintenance of the provision, and that of article 33, for introducing different guarantees in the economic effort of the persons benefiting from the system. I repeat, these are not baladian issues, nor are they alien to us, and we could even take part in them, but we must disagree, because, as the explanatory statement itself comments, it affects a new issue which also involves a new competitive invasion, which is the attribution of powers to the Government of the State for its regulatory development. What, in view of the description I have just described, is a new interference, in this case materially, in the powers of the outlaws and an aggravated shock which limits the powers of the outlaws in the implementation of social policies. Already then, in 2017, and also in 2016, we said and reiterated that this initiative - said with all respect - makes the same mistake of disguised as regulating the basic conditions that guarantee the equality of all Spaniards what is nothing but interference in aspects of management of an exclusively autonomous matter, according to article 148 of the Constitution. We have said this in its day and we reiterate it today: it is not lawful to invoke as a competitive title a higher value of the legal order as is the principle of equality as if it were an attribution of competences or to use its terms to justify an improper attribution of competences. An attempt is being made to cover in a false umbrella of basic aspects what are still specific areas of management of the material title of social services, which can perfectly be designed by the autonomic legislator and which, in fact - as I have commented to you before - are in Basquedi and possibly in other places as well. For this reason, and even if we are in some way involved not only in philosophy, but also in its content, we have no other solution but to vote against it. However, if it were to go forward, we would also take part in the corresponding amendments in order to try to correct this competition deficiency, which is already overly repeated as a centraliser in this particular area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mrs. Aizpurua Arzallus asks for the floor.]] Mrs Aizpurua, you have had your turn, but given that we have not given many speaking times, I give you the opportunity, on behalf of Euskal Herria Bildu, to take it at this time. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President, and I apologise to the other Members. We're looking at a proposition we'd say veteran. It has been promoted since 2015 to amend the Law on Promotion of Personal Self-Government and Dependence on Participation in the Cost of Benefits and Services of Beneficiaries. This popular legislative initiative in 2015 attracted the support of nearly 740,000 people, becoming the first social ILP to overcome the barrier of the 500 000 signatures, the legal minimum required. It is only for this reason that it deserves to be taken into consideration and dealt with, but it also deserves, on account of political and social responsibility, to be improved in its handling. In this long recurring history of issues affecting dependent persons and also persons with disabilities, this is yet another example of the frustration situation experienced by these groups, compounded above all by the inaction of the Administration in everything that affects - or much, to be more accurate - disability and dependence, one of the battle horses that seems to have no solution. It is enough to point out that, with regard to this popular legislative initiative, its process has started and declined in the last four legislatures. Let us hope that this is the final one and let us also hope that it will serve not only to resolve the issue of co-payment, but also to draw attention to the permanent oblivion of this sector of the population. It is clear that co-payment is a negative element, an unfair element, since those who cannot cope with costs are excluded from that right. This ILP means introducing limits to the copayo, which we agree on. However, there are several other issues. In the Basque Autonomous Community and also in Navarre we have exclusive competence to regulate the contribution of users, a competition that the Basque Government has not used for more than a decade. Our aim is the free provision and services of the Social Services System in a condition similar to the health system. In this regard, all measures to this end will count on our support. They are not mere words to look good, in fact, in the Diputación Foral de Guipúzcoa we already have experience in this, since in the legislature from 2011 to 2015, ruled by Bildu, we reduced the co-sponsorship, reform that later - and unfortunately - ran out of effect as the government changed. That is why the path chosen in this initiative is not, in our view, the most appropriate, but in the process of the law we will present our proposals in this regard. The initiative envisages the need to take into account the variable of whether the dependency situation has been acquired or is born, because, in the latter case, the dependent person has not been able to have his own income and will face expenses for many more years. We agree with this, because the age at which dependency occurs must be taken into account when determining people's disposable income. Because no one will deny that a girl or a child with a disability life is put uphill from the beginning. For this reason, also because not everyone starts from the same point of departure, inequality also feeds on people with disabilities, although for all of them disability is an economic aggravation that results in an extra cost in life. It is a continuous line and, at the same time, it is a tortuous circle. The situation of disability leads to fewer educational opportunities, therefore, to lower professional qualifications and thus to less access to employment in relation to the rest of the citizenry. In addition, when there are benefits, services, where there are, the products they have to purchase cost them more because of their disability. Naturally, we will give the green light to the way in which the amendment is being carried out. We hope that, throughout the debate, we will be able to gather more information on the scope of all sectors to be taken into account; that the alternatives to the co-op issue - which, I repeat, we believe, must move towards the free health system - will be clarified in the right direction, even more so when co-op is a punishment added to dependence and disability. We believe that the proposals that are made should be studied in depth, just as we believe that dependence is a matter to be addressed in its entirety rather than only with regard to the two articles cited, 14 and 33. Personal assistance is also a subject that needs to be addressed and is likely to improve significantly. It will be necessary to assess, inter alia, what includes the promotion of personal autonomy and care for persons in a situation of dependency, that the necessary mechanisms are articulated so that, in the first place, it is the dependents themselves who can directly hire their personal assistants or caregivers. There are models on which to draw inspiration, models of management of other European countries that work satisfactorily, models of management that also contribute to them, the dependents, who take the lead in their lives and that some organizations in the sector are already demanding. This popular legislative initiative paves the way for addressing many aspects of dependency that are likely to improve. We will do so and we will push for this law to be improved and the rights of these groups to be assisted are respected. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurúa. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u10	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain there are 1.3 million dependent people, many of whom are people who are in this situation of dependency due to circumstances associated with a disability. However, there is no need for generalizations because, as you know, all dependent persons have a disability, but it remains to be said that not all persons with disabilities are dependent persons, as thousands and thousands of people show us that they strive day by day to work their own autonomous lives and contribute to a much more inclusive society. In the lives of dependent people, the progress made in the Unit Act of 2006, was a real milestone in the history of our country's social policies, a common framework of protection and rights for all people. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have to be consistent, we have to assess the effectiveness of the legislation that has been put in place. And, taking into account the current situation, we see how the progress achieved is far from the objectives set by that law. There has been a lack of political will to correct the shortcomings of the current, over-bureaucratized model; there has also been a lack of willingness to contribute financially to what was established by the law itself, so that there is a balanced contribution by the General Administration of the State with that of the autonomous communities; there are still excuses to cut the funding of the system, as well as the cuts that occurred during the government of absolute majority of the People's Party with Mariano Rajoy since 2012. All of this has contributed to the problems that are currently evident in the system of care for dependency in our country. Let's get a little closer to today's data. Nearly 235,000 people are in dependency and do not receive any benefits, despite having that right recognized. Ladies and gentlemen, by 2020 30 000 have died without ever being able to receive the benefit to which they were entitled, 30 000 people. This is undoubtedly the most illustrative image of failure to realize the rights recognized in this law after a decade of struggle and demand on the part of dependent people, their families and civil society, of which Cermi, who promotes this initiative, is one of the main representatives. Because this initiative emphasises an essential aspect which, when we talk about the lack of resources, often goes unnoticed, something which is perhaps not very visible, but is that not only has funding been significantly reduced, it is also that the co-sponsorship of users, which currently accounts for around 22% of the funding of the system, greatly increased. The co-payment is particularly burdensome for dependents with fewer resources, who contribute almost all their pension or income to this contribution. Do we have to be aware that the cohabiting of a residence is between 60? % and 95% of the income of many people. So how much money do these people have left for their personal needs? How much money do these people have left for those services that do not fit into their own provision, such as hairdressers, glasses, dentists, etc.? Moreover, the design, as it is established, makes some sections completely regressive. What they cause in the end is that the one who has the least is the one who is most contributed. Therefore, the mistakes that need to be corrected are obvious. That is why we take into account the popular legislative initiative promoted by Cermi and presented today, which envisages some far-reaching reforms that seek to make this participation of users in the cost of the benefits of the Dependency Care System more fair. They seek, on the one hand, to fine-tune the formula of determination of the copays so that both age and - this is vital - the greater or lesser prolongation of the situation of dependence are taken into account. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the same as a unit associated with a congenital disability, which can force a person to be entitled to lifetime benefits, as a unit derived from an acquired disability or simply from an old age. The same proposal sets out how one wants to limit one's own co-payment in relation to the cost of service, which is currently 90%, or increase the minimum co-payment exemption. Now it's 19% of Iprem, it's about 110 euros a month, ladies and gentlemen. It is also intended to increase the exemption threshold to ensure that no one is left out of the system due to a lack of economic resources, all of which are already aimed at them. We will therefore vote in favour of this initiative promoted by the Cermi and other entities of the disability and dependency movement to be dealt with and debated in this House, because thousands and thousands of dependent people cannot wait any longer, as unfortunately demonstrates the more than 20,000 lives that, according to official statistics, we have lost alone in the last five months. Life can change from day to day, ladies and gentlemen, and we now have it in a very obvious way, but it can even end at any time, at the most unexpected moment. We therefore believe that we should not forget these situations. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u12	Thank you, Madam President. The adoption of the Dependency Act in 2006 generated hopeful expectations regarding the possibility of articulating effective social protection measures to meet the needs of vulnerable sectors of our society. However, in its practical application, this law always lacked the necessary impetus by the State Administration to enable it to fully meet its objectives, starting with inadequate funding, which, together with an excessive bureaucracy that slowed the approval of applications, caused many people to be too late to see their needs covered. So much so that part of them did not arrive in time to see them fulfilled. The Unit's Autonomy and Care System was the victim, like many other public social programmes, of the cut-off policies implemented over the past ten years, especially during the People's Party Governments, where huge amounts of money - billions - were spent on rescuing banks, while these resources for rescuing people were scarredly denied. In this line, the regulation of the copayo was a factor in the generation of injustices and a lack of equity. We therefore find it absolutely necessary to legislate to ensure that the lack of economic resources is not an impediment to the enjoyment of the protection measures provided for in the law. The BNG agrees with the content of this bill, although it disagrees with its centralizing bias, which we hope will be corrected. At the same time, we will continue to work to strengthen social protection mechanisms and, in particular, to strengthen State funding for the Dependency Act to reach 50% legally established and which we set as our objective in the investment agreement to guarantee quality of life and well-being...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u13	Mr. Rego, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u14	...of all people in a situation of dependence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u15	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u16	Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to express my group's appreciation to Cermi. It is clear that a popular legislative initiative at this time and on this subject is not easy to reach more than 700,000 signatures. It is not easy to make this collection of signatures and I would like to add that it is also not fair that such collection goes from legislature to legislature. Today we have the duty and the challenge of addressing this debate, a debate that is undoubtedly pending and absolutely necessary because of the social support shown by all these signatures. Therefore, our recognition of this uneasy task and the blocking of this parliamentary debate in the legislature. On the other hand, dealing with the co-op debate means dealing with the debate on the funding of the unit at the same time. On other occasions we have heard that 2013 the Generalitat of Catalonia is contributing more than 75% of the funding of the unit, which since 2012 approximately 367 million euros are missing each year, which is being added to the debt box, and that the state is currently contributing only about 15% in terms of dependence. It is therefore important to deal with the debate on co-payment, but it is also important to deal with the debate on the financing of dependence, because that which the state would contribute 50% and the autonomous communities another 50% at the end has not occurred. In the absence of this balance between the State and the autonomous communities, the only thing that has been done is to further damage the economies of those who are beneficiaries of dependency. The copayo, in short, generates more pressure on those inhabitants of these autonomous communities who are bearing the expenses and, therefore, more risks for all those people who cannot bear this expenditure on dependence. It is therefore important for this debate to return to the Courts and it is very important for it to have the path it deserves to address this issue. Other States of the European Union proposed linking amounts from the IRPF to the unit, linking amounts from the contributions to the unit, and in Spain it was chosen to derive it directly from the general income of the State. Therefore, addressing the topic of co-sponsorship, addressing the issue of unit funding, is beginning to be important for assessing, as has also been pointed out here, this system of dependency and for rethinking any adjustments that may be required. Of course, on this path we will find and with a careful look at two fronts: one, to the content of the same initiative, in whose processing we believe that we can make improvements, and two, to respect the competitive framework and to all the competences that correspond to the different autonomous communities. I am therefore very pleased that the debate is taking place and we will be taking action in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. All our gratitude to all the thousands of people who have made the ILP possible, the elements of this bill, which comes for the third time to the Congress of Deputies with an extensive social and citizen base of almost 740,000 signatures of support throughout the Spanish State. The present proposal for a law that comes from the disability movement proposes and proposes to reform Law 39/2006, almost fifteen years later, in one of its most controversial, problematic and critical aspects, the dependent co-op, which, in the opinion of the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the status of confiscation. Why? Because it is a regulation lacking equity, material justice and because, more than inviting the exercise of subjective law, it expels older persons, persons with disabilities, natural recipients of the system, because of their heavy and enormous demands on economic input. It has generated a great and legitimate social rejection and a deployment in these years of the System for Autonomy and Care of the Unit, SAAD. Persons with disabilities, older people who need intensive support for their individual autonomy and community participation, women and girls with disabilities, mothers caregivers or assistants of persons with disabilities, many people who, due to their structural situation of greater exclusion on the basis of gender and disability, suffer particularly from the effects of the confiscation co-op, preventing them from providing essential social support or restricting or suppressing the scarce and precarious they have been receiving, deepening their situation of objective disadvantage and further abhorring them from poverty and social exclusion. It is a huge aggravation, ladies and gentlemen, which makes people with disabilities poorer, the same people who, in general, have one third less income capacity, less educational opportunities, less opportunity for access to employment, less professional qualification and, as a result, less income availability in relation to the rest of the citizenry. And for the most part, apart from everything I have just said, benefits, services, products, cost them more because of their disability. In short, they are poorer and have to pay more. We have to remember - and from the Republican Group we stress this - that there is a double-band under-financing of the State: on the one hand, there is the deficit of financing social services, since in the mid-1980s the State transferred the competence of these services to all the autonomous communities and to the municipalities but without funding, therefore, it turns out, obviously, also in the family economies, not only in the administrations. The transfer deficit is already historical and very high. This, in some ways, actually affects family economies and, therefore, there is a huge responsibility on the part of the State that must go parallel to the implementation of other measures, such as that proposed by the ILP citizen and this proposed law. I believe - we believe - that this initiative should go hand in hand with other measures, bearing in mind that there are historical deficits that have been dragging away for a long time, and we will do so in parliamentary procedure. And with the lack of funding for the Dependency Act it is the same, ladies and gentlemen, that the State is failing to comply with its own law, which is that of financing of 50%, and that 50% has not been fulfilled since almost the beginning - even the Cermi says it - and neither is it known how much the co-payment is being made - also the Cermi says it - at the moment, because there is no data; there is no data. Sometimes decisions are made by social pressure, by someone's influence, and not on a scientific basis of evidence. We also agree with this and, moreover, in the Spanish State there are currently no formulas to allow the analysis of how the process of drafting a law takes place. In a system where 80% of legislative output is produced at the initiative of the Government, it is essential that an organ be established to assess the democratic quality of the regulatory creation procedure, especially if we take into account that the parliamentary drift on most occasions places this house, the Congress of Deputies, as a mere space for ideological endorsement of what the parties in power propose. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for a regulatory impact analysis, a tool of effectiveness contrasted from the legislative systems of various countries around us to provide sufficient elements of judgment to assess the democratic quality of the regulatory processes and also the effectiveness of the laws in force at all times. With the current regulation, shared payments between the Administration and users are determined on the basis of the economic capacity of the latter. Thus, this negative effect on lower incomes is amplified in those territories in which this capacity is calculated - and I conclude, Madam President - including the person's assets. It is for this house to take into account this proposal for a law, as requested by the citizenry, to compensate for the time lost in the last five years for those who need intensive support for their autonomy, persons with disabilities, older persons and their families, who have unfortunately been historically silenced. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carvalho. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Saavedra Muñoz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u20	Thank you, President. Good evening. The enactment of the Law on the Promotion of Personal Autonomy and Care for Dependent Persons in 2006 represented a major step forward in the country in extending social rights to persons in need of support for their personal autonomy and community participation on an equal basis. This new social protection system came to repair a historical deficit in the welfare structures in Spain. It generated enormous expectations among professionals in the sector, in families, who considered, like all civil society, that this rule would really improve the living conditions and citizenship rights of a vulnerable sector of the population in many cases. But its development was frustrated by the People's Party's cut-off policies and its process of systematic demolition of the Dependency Act. Mr Rajoy publicly said that it was unsustainable and in his first General State Budgets in 2012 he allocated zero euros to the attention of the dependency. It was very hard years. The People's Party, which today is so supportive of supporting families and dependents, eliminated contributions to non-professional caregivers - mostly women in the family environment - imposed pharmaceutical co-ops, increased other co-ops, reduced support and made different resources and services incompatible. These cuts had serious consequences for the people affected and their families in the midst of the crisis and caused much pain. I have seen people who have stayed with aid for protection, aid for dependency, of 31 euros a month; or people who had to decide between paying a very expensive medication for their disabled child or buying food; or people who took their children out of occupational centres because they lost the right to an economic benefit. From here we would like to thank and value, in addition to the task of Cermi as a promoter of this ILP, the struggle for years of platforms in defense of the Law of Dependency, of professionals of social services, of directors and managers, of official social work schools and of other entities of disability. They were hard years of mobilizations and protests defending the dignity of people in a situation of dependence, in which I was able to participate in the Valencia Country. It is necessary also and especially the enormous work of so many women - mothers, sisters, daughters, carers - who have turned their backs on dependent people without just supporting the institutions in these years, giving up their work or their personal life. It is also fair to recognize that there have been autonomous communities, such as mine, Valencian, with progressive governments, such as the Botànic, that have made a great effort to reverse these cuts and recognize rights by supplanting the state's cowardice. This ILP which we are dealing with today in relation to participation in the cost of benefits and services of dependent persons has been going on for five years in this House without going to court. It has been backed by more than 740,000 signatures and involves a large citizen mobilization in defense of the rights of those who need these resources. It is a valuable initiative for democratic participation and a proposal that we cannot ignore. We will vote in favour of its consideration, in addition to technical issues to be considered in the subsequent procedure, especially in relation to autonomous competences, as has been mentioned here. Co-sponsorship is also a subject on which the Government is already working in dialogue with the Autonomous Communities. The proposal put forward in this ILP is absolutely in line with one of the priorities always defended by the United Nations We can and contemplated in the government agreement: to improve the system of personal autonomy and care for dependence, to advance in the culture and economy of care, facilitating reconciliation, autonomy of people and self-management of their lives, and to generate decent jobs. These priorities of our parliamentary group and of the coalition government have been reinforced today by the learnings of the pandemic and the new European context that puts an end to the cruel policies of neoliberal austerity. This new paradigm focuses on social reconstruction and is expressed in the General Budgets of the coalition government state with the largest investment in social policies in thirty years. It contains a plan to shock dependency care with more than 600 million to improve the system and explicitly collects analysis and review of the current co-payment system, in addition to the increase in minimum amounts and reduction of waiting lists. It also envisages a rethinking of the long-term care model, which involves empowering resources such as home help, personal assistance and day centres to maximize people's independent lives and to move towards a new residential model that focuses on people's needs and not on business, as has so far often happened. From the United Nations We can work to make the new budgets soon a reality with the majority of progress of this House for the consolidation of the welfare state of our country. We will support the consideration of this ILP, as will certainly do parties that increased and hardened the co-payments, but one thing is clear: if the priority of a political force is to reduce taxes in a general way, it will impose more and greater co-payments; if the priority is the care of people, the attention cannot depend on the co-payments, a fair taxation will be imposed, giving rise to the constitutional mandate to pay more who has the most, ending the circumvention and tax evasion. That's our choice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs. Saavedra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Ines has a little boy named John Paul, a dependent child with heart problems that made him leave us at 15 months of life. [[Show a picture]] The day little John Paul died, Ines came to his house and, you know what he found in the mailbox? A letter from the counselor granting her the dependency allowance that was owed to her son from the outset. Ladies and gentlemen, Inés works in this house and sees us every day in and out, in and out, in and out, one day and another day and another day, and sees us talking and voting, talking and voting, one day and another day and another day, and I am convinced that he does not understand what we do that we do not solve once and for all the problem of dependence in Spain. [[Applauds]] Juan Pablo is one of those faces, one of those dependent people who died without the support of the institutions, but he is not the only one, because in 2019, 85 people died a day without the support of the State and in 2020, 176 people die a day without receiving the benefit they deserve. [[shows a photograph]] I don't know what we're playing at. It is good enough to pretend that this law has resolved something, because the Dependency Act has made it clear that it is either reformed or has not come to solve anything. It can only be considered a small support, but it is a support that fails to meet the real needs of so many beneficiaries in this country. Economic benefits are not enough. Depending on the service they vary, but it is clear that they do not cover such services. In the case of residential benefits, for the places, the actual costs can triple the assistance of the benefit. This is something we can't afford. In home help, for the maximum degree of dependency, for grade 3, the maximum we are given is home care of two and a half hours a day from Monday to Friday; a situation of extreme dependence and the maximum that the State grants it is aid of two and a half hours from Monday to Friday. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the reality that dependent families face. A dependent person demands such a sacrifice that in the end a relative or caregiver must give up everything, everything, for caring for that dependent person. Far from being two and a half hours from Monday to Friday, it is 24 hours 365 days a year without truce. Brothers, mothers, parents or uncles not only sacrifice their time, but give up a job because of the impossibility of making something like this compatible with the intensity of care, and yet the state has come to solve nothing. Until the benefits coincide with the actual costs of services, ladies and gentlemen, we have a problem that we have not been able to solve. In addition, there is a very generous investment in dependence in other European countries. We are on an average of 0.5% of GDP and in other European countries there is an average of 2% of gross domestic product for dependency services. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good enough to pretend that the autonomous communities serve something, that's all right! Outside the complexes and dare to say without complexes that have failed, because they have de facto created Spanish first and Spanish second. Ladies and gentlemen, in Andalusia a dependent person can receive an economic benefit per dependency of EUR 5000 per year. However, the same benefit in Cantabria is 8700 euros. If you are lucky enough to have been born in Murcia, your benefit is 5700 euros a year and if you are a dependent on Basque land, 3000 euros more to change the autonomous community, rising to an amount of 8500 euros. This is a real shame, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] You do not speak here of privileges that are held in relation to each autonomous community. Are the items of dependence to be increased in the negotiations of the budgets according to which territories? Are they going to increase them for Catalan dependents, Basque dependents or Canary dependents? Are they going to increase them, even to the detriment of the rest of the state's citizens? This is what you do with the State Security Forces and Corpses as compared to the autonomous police; you do with the health care workers, with whom you fill your mouths to speak, and yet you do not raise their salaries or report that they charge differently according to which autonomous community they are in, and neither do you report that they charge differently the teachers and so many public professionals for the autonomic whim that has come to make us all more unequal. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good enough for bureaucratic labyrinths, and above all it is good enough for bureaucratic labyrinths in which we play with the most vulnerable. We're not taking care of our dependents, but we're not taking care of our caregivers either. In Ceuta and Melilla it takes an average of 120 days to resolve a dependency benefit. [[shows a graph]] However, in the Canary Islands, an average of 785 days, two years to resolve a benefit of a right already available. I am glad that this was an ILP, because if it had been an initiative of VOX, as has already happened with the legislative initiatives that we have presented to reduce the co-payment of the mutualists and pensioners of Isfas, Muface or Mugeju, you would have rejected it because you illegally veto the processing, because you are more entertained in making a health cord to VOX than in solving the real problems of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, every eight minutes a person is dying by dependence to which you deny the benefit that already belongs to him...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u23	Mrs. De Meer, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u24	I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u25	No, it just has to end now.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u26	Damn goodism with which you want to save the world by abandoning the Spaniards, because you have left us sold. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u27	Thank you, Mrs. De Meer. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs García Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u28	Thank you, President. The first thing I want to do is to thank Cermi and the organised disability to lead this initiative, which is endorsed by 740 000 signatures, because it is an initiative that thinks of the more than 1 100 000 dependent people who are being attended to right now, but what is more important, it thinks of the 376 000 people who are on waiting list pending some procedure. We have to go back to the year 2006, when this law was passed, the Dependency Act - the year 2006 - which was going to consolidate the welfare state - was talking about the fourth pillar of welfare - but what has not really been said today is that this law did not bring an economic memory. That is why we are here today addressing the funding channels of the Dependency Act, which are three: the co-sponsorship, the financing of the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Communities. The co-sponsorship is covered by Law 39/2006 itself and, in addition, in its article 32, it also states that the Autonomous Communities and the General Administration of the State shall contribute 50% each year, i.e. equality in contributions. The reality is that today the accepted funding of the General Administration of the State is unique and exclusively through the minimum level, which is 17%. As Mrs de Podemos referred only to the People's Party when she ruled, I have to say that the biggest cuts in dependence were made in a real decree to reduce the public deficit in 2010, and that she even voted in favour of the President of the Government himself, Mr Pedro Sánchez. [[Applauds]] They cut almost 700 million, because they eliminated the retroactivity of the Dependency Act and because in addition, in the same royal decree, they cut salaries to officials, frozen pensions and eliminated the baby check. But not only did they do that, they left 1034 million debts from the contributions of the non-professional caregivers in Social Security; 1034 million they left, and the People's Party had to come to order. [[Rumors]] Yes, order, because what the People's Party did, apart from putting order, was to incorporate 234 000 more dependents into the dependency care system, the professional services increased 13 points, and 72 000 people joined the dependency care system and met with the Conference of Presidents, through which an agreement was reached - thanks to the work of Mario Garcés and Minister Dolors Montserrat - between the communities governed by the PSOE and the People's Party and a report was made on the analysis and attention to dependency. With that report, which said that the minimum level of funding had to be recovered, what the socialist government did, when it arrived in 2018, was to keep it in a drawer. And do you know how much they've devoted over these years to the funding of the unit? Zero euros, because that royal decree stayed in the drawer and slept the dream of the righteous. And that is not what I say, as stated in the State Observatory's report for the Unit with the data as at 31 December. In 2019 the socialist government managed to have 50,000 more people on the waiting list and 38,000 fewer services and benefits, and it also achieved the great milestone that state funding fell for the first time in the entire history of dependency to 16%; never seen it. And the year 2020 came, the vice president Iglesias came to the government, the social vice president with all the gallons, and the pandemic came, and March came, and the residences arrived, and the dead arrived in the residences and the people who were not being cared for at their homes, and also came, of course, the lack of attention on the part of a government, by a vice president who showed himself to be a fugitive, who disappeared, who did the ostrich policy: hiding his head and running away, instead of caring for the dependent people of Spain, who were having a really bad time. [[Applauds]] That's what you did and what you're doing now. Moreover, they did not dedicate a single euro of the COVID Fund, approved on 16 June in the Council of Ministers and endowed with 16 billion - and that is what President Pedro Sánchez announced 1 billion for dependency and social services - to dependency and social services. That is the legacy of the progressive coalition government. We now come to the General Budgets of the State, to the budgets in which you paint 600 million euros and call it a shock plan, when what you had to have budgeted were 1 billion euros in 2020. They don't comply with that, they paint a shock plan with which no one is at all compliant. Firstly, the sector is not in agreement, because it is not participating. It is the sectors themselves that are amending them, because they consider these EUR 600 million insufficient, which will be late, because they will come in the year 2021. In addition, more than 47 000 people on the unit's waiting list have died this year, 40 000 of them, according to the MoMo report, in excess of mortality. That's Podemos' legacy. It's a shock plan that doesn't satisfy anyone at all. There is no dialogue with the sector. Moreover, it is a shock plan that does not fulfil its own electoral programme, Podemos' electoral programme, which said that it would create 400,000 jobs and incorporate 500,000 people into the care system. And it is even more serious, because this 600 million euro shock plan does not even comply with the popular legislative initiative that we are debating today, because no reference is made to the co-sponsor. Therefore, the People's Group is presenting an amendment to the General Budgets of the State to increase the financing by 600 million euros and, in addition, wants to create a subcommission in this Congress that will give participation...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u29	Mrs. Garcia, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u30	...experts and professionals in the sector to whom the government takes away their voice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Sahuquillo García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u32	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I would like to begin by reminding the proponents of this law. Social movements such as that of disability - in this case Cermi - play an important social role in their tireless work to achieve equal opportunities. Proof of this is also this proposal for a law, the first debate in this House on social issues. This achievement must be acknowledged to its promoters and thanked to the nearly 740,000 signatories. We are aware of the frustration generated by the parliamentary handling of this legislative proposal and today we have a new opportunity to respond to the expectations generated. The aim of this Act is to amend the Law on Promotion and Self-Government and Care for Dependent Persons, mainly its article 33 on the participation of beneficiaries in the cost of benefits, in addition to article 14 on care benefits for dependent persons. As everyone knows, the Law of Dependence, promoted by the Government of Zapatero, is a historical and social milestone of our country. It is a law that we are very proud of, because it entails the recognition of the right of people who cannot use themselves to be served by the public authorities, a universal right for the whole population. This law came to respond to a need of society, making public the work of care that, fundamentally, women come and have been doing. This law also involved the implementation of the system for self-reliance and care for dependent persons, which at the time began to be implemented as planned, with satisfactory results for its beneficiaries, generating employment, economic returns and a timetable for implementation that would be gradually deployed until 2015. But as of November 2011, with the arrival of the People's Party to the Government, there were significant cuts in its funding: reduction of the minimum level, total elimination of the agreed level, radical elimination of the payment of social security quotas for non-professional caregivers, almost all women; years of People's Party government that were devastating to people in a situation of dependence on these important cuts in the funding source of the system. Yeah, those cuts are the ones that bring us here. On 10 July 2012, the Agreement for the Improvement of the System for Autonomy and Care of Dependence in the Territorial Council was approved. For improvement, they said. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, this agreement served as an excuse for Decree 20/2012, setting its definition in the objectives of reducing expenditure and setting an increase in the participation of beneficiaries in the cost of such care up to a maximum of 90% of the cost of service. Previously this limit was only provided for people who were in a residential situation and always with a liquidity forecast. Moreover, the above-mentioned resolution of improvement - as you have called it - provides that the autonomous communities or the competent administration may in turn establish a greater participation of the beneficiaries in the cost of services and economic benefits. In this way, it is contrary to the provisions of the Dependency Act, which establishes a financing model involving both the different public administrations and the beneficiaries; a model which seeks the sustainability, stability and sufficiency of the system in a continuous manner over time and which, in relation to the contributions to be made by the beneficiaries, provides that they will contribute progressively according to their economic capacity, taking into account the type of service provided to them and the cost of it. In addition, it ensures that no one will be excluded from the system because they are unable to deal with it. Even so, today it is estimated that around 80% of the funding comes from public administrations and between 18% and 20% comes from the contribution made by the beneficiaries themselves, although with obvious differences between the autonomous communities. As you well know, for my group and for this Government to reverse the cuts and return to the Dependency Act its original spirit is a top priority, and that is where we stand. For this reason, in the draft State General Budgets for 2021, within the framework of the dependency shock plan, 2354 million euros are allocated, 34.4% more than in 2020, increasing by 20% the minimum level, recovering funding from the agreed level, with 283 million euros. [[applause]] Lords of the People's Party, their decisions as a government have meant birlarla - yes, yes, birlarla - 1982 million euros of the agreed level plus another similar amount that the autonomous communities had to contribute, 4 billion euros only at this level, and the financing of 218 million euros of the social quotas of the non-professional caregivers, yes, those that the Rajoy government removed from a pen. But in keeping with the spirit of this initiative, the Government, aware of the current situation, raises, among many other issues, the need to ensure that the private contribution of users is commensurate with the actual cost of the service and its capacity to pay, without obviating the need for equal treatment of persons in a situation of dependency in the exercise of the right outside the territory in which they reside. There are approaches that we will then agree on or not, that is another issue, but I remind you that the management of the Dependency Act is transferred to the Autonomous Communities and the determination of the co-payment or participation of the recipient of the provision and service affects the expenditure incurred by the Autonomous Communities, since they are the managers of these services and services of the system. I also remind you that for seven and a half years Mr Rajoy's government has paid 80% of the cost of public administrations, when the law did not say that. Therefore, my group, during the parliamentary process, will propose improvements and modifications that also take into account the criteria of the autonomous communities, public administrations that carry out such recognition and management of services and services. We will also be aware of what is being discussed at the sectoral conference. This is institutional loyalty, ladies and gentlemen. I shall conclude now, Madam President. It would be naive not to openly raise the budgetary impact that the proposed regulatory changes will entail, primarily for the autonomous communities, in a difficult economic context such as the current one. We will therefore vote in favour of this bill and sit down with the parliamentary groups, listen to the autonomous communities in the territorial council and make the best change for the interests of the dependent people in this country. Don't doubt it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Sahuquillo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u34	We continue with the agenda item on taking into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, which is an organic body for the protection of health and fundamental rights and freedoms. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u35	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we want our first words in this initiative to be a reminder and acknowledgment of the more than 70 000 people killed by coronavirus in Spain during this pandemic and, above all, a encouragement to all those who are currently fighting the disease and to the healthcare professionals who are being left behind in this. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is inconceivable that eight months after the state of alarm, our country does not have a stable legal instrument, alternative to exceptional legislation, which gives legal certainty to all citizens and public administrations involved in the global emergency. It is surprising that at the moment in Spain we have the same legislation as when there was no pandemic. We are talking about an event that has impacted our lives, our health, our economy, but also our rule of law: a pandemic that affects the present, but will affect the future. Failure to legislate in the face of a situation of this gravity would be an absolute discharge of duties. In fact, it has been, because to the health emergency, the disdain of the Government the nation and of a parliamentary majority that supports it has added a legal emergency that has difficult explanation for the Spanish. Spain currently lacks an adequate legal instrument to deal with full constitutional guarantees, the most appropriate procedures and the measures most proportionate to the COVID-19 pandemic and, by extension, all future pandemics and health emergencies. In order to fill that huge legal vacuum, we, the main opposition party, have had to bring to this House the basic legislation of an ordinary nature, although with an organic law category, that our nation needs. It is legislation with which other countries in our environment count, either because they already had it, or because they have passed it during these months. If in Spain we do not have such legislation, it is because the Government, in the company of others, has found it easier to adopt successive alarm states, real urgent decrees or executive ministerial orders and, thus, to be able to dedicate its legislative capacities to less urgent issues, although more ideological, such as regulating the general approved, eliminating the vehiclearity of the Castilian in teaching, legislativeizing on euthanasia or agreeing with Bildu the worst budgets of the history of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen of the left-wing bench, let us say this to you loud and clear: the government you support and you yourself have not done your duty, has been able to exercise legislative laziness. They have taken the trick of alarm states and have forgotten their obligations and responsibilities as legislators. Through the declaration of the state of alarm throughout the territory of the nation, extended six times, the Government confined the Spaniards and affected their basic rights, such as those of free movement, assembly, freedom of establishment, freedom of worship or others; at first, fifteen days in fifteen, then pointing to an autonomous community indiscriminately and now with a macro-state of alarm of six months nothing less. In the end, they have turned the maximum exceptionality into a routine. Adopting the state of alarm is for you one day in the office. Its only solution: the alarm; its only contribution: the alarm. It is clear that it is not ideal, even if it may suit its ideals. Ladies and gentlemen, we need an organic law of a state nature that facilitates the management of this pandemic and of any other that may arise in the future. Any Spanish citizen is given the impression that between the state of alarm that was declared in March and this one that we now have in force, with seventeen speeds and seventeen single commands, which in itself is already a contradiction, there has to be an average term, and that average term is precisely this proposition of law. With it we propose to Parliament a genuine plan B that will end the exceptionality of legislation and establish ordinary legislation for health emergencies, so eight months later we remain unaccounted for. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain we need to equip ourselves with the best tools and do so without the easy recourse to restrict individual rights enshrined in the Constitution, because this is a situation that our charter and implementing legislation only foresees for short periods of time, even if it seems to you that you can become yourselves in stable and lasting situations. We are bringing to this House some basic national legislation that already exists, but which needs to be reformed and adapted to the situations that are being experienced. Ladies and gentlemen, when the first wave of the pandemic occurred in March, we supported the statement of the state of alarm, because, among other issues, there was a serious lack of basic material to deal with the virus. However, between May and June, when the measures to be taken were the own of a progressive descalation, it could already be seen that the declaration of the state of alarm was an excessive measure and that a legislative plan B was needed to strengthen the ordinary legislation in force with a pandemic law. We are starting from an amendment of the ordinary legislation corresponding to the General Law on Public Health, but this proposal collects and can collect much more from the experience that we are all living. One of them is the important distinction to be made between fundamental rights and economic and social activities, because it is not the same to restrict basic rights such as mobility or assembly as to limit activities, for example, through timetables, forums or sectoral closures; it is not the same. The citizen does not have to be banned from leaving the house as long as we can limit economic or social activities that do not entail the exercise of fundamental rights; it is not the same. It has become clear to me that the autonomous communities would not have needed a new state of alarm if Spain had had the measures and procedures contained in this rule of legal rank that we bring to their consideration today. It is also a real model of co-governance, as expressed in his day by President Sánchez, but that he has never even come close to practicing, more than anything because he and his Government have only been able to move among the extremists of interventionism and passivity, but never in the field of loyal collaboration and coordination with the autonomies. We ask you to support a legal, regular and safe model, but also a model of collaboration between administrations in which the health authority, which is that of each autonomous community, has the full support of the State. The state of alarm cannot be the first measure and the only, must be the last. Ladies and gentlemen, we bring to this House a legal response that not only protects the rights and freedoms of citizens, but also strengthens the state in its capacity to ensure the health and life of the Spaniards, as committed by our President Pablo Casado. That's the number one goal, health and life. They will agree with me that we have neither defeated the virus nor emerged stronger, as President Sánchez exultantly proclaimed, first, because the pandemic is still there and, second, because we have legislatively and legally emerged much weaker, without entering into the economic situation of our country, which would give for a separate chapter. This bill is a legal necessity for our country. This is a very simple proposal in its structure, because it merely amends the Law on Special Measures in Public Health of 1986 and the Law on Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction of 1998. The only purpose of these five improvements in our legislation is to unify the scope of ratification of measures taken by the public authorities in the contentious-administrative jurisdiction when they affect fundamental rights. The amendment of the Special Measures Act is necessary because the current wording does not provide for the necessary measures or specifically for the closure of areas, the prohibition of entry into and exit from such areas or the restriction of movement within them, as well as for quarantine, isolation and treatment where appropriate. Therefore, what we are introducing now are issues such as the carrying out of general preventive actions, measures for the control of the sick and those who have come into contact with them, as well as checks on entry and exit in affected or threatened areas, all in accordance with the criteria of necessity, suitability and proportionality. And why also the reform of the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction Act? Because with this change, what we seek is to address the need for measures that impose restrictions on rights to have a fast track for their control and ratification by the courts and for their entry into force to be as effective as possible. We are talking about the amendment of article 8, paragraph 6, or article 10 of the same law. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a legal change that allows self-governments to adapt those measures that they consider necessary to safeguard public health, although they involve the aforementioned restriction of rights, but without the need to resort to the state of alarm and with the maximum guarantees by subjecting the provisions to the effective control of the courts. As you can see, it is precisely the measures that have been shown to be essential in the face of an emergency caused by a highly contagious disease. We are nothing original, ladies and gentlemen, we prefer to be effective. These are the rules that are now in force in many European countries. In a country like Germany, which was also strongly decentralized, they reformed their law in March precisely to adapt to what was coming to us all, and we have not yet done anything. I will not tire of insisting on the need for genuine legal certainty on this issue. That is why we are committed to a rule which specifies the specific administrative powers which must always be exercised in accordance with the principle of proportionality. It is clear that we have a proposal which, in addition to what is necessary, is very prudent. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is not a panacea, of course, but it is the best instrument we can afford to deal with what we hope will be the final stage of this tragic pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, we appeal to the individual responsibility of each and every one of you. Whether or not to have a law like the one we bring for consideration today is neither right nor left, it is simply and simply a necessity. Turning this debate into an ideological referendum would be a mistake. We are talking about an instrument that will save lives, that will improve the well-being of the entire society and that will give legal certainty where there is no legal certainty right now. A sensible, proportionate and guaranteeing instrument...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u36	Mrs. Gamarra, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u37	...a legal umbrella that protects citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u38	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the VOX Parliamentary Group. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr Sánchez García. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u39	With all due respect, Madam President. Doña Cuca, I liked Doña Cayetana better. [[Applauds]] I don't know who wrote you your speech, but whoever wrote it doesn't know what he wrote and you don't know what he said. You don't understand anything, absolutely nothing. The PP is characterized... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u40	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u41	... for its cosmetic actions, as is the case with this legislative initiative, but the time to act in this way has passed and the PP persists in not wanting to surrender to this evidence. Not even with millions of kilos of makeup on your face can you hide your true face from the Spanish people. You are responsible for all the problems in Spain together with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applauds]] And in the dramatic situation of the coronavirus epidemic come you again with a deceptive proposition... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u42	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u43	... that it completely lacks legal and political meaning, that it does not go to the root of the problems and that it simply aspires to what you want in a persevering and tenacious way, but that you will not succeed because it has been extinguished by the will of the nation, which is to restore corrupt bipartisanism. [[Applauds]] The state of alarm declared in March was extended six times. Doubtful practice for its inconsistency with the Constitution and with the organic law governing this state, as well as that of site and exception. The sixth extension included a slight regulation of the so-called plan for descalation, with the introduction of the unusual co-governance - read article 4, which I suspect you do not know - to which you now, without legal or political criterion - I repeat - adhere; co-governance which does not exist in our laws, which is an artificial invention of the adventurous Sánchez, that the only thing he intends to do is to make an alternative use of the right to his convenience, according to the occasion, nothing more. There is no law in the constitutional system, nor is there any law that develops it - I say it for your information - so ask your advisor to inform you better and do not go up to this rostrum, please, to say nonsense like the ones we have had to hear this afternoon. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] With the descalada, which was disastrous from the health point of view, as the results clearly indicate - the result has been lethal, because we are talking about tens of thousands of dead - some autonomous communities... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u44	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Sanchez. I'm asking for silence, please. I call for silence to listen to the speaker. [[A Member of Parliament: Learn Constitutional Law]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u45	What many of you have to do is go back to college, probably all of you; dona Cuca, of course. [[Rumors.-Protests]] You have suffered judicial setbacks... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u46	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u47	...severe before the courts... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u48	Mr. Lorite, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u49	... because the measures taken by autonomous communities were suspended provisionally by such courts or were not authorized or ratified by the courts. I remind you, as you do not know, that this provision of ratification or judicial authorization for acts of singular scope already existed in the Law Regulating the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction since 2015. In August 2020, being the spokesman of his group Doña Cayetana, of grateful memory, at least for me, his party registered this proposal of law, which is a proposal of organic law that intends to reform Law 3/1986, of Special Measures in Public Health, and to make certain reforms in the Law of the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction. [[laughter and applause]] These last reforms have fallen, which you should also not know - I don't know if they are blowing it now on the phone because you speak while I speak from the rostrum -, and it has no purpose to propose because it has already been introduced into that jurisdictional law by the legal reform that brings cause of Decree-Law 16/2020. [[rumors]] Then she's left and she's idle. They haven't explained it to you either. Therefore, only the reform of Law 3/1986 on Special Measures in the Field of Public Health remains. This law provides for the possibility of measures with the same scope of material content as may be adopted in a state of alarm. It allows for the adoption of measures by all public administrations, not only the central one but also the autonomous ones and the local ones. So if you now, in an explanatory boast, which contains no legislative innovation, which does not contribute anything, what you intend to do is - as you have told us here for the rest of us, in case there is any doubt - to remedy the current state of affairs, calamitous and, as I have said, dramatic, that the autonomous communities take action in the face of this absolute chaos, you or you do not know what you are talking about, or you have really lost your judgment. [[Applauds]] That decentralization in the field of public health has given rise to this unprecedented crisis due to the number of deaths in Spain and also by comparison in the rest of the European states and, to put it mildly, in the rest of the world, I do not say it or Vox, said Le Monde, which is something like the media guru of continental progressiveism in Europe. On October 14, 2020, the correspondent for that newspaper in Madrid, who I assure you is not a person of conservative ideas, said the following: 'COVID-19: In Spain the decentralized model of public health is a failure'. The world. I don't think you read the foreign press either. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] After this, there was a deplorable clash between the national government and the government of the Community of Madrid, all on account of the famous order of the Minister of Health of 30 September 2020 approving what are called coordinated actions in public health, which was communicated to the Government of the Community of Madrid. And the Madrid Community, in execution of this order, issued another order of the Health Council to comply with it. The legislative and institutional chaos represented by the current order is such that the Community of Madrid, governed by its party, had to do two things, which are contradictory and exclusive to each other but which are the result of this absolute chaos and an order lacking the most elementary coherence that is required of a legal system. First, he executed the minister's order. Second, he challenged the Minister's order before the Dispute Chamber of the National Court. Can you explain to me how this is reducible to a rational understanding? [[Applauds.-Protests]] This is only the result of a crazy legal system and you, instead of proposing a correction of that nonsense, come and tell us here that we must give more competence to the communities according to an invented co-governance, reforming a law whose reform brings nothing. That is to say, his intervention is too much and his proposal is too much, and in addition to that, it seems to me to be misunderstanding and deceptive. What you have had to do and have not done is to confront the distortion, the prostitution that from the state of alarm has made the government that currently exercises the central executive power in Spain. That's what they had to do and they didn't! Because in the last statement of the state of alarm, which includes an extension for six months of manifest unconstitutionality, you have not even stood before the Constitutional Court to denounce that abuse by the timely submission of an appeal of unconstitutionality against that decree. [[Applauds]] The state of alarm, as developed in the organic law that regulates it, is an appeal to centralization of power at the head of the national government; read, Madam Speaker of the proposing group, section 9.1 of that law and you will understand what I am saying. It is an appeal to such a thing, then, the correct compliance, the use of that institution, would be enough to remedy this state of affairs, but, of course, we give ourselves up because it turns out that, having the legal instrument, what we have is a Government that does what it does is to prostitute and abuse it, and in the face of that abuse and legal prostitution you calm down and propose this set of nonsense - I have to say it because it is so - that you also have a deceptive will. We will vote against such a foolish and idle proposition. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u50	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo has the floor for a replica shift. [[A Member of the European Parliament: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u51	Thank you, President. Your Honor, for what you have told us, having sent us a video would have been enough, just as you have done with the amendments to the general state budget. [[applause]] [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] Your Honor, prepotence, machism and lack of legal rigour, that is all your exposure, all, that I will tell you for what it has served you: to discredit yourself and to cover up your lack of measure, common sense and legal rigour, if any. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Having said that, Mr Sánchez, I believe that the Spaniards deserve a little bit of seriousness, a little bit of respect and that we know how to live up to the circumstances. We are talking about more than 70,000 Spaniards who have died, we are talking about people who are in a hospital's ICU today, we are talking about health care providers who are exhausted today, and the least they deserve is that here in this House today there is a little respect among all of us, the least we deserve. [[Applauds]] From there, given your presentation, I will only ask you one question in relation to the position against which you have raised VOX today: So, what do you propose? Nothing? [[Protests]] Look, you move between anarchy and just sit out of everything. If the government has directed us to legal chaos, the paralysis in which you are installed would plunge us into a health anarchy, and this party has a task to carry out: to promote legislative initiatives that will provide instruments to those who today are at the forefront of this pandemic in the autonomous communities. What they need is for the third power, the Legislature, to live up to the circumstances and equip the rule of law with the instruments they need. That's why we get up every day; you still don't know why. [[Applauds]] Of course, after the show you gave here today we have been made clear that it is not precisely to work in the fight against the pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez García has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u53	Thank you. With the venom. Doña Cuca, you corroborate with your intervention that still doesn't understand anything at all. His intervention is orphaned by any argument. The only thing you do is just tell me that I'm a sexist. I think the sexist is you. [[Protests]] Anyway, it gives me exactly what you think of me and whatever you are. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u54	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u55	I don't come here to talk about it in this gallery, I come here to talk about serious things, which you don't do or propose. I'll explain it to you. In Spanish law there are two rules, the two organic laws: the Organic Law of the states of alarm, exception and site and the Organic Law 3/1986, which I mentioned in my previous intervention. These two laws overlap with regard to the possibility of measures with material content that may be equal. In law it is not possible that the rules are idle or sober, they must be interpreted together, in a systematic way, in order to give each of them a meaning. If the Organic Lawmaker in 1981 enacted the Law Regulating the States of Alarm, Exception and Site and in 1986 enacted the Organic Law on Special Measures in the Field of Public Health was - we must presume and we must make an interpretation that saves that legislative will - because he wanted to dispose of different things. Otherwise, it should be concluded that the legislator was wrong, and that is a hermeneutic criterion in the interpretation that no accepted legal methodology agrees to consent to. Therefore, the Organic Law regulating states of alarm, exception and site, I repeat to you once again, is an appeal that in these critical situations qualified as alarm, exception and site there be centralized powers to combat the critical situation. I am going to read the ninth article, point one, which I have not read before although I have said that you did not know it; it gives me the impression that you still do not know it, so I am going to present it with your reading: 'By declaring the state of alarm all the Civil Authorities of the Public Administration of the territory affected by the declaration, the members of the Police Corps of the Autonomous Communities and of the Local Corporations, and the other officials and workers serving them, will remain under the direct orders of the competent Authority - do you understand it now or not? - as long as it is necessary for the protection of persons, goods and places, being able to impose extraordinary services on them by their duration or nature'. What we propose is that this article and this law as a whole be applied in the part that regulates the state of alarm properly and in accordance with the Constitution, that for this there is this organic law that develops a constitutional institution, because the states of alarm, exception and site are regulated by the Constitution, as it cannot be otherwise because they are institutions that cause exception to the application of the laws and that are exceptional by the facts. So that is what we propose, and in view of that, which is in summary the position of greatest fidelity to the Constitution, Mrs Gamarra, Members of the Socialist Party and government allies, the Government has done what it has done has been to abuse that state of alarm, and it has done so three times already, on the last occasion, as I said before, introducing an inadmissible six-month extension of all points and making a universal delegation of powers in all the presidents of the autonomous communities, which is a fraud against the law itself regulating the state of alarm, among other vices of unconstitutionality. So if that legal instrument, which is an organic law and which is a developing law of the Constitution, were to be properly used, we would be in the presence of a useful instrument to combat an epidemic like that that plagued Spain and not this that you propose that, I repeat, it is a set of nonsense that all you do is pretend to give more competence to the autonomous communities. Nothing more. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u57	Thank you very much, President. We discussed the adoption of the initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group to deal with health crises such as those caused by COVID-19 without having to resort to alarm statements in any case and in any event, and to be able to do so with the legal instruments provided for in particular in the field of health, proposing for this purpose the amendment of Organic Law 3/1986, on Special Measures in the Field of Public Health, and procedurally the Law on the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction. In this way, the initiative is presented as a response to the undefined legal measures in force at the disposal of the health authorities when they intend to limit or restrict fundamental rights and their recipients are not individually identified, a defect attributed to the last paragraph of article 3 of Organic Law 3/1986. The initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group is also presented as an alternative to statements by states of alarm which, in their view, have or are indiscriminate cuts in fundamental rights by failing to maintain due proportion and balance with the protection of the health of citizens; states of alarm which, in their opinion, have also involved spurious negotiations, whether mediated or not by parliamentary groups, with and between the autonomous authorities for the management of the health crisis and its social and economic consequences in their respective territories. And in order to overcome these, in the opinion of the People's Party, the maculae of the state of alarm, we intend to amend article 3 of Organic Law 3/1986. (The Vice-President, Mr Rodríguez Gómez de Celis, took the Chair. Ladies and gentlemen, on this first issue we can agree that it would be appropriate to improve the wording of this article to give legal certainty to the approach of health crises such as that of the COVID-19 from the normative and institutional areas of health and health and various to those of the state of alarm and thus to be able to avoid contradictory judicial pronouncements such as those we have experienced, based on the alleged sufficiency or inadequacy, according to the case and judicial body, of the legal coverage to limit or restrict fundamental rights when their recipients are not individually identified, which is precisely the situation that has led to the declaration of the current state of alarm at the uncertainty caused by the different judicial interpretation of the said article 3 in order to decree general preventive measures against the Community transmission of the COVID. However, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, to argue that the change they advocate, as stated in the explanatory statement, is to avoid limitations and restrictions on fundamental rights of people we believe is incorrect. We believe that it is wrong to describe, as is also done in the explanatory statement, in spite of political negotiations, the negotiations between different health authorities, including the Ministry of Health, and between parliamentary groups with the executive branch on the scope of the measures to be taken, given the importance of them in the citizenry from a health, economic and social point of view. I already know that for some technocracy is the natural state of things, but for the Basque Parliamentary Group it is an ideology that we do not share. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of Organic Law 386 - let us be clear - would not in any way mean a better balance between the fundamental rights of the person and the right to collective health than that which can be achieved by the state of alarm, nor will it imply the limitation of that which you call, at least in the explanatory statement, political negotiations and which is nothing else, as I have said, that dialogue within a democratic system on measures of all kinds and intensity with direct affection for citizenship and dialogue also, as well as, among the various health authorities competent for better coordination, collaboration, information and transmission of information in order to deal with health events in which the health and life of people are at risk. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, sometimes by reading certain explanatory statements, it might seem that you yourselves wish to mislead a proposal that could objectively be considered by some of your legal and politically biased foundations. With regard to the second part of the initiative, which concerns the reform of the Law on Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction, we are presented with a text that does not take into account, as has already been indicated, the amendments that we introduced a month ago through the second final provision of Law 3/2020, in the contentious jurisdiction, which addressed the matter of the authorization and judicial ratification of the measures of the health authorities when they involve limitations or restrictions on fundamental rights and are intended for plurim collectivity or individuals individually identified, as well as for a judicial procedure to be followed for this purpose. We now have amendments on the same subject, although more focused on the differentiation of judicial powers insofar as the measures adopted limit or restrict fundamental rights, a proposal which is initially indisputable with the reform that we are now carrying out a month ago, and - I must add - not to share by our parliamentary group the legitimacy of the popular action that is being advocated. It should also be noted that the preventive judicial review of the measures of the health authorities when limiting fundamental rights for unidentified individuals is sub judicious in the Constitutional Court through the approach of a question of unconstitutionality by the Dispute-Administrative Chamber of the High Court of Justice of Aragon for the possible violation of articles 106.1 and 117.3 of the Constitution, considering that the contentious jurisdiction invades the scope of the self-guard of the Administration through a devolutive veto that should only be articulated in the context of a contradictory procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u58	Mr. Legarda, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u59	I'm finishing up. One second.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u60	It must be over now.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u61	We therefore believe that this part of the reform should be left parked pending the ruling of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u62	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u63	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mrs Gamarra, first of all I would like to show you my solidarity with the disrespect you have received from this rostrum. [[Applauds]] You know that I have great respect for you as a person and that I will never say that you say nonsense or anything like that. I will explain to you why we are going to vote that no, I will explain it to you from the legitimate discrepancy that has any parliamentary debate and, of course, I assure you that I will do it without any pre-potence and without shouting. Look, Mr. Casado came up here to the rostrum and told the President of the Government that the government did not approve his plan B, and that with his plan B - said Mr. Casado - the state of alarm should no longer be declared. I, who, as you know, am a lawyer, was wondering: how is this possible? Because I read Article 116 of the Constitution and I find that the suspension of fundamental rights is only possible through the declaration of states of alarm, emergency and siege. I thought: Well, in the People's Party there are great jurists - many of them are friends of mine - so they will present me with a legal vice. Frankly, I was looking forward to seeing your plan B and, of course, when I found it, I honestly have to tell you - I also say it with all due respect - that it has disappointed me very much. It has disappointed me because things like house confinement, like hourly confinement - what we call curfew - are only possible in our Constitution by the state of alarm. To explain to me clearly, the state of alarm is plan A. When it is necessary to confine, in our Constitution it is not possible if it is not with the state of alarm. However, you in your law - in my opinion technically imperfect - mix all deprivations of ambulatory liberty saying that this can be summed up in an administrative law. In my opinion, fundamental rights and public freedoms cannot be restricted in an administrative law; it can only be restricted by the state of alarm, because if not at best what you are trying to do is a state of alarm with another name, that is, that we will meet with a simple, simple administrative law, with citizens confined in their homes, very quiet because they say: Well, but at least it is not the state of alarm. But if they're still the same, with the curfew, without being able to go out on the street, you call it whatever you call it. Well, it better be with the state of alarm, which has some guarantees. And that's where we're going. Since it is impossible to solve the problem that I raised, it is impossible to talk about the suspension of fundamental rights without declaring the state of alarm, you use a grammatical trap, a semantic trap that the legislator has already used before and that the Constitutional Court has already said is unconstitutional. One cannot distinguish between deprivation and restriction of rights. There is nothing but the full exercise of rights or the suspension of rights, there is no third gender. There is no intermediate way between the full exercise of rights, even if it is conditional on administrative legislation, and the suspension or deprivation of rights. This is the error, the trap to which his proposal for a law departs, which distinguishes between deprivation and restriction. Do you remember when someone wanted to distinguish between detention and detention? The Constitutional Court said that this could not be done, that between freedom and detention had not been intermediate. But the worst of all is that you lower a step in the level of guarantees of the citizen, allow the executive power to get into the fundamental rights, which is the hard core of Spanish democracy and the rule of law, without guarantees, without sufficient control. They end the state of alarm and therefore Mr Sánchez will no longer have to come here to explain; they prevent, as has happened with certain groups in this House, the constitutional court from going to the Constitutional Court with an appeal of unconstitutionality by certain parliamentary groups, not even the Ombudsman could analyse this circumstance because there are no longer any states of alarm. You use a double level of warranty that is lower than the one we have now. When he is deprived of ambulatory liberty, we will go to the judicial review of the litigation judge. That is, fifty different responses for the whole of the national territory; an unfeasible measure which, as you have already been reminded, is also contrary to the agreements reached in Law 3/2020, in which we agreed that it was the higher courts of justice and the National Court that adopted this decision because, in this way, we were going to have uniform jurisprudence throughout the national territory, and that it was not in the court of the contentious-administrative in which each one says what he thinks. But the worst of all is not this; the worst of all is that when you get into the right of assembly, in the distances, in the closure of establishments, in the rest of the rights that are not ambulatory freedom, what judicial control do you claim? None; later. That is to say, the Executive declares the closure of the establishments, which cannot meet more than six people, that the tanatories or celebrations cannot be attended by so many people, that the social distance is a certain one, that one cannot smoke in the open if the social distance is not respected, and it turns out that the one who is annoyed has to go to the contentious-administrative recourse, to a procedure for the protection of fundamental rights. Do you know what it takes? I tell you, between six months and a year and then the resources. The Executive Branch washes its hands and says: phenomenal! They have dropped a step in the guarantees. Your Honor, these gentlemen here are going to vote that not because it comes from you, because Mr Sánchez with his bill would be delighted; he would be delighted, since he would not have to come here, he could get into the fundamental rights of the citizens without having a response from these citizens and look at some autonomous communities. You say that they have not changed the legislation; they have changed it, at the initiative of Citizens, when we negotiate the sixth extension of the state of alarm. [[Applauds]] We have established the declaration of coordinated actions, five declarations of coordinated actions have already been taken. We're changing the jurisdiction of the TSJs. And what have we done this morning? To present a new proposal for a law in which we call for the declaration of coordinated actions to be judicially monitored by the National Court and, in this way, there will be no autonomous community that can disobey the declaration of coordinated actions of the Minister. We also call for the strengthening of the High Inspection of the State and, finally, for the extension of the state of alarm to be limited to 30 days, which is the deadline laid down in Law 4/1981 for states of emergency. As you can see, this is plan B. There is a plan A, which is the state of alarm when it is to be confined; there is a plan B, when it is true simply with these measures that are already being taken by the autonomous communities, always with judicial control. And - I conclude, Mr President - you will forgive me that, with all due respect, I tell you that your proposal for a law is not valid either as plan Z. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u65	Good afternoon again. Ladies and gentlemen, we must confess that, from a health point of view, the initiative could be interesting. What you do in the section of the Public Health Act to detail, in accordance with European legislation, quick and effective responses, such as confinement or quarantine, is true that it has the interesting appeal of addressing and renewing the subject matter. It is worth remembering that the Organic Law on Public Health is of 1986 and that the only recent amendment that exists is the Royal Decree of 2020. Therefore, as I will finally tell you, it is worth considering whether this law, which has been in force for more than thirty - four years, needs to be amended. Indeed, some instruments may be interesting, but in your speech you raised some issue such as that the state of alarm affects fundamental rights, and these measures also affect them. I believe that we cannot be innocent and think that these measures do not affect fundamental rights and that it is not a debate between the Public Health Act and the state of alarm because, in both cases, there is an impairment of citizens' rights. I therefore call on you in this area of health to have some kind of journey in the future. But it is true that the second point of his proposal, the one concerning the most legal part, obviouss a question that they have told you before and that I suppose it is because of the reason for having presented this long ago. The Commission of Justice has already endorsed and brought forward this reform, which has resulted in competition in the higher courts of justice rather than in the courts of the administrative and litigation courts. Therefore, the amendment or new wording that you propose in this legislation is meaningless; legislation that, on the other hand, continues to abound in that of judicializing political, administrative and institutional decisions. Nor do we think this is the way. You will understand that it is not I who defend this path; and the few hairs that I have left come to my finger when I hear Mr Bal say that this would even have to be done by the National Court. It is clear that the National Court perhaps needs to rethink its existence and not give it more powers. In any case, we understand that it is true that there is a pending debate on the Organic Law on Public Health, but perhaps it would be better to do so after the pandemic, assessing exactly how it has evolved and what challenges a State needs to ensure survival in this pandemic. Therefore, we have not just seen the legal framework that you have put forward, which is already out of date with the latest rules adopted. However, before I finish my speech, Mrs Gamarra, I am not going to defend you in your ideological thesis but in your postulates and in your right to put here what is needed. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, I have to tell you that parliamentary respect does not consider any of the speeches and proposals put forward by a political group to be foolish. The brutal ideological discrepancy that I can have with the PP will never make me say that what the PP poses is nonsense. I therefore believe that this is a lesson that we should all take in this House to make a somewhat more useful policy for citizens. Mr Sánchez, in the legal lessons he has given us here - he certainly has the capacity and the knowledge that is superior to mine - a final point has been left, and it is that the law is interpretable and for show I can put a button: the same facts in the National Court or in the Supreme Court have had totally different sentences. Therefore, the law is interpretable; the version that Mr Sánchez makes is his and perhaps that of many jurists, but surely, sure, that neither Mr Sánchez nor Mrs Gamarra's are any nonsense. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u66	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u67	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Since the World Health Organization declared the epidemic of COVID as a pandemic on 11 March and approved the declaration of the state of alarm as a result, we have been discussing actively and passively, although for different reasons each group, the need to articulate equally guaranteed, faster, flexible and resolvable instruments for the containment of the epidemic, without declaring the state of alarm and without having to be under the control of the judges constantly. Today we are immersed in the so-called second wave of this pandemic, and the Government wants to continue without amending the legislation to equip us with those other instruments. We have had to see how excessive and arbitrary use was made of the law regulating the state of alarm, limiting and restricting fundamental rights and freedoms. In spite of this, in the absence of other legal instruments, we are responsible for adopting the latest state of alarm, which will be extended six months in time, although this time with management capacity in the pandemic of the autonomous communities as delegated authorities, unlike the first stage of the pandemic in which we were imposed the sole command of the State and the militarization of health management, which is absolutely unnecessary and inefficient. But you know perfectly well that our model does not pass through membership of this State; moreover, our conviction and obligation is to work and fight for the Catalan Republic, but, unfortunately, until it is a reality, we are limited by its legislation, which has repeatedly proved harmful to the management of reality in Catalonia. In the same vein, you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, have not been able to agree on legislative reforms that would protect and give more guarantees to the exercise of fundamental rights; even the implementation of the measures adopted has been clumsy and inefficient: chaos in SEPE in order to receive aid; benefits that are not being paid since 12 August; charging fees and taxes to self-employed people who, despite having closed businesses and having no income, continue to pay; they do not paralyze evictions... You know what's going on? That our people have the right to eat and have the right to decent housing in conditions of habitability and guaranteed basic supplies, and that is where we will not support any reform that does not grant our Health Administration, the Generalitat de Catalunya, all competences in public health. Despite all this, the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia had to request, together with other territories of the State such as Euskadi, the declaration of the state of alarm in order to guarantee the health and life of the people living in Catalonia, since, as we have said, we had no other legal instrument for this. The PSOE government and the United We may not have changed the Health Act, which would have allowed us to manage the pandemic without declaring a state of alarm that limits and restricts fundamental rights and freedoms. We still ask, but good management is also demonstrated by the data. The PP, which rules in Madrid and so much claims to defend the right to life, is letting its people die with this pandemic, while the PSOE looks elsewhere. And if not, look at the data published this Sunday, November 15: the number of deaths in Madrid from July 4 to November 12 is 346, while in Catalonia is 85 per million inhabitants. We were aware of these data last Sunday because, so far, Madrid had hidden the real figures, while in Catalonia we have always, always, been transparent and we were the first to give the real data in residences and hospitals, because that is what citizens expect and deserve; transparency and good management of their governments. A difference that is evident with the policies that each Government implements. The data so support it; Catalonia, with the councils led by Esquerra Republicana with responsibility and management in this pandemic, is implementing left-wing policies with results that demonstrate a much more efficient health management, putting people at the center of politics; while in Madrid, with right-wing policies they are doing a poor management of the pandemic, showing that their people's health matters little. In addition to all this, in Catalonia we are doing an economic superpower with more aid to reduce the economic impact that the pandemic is causing, doing everything in our hands, but, unfortunately, it is insufficient. That's why we demand the government of the PSOE and the United We can have a rescue plan, it's the state that has the resources and is doing absolutely nothing in this second wave of the pandemic. The Generalitat de Catalunya, despite all the limitations and lack of resources, is covering all the holes of a State that is not doing its job. This can't go on like this. The state is leaving the people of this country behind and we demand that rescue plan, as all European countries are already doing. Our vice president, Pere Aragonès, sent a letter to the government demanding responsibilities and they have not responded. All this serves us to reaffirm our convictions; we want a State of our own to help and serve our citizens. We cannot look elsewhere, as long as we do not get the Catalan republic we want, it is necessary for the state to put its batteries in place now. That is why we will vote negatively on this consideration and warn the Government: work, assume their responsibilities, do not wash their hands and take the necessary measures to protect the most affected sectors of this pandemic because the opportunities are over. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u68	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u69	The People's Group is presenting us with a proposal for a law which somehow attempts to justify that the Government used the state of alarm - as the People's Group understands - abusively, fraudulently - it has been said here today, it was said during the state of alarm itself - to cut down on the fundamental rights of the Spaniards and prevent their free exercise. This proposal for a law highlights the contradictions and inconsistencies of the People's Group, it is a kind of support and not amend it. A posteriori, they intend to create a legal framework that we were told in May that already existed. The right has passed the pandemic by criticizing the lack of legal guarantees in the health measures adopted and, of course, the impairment of fundamental rights; however, it brings us a proposal that, among other measures, eliminates much of the judicial and political control that exists today over health measures when they affect fundamental rights. This debate requires, first of all, to demand that the right to health be a fundamental right in our Constitution, rather than being defined today in article 43 as a mere guiding principle of social policy, because it is protecting health as it protects the economy, employment and social welfare and not the other way around. For the United Nations We can, for this coalition government, health is a fundamental right and that is why we have prioritized the right to health over any other right. That is why this Government has consistently exercised a weighting of essential rights, bringing the legal and political measures taken at all times closer to the social reality of the pandemic. Therefore, the legal measures adopted through the state of alarm never damaged fundamental rights, but protected them as provided for in the Constitution and with the instruments established in the Constitution. However, the People's Group is bringing us a reform that expressly proposes to nullify the guarantees that exist for fundamental rights right now in the law. It eliminates the intervention of the courts in order to authorize or ratify judicially the measures adopted under the health legislation, when these measures are considered urgent and necessary for public health and when they involve limitation or restriction of fundamental rights; and, in fact, they do not define to us what these restrictions or limitations of fundamental rights are. The People's Group proposes that judicial authorization be required only when we are faced with an absolute deprivation of those rights, but not when limitations or restrictions are applied; and fundamental rights cannot be divided, they are fundamental rights that must be fully protected at all times. What is the People's Group proposing to us? That Mrs Ayuso's health authority, for example, may limit or restrict fundamental constitutional rights of persons without prior judicial review or passing through the Parliament of the Community of Madrid. In other words, the class confinement that Mrs Ayuso established in the popular neighborhoods could now be adopted by a mere agreement of an official of the Health Council without the need for prior judicial or parliamentary authorization. For months, the People's Group told us that the state of alarm was not necessary because the Organic Law on Public Health allowed the pandemic control measures to be taken that were intended with the state of alarm; a state of alarm that, according to the People's Group, responded to the intrinsic evil of the Government that wanted to put an end to the rule of law. However, they bring us a reform of the Public Health Act by extending that Act to introduce into it the provisions contained in the rules dictated by the declaration of state of alarm. That is, obsessive rejection of the state of alarm contemplated in the Constitution. [[Applauds]] The PP has devoted itself during the first state alarm to disheartening constitutionalist experts. They insisted that it was the only instrument that allowed the Government to maintain sole command in front of the pandemic, but you indicated that no, that there was an alternative to the alarm state. He lied to the Secretary-General of the People's Party, Mr. García Aegean, and the Deputy Secretary of Communication, Mr. Montesinos, when they cited in May three laws that, as they explained at the time, were currently in force and with them could be solved what did not solve the alarm state: the Public Health Act, the National Security Act and the Citizens' Protection Act. On the last two I abstain, because we do not yet know what the current regulation of citizen protection has to do with a pandemic, but on the Public Health Act explain to us how they proposed to replace the state of alarm with the Public Health Act and now they bring us a reform telling us that the Act was not working. What they present to us shows that, of course, neither the Public Health Act nor the other two laws, as I have said, mention any limitation on the freedom of movement. Therefore, today the PP is obliged to propose an amendment to Article 3 to incorporate this possible limitation of movements and, in addition, includes it by eliminating judicial and legislative controls. That is, the only instrument that allowed the Government of Spain to fight against COVID, save lives and defend the public health of all citizens was the state of alarm, and the PP has maintained its refusal to support the extensions of the state of alarm since May in Congress. We are radically opposed to a government official being able to agree on a general restriction of fundamental freedoms and rights in the case of a pandemic, which is what you are proposing, because that does not respect the division of powers of a rule of law and because, frankly, at this point, the excuse you are proposing is nothing more than an excuse, an attempt to change the past, is an obvious self-accusation of your responsibility. I wish Spanish democracy would ever forgive you for lying to the Spaniards. Now you're accrediting yourself, but don't try to justify your lies a posteriori, withdraw this proposition. We will vote against and, please, for the first time make an opposition that is loyal to the Government of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Santiago. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Prieto Nieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u71	Thank you, President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to take this opportunity in plenary to remind all the victims of COVID in our country, as well as the people who are currently fighting the disease. I would also like to send all my support and that of the Socialist Group to their families and friends. We know and are aware of the hard times they are going through, and we want to send you a message of courage and strength. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Gamarra, you don't realize that when you feed those who are at your end, you can end up devouring them. You say Spain lacks legal instruments. Your statement is wrong, Mrs Gamarra, but it is also an amendment to the whole of it not only to the ministers and ministers of the Government, but also to yours, among others to Mrs Ana Pastor; it is not true what you say, Mrs Gamarra. You have overreacted because you have to attack the government, but it should be noted that there is legislation drawn up over many years. It's fair to recognize it because it's not all worth it. Not everything justifies the apocalyptic vision that you do every time you can. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing an exceptional and unprecedented moment. The pandemic caused by COVID is the most serious health crisis our country has had in the last century. We are facing an invisible but devastating rival, a virus that is claiming lives all over the world. On 14 March, the Government was forced to take the most restrictive measures that are remembered in our country in times of peace with the sole objective of saving lives. To this end, a constitutional instrument, the state of alarm, developed in the 1981 Act, was used. It was about confining the citizens of our country in their homes; it was about completely stopping the non-essential activity of our economy; it was about doing everything in our power to prevent the death of many of our compatriots and to protect health and life, measures aimed at stopping the blow of the contagions that suddenly began to multiply. In March we were the country whose measures were most drastic, but today many other States are carrying out these measures which they did not see fit. Thus, the Government decreed the first state of alarm and requested this Congress to approve the strictly necessary extensions, guaranteeing parliamentary control at all times in addition to judicial control. That is, putting light and stenographers and arguments to a measure rarely taken before. It was an approval that cost - you know it well - a lot of government sweat and effort and that, as you well remember, you did not support last time either in June or October. [[Applauds]] By the way, I would like to highlight the exercise of responsibility during the confinement and the state of alarm carried out by the Spanish and Spanish. I want to remind you quickly of what your ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party said a few months ago. His leader, Mr. Casado, urged the president of the government to put an end to what he called medieval confinements. More recently - just over a month ago - the President of the Community of Madrid, Mrs Ayuso, called the Government authoritarian for setting the state of alarm in that community. And today, by chance, they bring for consideration by this House an organic law that aims to extend the possibility of house confinements to the discretion of the autonomous communities. In short, ladies and gentlemen, they are trying to do what is and should continue to be exceptional. You are correcting yourselves along the way and thereby eliminating much of parliamentary control. For the Socialist Group this path is wrong. Our Constitution and our legal system have sufficient legal instruments for these exceptional, regulated and guaranteed situations. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is going to vote against the adoption of the bill by the People's Group. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, this is not the time to distract attention from what is really important. We have a Ministry of Health and a Government giving everything they have to tackle this situation promptly. We recently received the great news of the proximity of the vaccine and epidemiological data in our country are beginning to stabilize gradually. At the same time, economic data is beginning to draw a recovery that citizens need as much as this vaccine. This difficult time for Spain requires a high level of attention from your public representatives, as well as from you, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party. It requires someone to look beyond confrontation and shortsightedness to wear down the Government. His big mistake - his big mistake - is to want to take electoral advantage of this pandemic. Be true loyal and patriots, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group; support the Government at this very complicated moment, support measures aimed at overcoming the virus, unleash the renewal of the constitutional bodies and, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, vote in favour of the most necessary, more expansive and more social General State Budgets in our recent history. [[Applauds]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. If you'll allow me the advice, in the future this will be better in the eyes of Spanish and Spanish than being seen as the party that opposed recovery. Over time, history will pass a bill to those who do not understand what is necessary: consensus. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs Prieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u73	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group concerning the application and development of article 3 of the Spanish Constitution by adopting the necessary measures to ensure the duty to know the Spanish, the right to use it and its application to natural, legal persons and to all public administrations and institutions of the Kingdom of Spain. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u74	Thank you very much. Mr President, I come to defend this non-law proposal of January, tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group, as a citizen who speaks, thinks, prays and counts in Catalan. My mother tongue is the Catalan, sister of the Spanish, both of which belong to Catalonia, as a shared treasure and a vertebrate element of a historical reality that is our nation, Spain. No Administration or individual can disregard the common language of all, Spanish, and less discriminate against it. Hence the need for strict compliance with the constitutional mandate that all Spaniards have the right to use Spanish or Spanish and the duty to know it, an issue that we are debating here today. It's not about differences, it's about unity. It's not about uniformity, it's about wealth. It's not imposition, it's freedom. It's not about discrimination, it's about rights. In short, it goes from constitutional and normative compliance, and I would say more, to a higher task that transcends us. No one can deny the political attack that has been suffering for decades the use of the common language in too many autonomous communities ruled by one or another sign, with the complacent gaze of the central governments, as a virus that attacks one of the basic pillars of Spanish citizenship, of those simpler, humbler men and women who have the Spanish language as an intangible but irrefutable heritage and who, in some regions, have the fortune to share with the other of their own. It is a flow to preserve, a common language that, although it is a configuring element of the nation as a historical fact, is not so from the differential fact, but from the integrative grandeur, from the immense mestization that transcends the natural question of the national political community, and in our case goes beyond, being in turn a vertebrate element of a grand concept that is Hispanicity. More than five hundred million Spanish-speaking people around the world have such a language as their own, with which, in turn, we are united in the bonds of imperishable brotherhood. Despite this, the great historical reality of the Spanish language, even with a French language category, with which for centuries we have understood each other throughout the national territory and beyond the overseas, the great nationalist gurus of the right and left have chosen to despise Spanish and use one of the most intimate vernacular languages, raising them to a category of differential fact which at times sterilely justifies a hypothetical nation, which in no way can be, because no nation has been the fruit of a contractual will, since it would attack the very essence of it. [[Applauds]] It is also a flagrant attack on the citizen as the object and destination of the exercise of the right to choose in freedom, for what we are suffering in many regions is linguistic immersion, which is the basis of obedience to disintegrating nationalist creeds, denying and even prohibiting Spanish as a vehicle language. It serves as an example not only in Catalonia but Galicia itself. That is why we cannot accept the malicious and lukewarm amendment of the People's Party, which seems to be drafted in the Plaza del Obradoiro. And also - as I do not - I stick to the latest developments in this House, for example, the reform of Mrs Celaá's Education Act and the government's pacts with segregationist and nationalist groups. But we already have the historical experience and the temporary distance enough to discern the path and constitutional development and, with it, fine-tune, accommodate and instruct us about what has happened since the birth of the Spanish Constitution and draw conclusions; I will draw two. The first is that we are aware of the enclave of article 3 in the preliminary title of the constitutional text, which prevents it circumstantially from instigating the right recognized through article 53 of the Magna Charter, but precisely this - being in that title containing the general or structural principles of our constitutional order - confers special protection on it through the aggravated constitutional reform that establishes for that preliminary title article 168 of the Spanish Constitution. And a second one is that by a deputy of the people with legal knowledge we were reminded a short time ago that, specifically, the ruling of the Constitutional Court 48/2003 excludes Spain as a militant democracy. [[The lady]] This is because, unlike most of the rest of Western democracies, the basic foundations of the Constitution, such as the survival of the nation or even of the common language, the right to education - a natural right that parents have to educate their children - or - it is more - the disappearance of the system of freedoms itself - I do not say, they say - are something that can be at the mercy of a circumstantial, transient and ephemeral majority, as is the case in the present Parliament, without prejudice to the reinforced protection already mentioned, and do not doubt that this will be done by progressive forces on one side with complicit quietism on the other, possibly. Interpretation, I insist, of the Constitutional Court, although I doubt it was the will of the constituent. Hence the importance of strengthening those mechanisms that guarantee rights, the right of citizens to use either language before any Administration in the respective community with full legal effectiveness. I end up with a distinction that will please the Marxist deputies of the government coalition because of their author: one thing is abstract freedom and another thing is real freedom; one thing is formal freedoms and another thing is real and concrete freedoms that interest the Spaniards. And if it were not, we would go directly to the suicide, debilitation, destruction and annihilation of Spain as a nation and as a historical subject, and VOX is not willing to do so. Hence our proposal to defend the common language throughout the national territory. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u75	Thank you, Mr. Aizcorbe. In defence of the amendment made by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is neither a uniform reality nor a sum of realities that are faced and incompatible with one another in the territorial, cultural or linguistic sphere, as the independence forces want to see. Spain is not that, ladies and gentlemen. Spain is diverse and plural, a nation united in diversity, which is not what differentiates us, but precisely what defines and enriches us as a nation. A manifestation of this cultural richness is the plurality of Spanish languages, from the Spanish language, which is the official language throughout the territory and which speak more than six hundred million people in the world, to the Galician, Basque, Catalan or other co-official languages, which are also Spanish and which have their legal framework in article 3 of our Constitution, in the different statutes of autonomy, but also in the doctrine of the Constitutional Court and in the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, which have defined in their judgments the scope and limits of the use of the different linguistic modalities that exist in our nation. And what did they tell us? We have been told, among other things, that Spanish is the official language of all public authorities and throughout the national territory, and that all Spaniards have a duty to know it; that the other Spanish languages will also be official in their respective autonomous communities if their autonomous statutes so establish. In other words, the delimiting criterion of the different languages is the territorial criterion and also that of the so-called linguistic conjunction, that is, that of coexistence between the two co-official languages. But we have also been told that co-officiality must always be subject to a pattern of balance and equality between the two official languages so that none of them has privileged treatment over the other, precisely in order to preserve bilingualism; that language rights are of the citizens, not of the administrations, and that while the legislator can take measures to correct situations of historical imbalance in the co-official language, these measures must always be proportionate, and the fact that a co-official language can be used as a vehicle for teaching can never mean that the Castilian ceases to be so. For this reason, the Supreme Court established 25% of the minimum proportion of teaching hours given in Spanish. Another thing is that this is not being done, but it is up to the Government to guarantee it. Well, Mr de VOX, although we share your concern, the text of your initiative does not accurately reflect that co-officiality of languages and that doctrine of the Constitutional Court, which they do, by the way, in their amendment No. 501 to the new Education Act, where they say things different from what this proposal contains. They should be cleared up. That is why we have tabled an amendment which seeks to urge the Government simply to ensure the application of the Constitution, the statutes of autonomy and to ensure the effective application of the doctrine of the Constitutional Court and the judgments of both the Supreme Court and the courts of justice, thereby ensuring that Spanish remains a vehicle language in the educational system throughout the national territory, in Catalonia and throughout the territory, ladies and gentlemen. That contemplates everything you have to contemplate. What cannot be done is a partial and biased interpretation of the doctrine of the Constitutional Court which, as you know, has the value of being judged. Don't mess with the independenceists and this government. If the Constitution is to be defended, it must be complied with in its entirety and must assume the whole doctrine of the Constitutional Court, the one that likes the most and the one that likes the least, not just the one that is appropriate. That is why, Mr de VOX, if you assume all that doctrine of the Constitutional Court, you should have had no hesitation in accepting our amendment. Now, if you don't want to assume it - you won't accept it, we've already been told - then it's going to cost you a lot to explain it. If VOX had accepted our amendment, it would have been the Socialist Group that should have had no problem and no inconvenience in accepting it. Look at what you are doing them because, if the Socialist Group had not accepted that amendment, it would mean that this Government does not want to apply either the Constitution or the judgments of the courts. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that the greatest enemies of languages are those who impose them, but also those who prohibit them, and that is what some are claiming to do these days. You Socialists are agreeing, because you are not only changing budgets for approaching prisoners, but you are also changing budgets for banishing the Castilian from the Catalan educational system, treating it as if it were a foreign language, and that is what the independenceists claim. And I tell you that we are not going to allow it and we are going to appeal to the Constitutional Court and to the bodies that are necessary for the Spanish to remain a vehicle language throughout the national territory. Keep it clear. I'm finishing up. Socialist gentlemen, I don't know where you want to go. You see how hard they are criticizing many of their colleagues, such as Alfonso Guerra, and they are even collecting signatures against them, but I assure you that we are not going to allow you to want to build new walls between Spaniards making the use of languages that coexist in society incompatible with all normality.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u77	Mr. Bermúdez de Castro, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u78	I'm done, Madam President. That is not constitutional Spain. Constitutional Spain is a space of solutions, an area of freedom and coexistence between languages, a place of encounter and coexistence between Spaniards, a place that is worth continuing to defend and continue to build, and there they will always find us the Popular Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u79	Thank you, Mr. Bermúdez de Castro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group to fix positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The truth is that anyone who saw us from the outside would draw attention to the fact that in the Spanish Parliament, in the Congress, the deputies must go out and defend, in this case, the Spanish language, the Spanish language, because there are groups who want to eliminate it from part of Spain. If we add to that that one of the parties that wants to eliminate it is the one that is part of or is in the Government, it is, of course, the summit. The amendment that the Socialist Party signed with Esquerra, the agreement that they have reached - I suppose that agreement does exist, although I do not know if they are going to give up that signature because it seems that the agreements that they reach now, as in the case of Bildu, do not exist even if there is a role signed in the Navarra Foral Community between Bildu and the Socialist Party, but, well, they must be our dreams - has an objective. What is the aim of secessionist nationalist parties with language? It is very clear that it is one of the three issues that they need to create their own State: language, symbols and territory. It is obvious, and that is why Esquerra has so much interest in, in exchange for a budget, eliminating all mention to the Spanish in what they consider not only Catalonia but the whole of the Catalan countries - which they say -, along with their flag, the stellate, and together with the territory, which is Catalonia plus those who understand that by historical rights they are entitled to, and in what I am not going to enter, but we all know what we are talking about. That is the case in the Basque Autonomous Community, where both the Basque Nationalist Party and Euskal Herria Bildu, within their principles, when they speak, say: we have a homeland, which is that entelequia, that chimera that they call Euskal Herria; a territory where their language is spoken, which is the Basque, and where they have a flag, which is the Ikurriña. Those are legitimate political objectives, provided they are used by democratic means. The objective is legitimate, but it cannot, of course, be that parties that are or are not called nationalists or secessionists, allow them those political objectives and that for a single budget of a financial year are able to renounce fundamental principles that make a nation. But how can one change the budget of a financial year by having votes to do so with parties that question nothing about Spain and, instead, do so with those parties whose political objective is to weaken Spain, remove Spanish and Spanish and, moreover, on the part of some, whitewash them and bring prisoners closer? That's what it can't be.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u81	Mr. García Adanero, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u82	Pay heed to those who have offered them the votes in exchange for having a good budget for Spain and good for all the Spaniards, not good for the Socialist Party nor good for secessionists and nationalists, whose goal is to end this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u83	Thank you. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u84	Thank you very much, President. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u85	Mr Botran, I have to ask you, please, to move on to the common language of this House, which is the Castilian, and to which we regularly owe you and me. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u86	[[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u87	Mr. Botran, excuse me. I ask you, please, again, to take up the question I am asking you and, therefore, to use the language that we are legally obliged to use. Thank you very much. [[A Member of Parliament: You are called to order!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u88	[[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Protests.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u89	Mr Botran, for the third time, I ask you to stick to the matter. Otherwise, I'll have to call him to order.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u90	[[Continues your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u91	Of course, you can finish, but I ask you, please, to do so in the language shared by the whole House, which is the Spanishman. If you do not respond to this request, I shall take the floor. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u92	Gentlemen of VOX, we could have saved all the literature and summarize what they propose in a single sentence, that of'speaking to me as a Christian', which for so many years we had to endure in franchising schools. Flake favor you do to the Castilian perverting it as an element to conflict the tongues, using it as an instrument of imposition, as did Francoism, that time that you, lords of VOX, so much and so much yearn for. But they couldn't then and they can't now. [[Finish your euskera intervention]] Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u94	Thank you. They don't look so good from here. I'm trying to locate the VOX speaker, but it's going to be impossible for me. [[Mr. Aizcorbe Torra makes gestures indicating his location]] I'll track him down now. It presents us with a non-legislative proposal that our parliamentary group already considers since the reading of the text, and even more so after its presentation, which is a non-legislative proposal that, starting with a sociolinguistic fallacy, ends and results in legal manipulation. Today in your defense you have also done the same exercise because you are talking about attacks suffered by the Castilian, of a virus that attacks the Castilian, and in that way what you and VOX pretend is to position the Castilian in a situation of weakness that is false. That is the sociolinguistic fallacy of which this initiative starts, because what is actually in a weak situation, as you well know, is the rest of the official languages of its own, and it is the Constitution that protects - so much as you appeal to it - precisely the defence that must be done from the public authorities of the language, guaranteeing by all the public authorities - and it is a territorial obligation, that is to say, from all the administrations - that citizens have the right to speak in those languages. And you have a special obligation, because in the third paragraph of Article 3, it is expressly recognised that positive discrimination must be made - which you too are critical of - by what is considered to be a heritage value, a cultural value that is in a situation of weakness and, therefore, must be protected. In addition, in your non-law proposal all the statements you are making are manipulations of what the Constitutional Court is issuing, because the Constitution speaks of the duty to know Spanish, but it does not say anything about the right to live exclusively in Spanish. We have no right - at all - to study exclusively in Spanish; it is the competent administrations that have to determine which curriculum of education is and can give a positive treatment precisely to strengthen those official languages of their own that are in a situation of weakness. That is what the Constitutional Court says. He also said that it was necessary to go to the statutes of autonomy to see what the official languages were and the recognition of the right to speak in them. If you do this exercise, you will agree that the statute recognizes the right to speak - I insist - in the official languages of all the Autonomous Communities. And whether you like it or not, autonomy statutes are constitutional blocks. It must therefore recognize that the Administration has this dual role: on the one hand, it has to guarantee the right of citizens to speak and to develop their lives normally in the official language of the autonomous communities and, on the other, it has a duty to take measures to ensure, with positive discrimination, that they will have more development capacity. That is not an attack, it is not a virus, it is an approach, a policy of linguistic normalization that seeks respect for all languages and that we can coexist from respect. We are never talking about a monolingualism imposed, which is what you, in the name of that Hispania you desire and to which you aspire, intend to impose on us. It's a mistake. In Euskadi we have managed for decades to articulate consensus between different political formations that have yielded good results. We have been making progress in a situation that was very complex for us and we understand that in the rest of the autonomous communities we must also make progress in this way. That is our intention, and as much as they seek us, they will not find us on the path of confrontation and discord in this matter, because for us it is a matter of vital importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Botran, a preview. I understand him. I do speak Catalan; in fact, we know each other from the Parliament of Catalonia. I do not want to forbid you to be able to school your children, if you want, in your mother tongue, that I know, speak, respect and admire. You are the one who wants to ban my daughter from attending school today in the mother tongue. So if there's any victims here it's not you, there are hundreds of thousands of Catalan children who today can't go to school in their mother tongue. [[applause]] Your Honor, first of all, I am going to vote in favour of this initiative because Citizens, as you know, will always vote in favour of defending the freedom of the Spaniards and their constitutional right to live in Spanish in any corner of the country. It's the year 2020. Already in 2006 my party presented itself for the first time to an election, the autonomous elections in Catalonia, where it was and remains difficult to defend the normal use of our common language because there are people like Mr Botran - who has come here today as a victim - who do not want to use Spanish normally in Catalan society. Well, none of what we voted on today is missing from the programme that my party defended in 2006 and we will therefore vote in favour, but it is important to outline one thing. Do you know what would have happened if this very thing had been put to the vote before that year in the Parliament of Catalonia? That he would have obtained zero votes, because the separatists have been supporting the exclusion of the Castilian in Catalonia for years, but what is really sad is that neither the Socialist Party nor the People's Party - where, by the way, Mr Garriga, now VOX's candidate in Catalonia, was campaigning for many years, and he left not precisely because of the language, but because of abortion or homosexual marriage, as he himself has stated - never supported Citizens' approaches. We celebrate - and, indeed, we are proud of it - that today, thanks to our work, we do not find ourselves alone. In fact, Spanish is a language of normal use in the Parliament of Catalonia for fifteen years because it was Citizens, not for the PP, which has been there for many more years, much less for VOX. Ladies and gentlemen, what cannot be done is to try to deceive the Spaniards; they cannot now get their hands on their heads as if there were no hundreds of thousands of families who cannot school their children together with the co-official language of the autonomous communities where they live. This problem is very old, and if it were for the People's Party or for VOX, of course, it would not be a reason for national political opposition, because, gentlemen of the People's Party, not only did they not do anything to solve it despite its absolute majority, but it was they who, thanks to a pact with the separatists, did not even resort, and could do so, to the law of linguistic policy of the Generalitat, which consolidated the model of exclusion of the Spanish from public life. Many of VOX's deputies then campaigned in the People's Party and did not raise their voice to protest it. Not to mention the Socialist Party, which again assumes - and this is not surprising - the theses of linguistic nationalism which has ruled in Catalonia for forty years. We are going to vote in favour of this proposal, but, moreover, until the end of the process of the sectarian counter-educational reform - another in the pernicious turnism in this matter between the People's Party and the Socialist Party - we are going to keep our hand open so that the Government eliminates the savagery of shielding by law the violation of the rulings of the Constitutional Court that are being produced today by the Generalitat and that the People's Party did not stop when it was in the Government. Because if we debate this today, it is because the government or, rather, a part of the government, is the one who has put this matter on the table to please those who will never be happy. Do you really think that any concession to Republican Left or a separatist party is going to make them suddenly become constitutionalists? Do you really have a hint of that? Who convinced you of this political nonsense? I could understand goodism with the separatists if not because you have no previous experience, but you, lords of the Socialist Party, and all the Spaniards have forty years of accumulated experience, and there is not a single sign or a single gesture that makes Presage that Esquerra - and now you will confirm it, I am convinced - stop defending independence on all tracks, including those that are not in accordance with the Constitution. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it is Esquerra and not Citizens who put the poison of the division between Spaniards in these budgets, and the division gets it trying to corner what people intimately have as a defining element of their identity: the language, and we already live that in past times. We defend the equal coexistence of the different official languages of Spain in society and in all its manifestations, mainly in education. I'm done, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u97	Yes, Mr. Mirror-Saavedra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u98	I'm done. The Socialist Party can still rectify and, only if it does, can we agree that what is shielded by law is not the exclusion of Spanish, but what is really logical and makes sense in any country, that the common language is to convey in the education of our children together with the other co-official languages. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u99	Thank you, Mr. Mirror-Saavedra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u100	Thank you, Madam President. [[Continue your intervention in Galician.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u101	Mr Rego, I ask you, please, to continue with the common language shared with the rest of the Members of this House.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u102	[[Continue your intervention in Galician]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u103	Mr. Rego, I'm asking you for a second time. Otherwise, I'll have to take his word for it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u104	[[Continue your intervention in Galician.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Is there only one boy or girl in Spain who doesn't know how to speak Spanish? [[Several Members: No!]] None. [[Applauds]] Are there Valencian, Basque and Galician children who can't speak Valencian, Basque or Galician? A lot, a lot. [[Rumors]] My mother was born in Sweden, Valencia...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u107	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u108	...lived his whole life there. Was my mother Spanish? Yeah, right? My mother gave me two things, like all of you: her love and her tongue, the Valencian. That's why I write, I think, I love Valencian. Is your tongue superior, the tongue that your mother taught you, which mine taught me? [[Several Members: No!]] Is your language more Spanish than mine? [[Several Members: No!]] Do you deserve more respect for your language than mine? [[Several Members: No!]] Then why do you want everything that isn't Spanish to disappear? Why don't you respect us? Why have they been striving for three hundred years to impose their language on us for a just right of conquest? You know why? [[Protests]] [[Protests.-Applause.]] [[Applauds]] Because they don't care about our tongue, they just care about yours. Because they do not understand the verses of Miguel León Portilla: 'When a tongue dies /... then it closes / to all the peoples of the world / a window, / a door, / a look / differently /... as it is being and life on earth'. I'm finishing up. Because you will never understand that when I sleep my grandson and sing My xiquet is l'amo / del carrer i del corral / de la pomera i la limera / i la flore del taronger, I am transmitting to you ancestral feelings of love, as valid as yours, from many generations that preceded us; a way ours to understand the world in danger of extinction, yes, ladies and gentlemen, in danger of extinction. You know what? Franco didn't get it and you're not going to get it, narrow-minded people, out-of-date colonialists like you. We follow and we follow. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u109	Mr. Baldoví, you have to finish. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u110	Thank you, Madam President. It was never our language of imposition, never - we have just seen it right now - but of encounter. No one was ever forced to speak in Spanish and it was the most diverse peoples who made the language of Cervantes their own by free will. Unfortunately, history and this Congress deny so cynical or misinformed and emerite assertion, that it was perpetrated in 2001 and remains in force today. I have just lied to Cervantes and I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the poet of Oliva, Francisco Brines, who is the winner of the Cervantes Prize. But, note that in 1716 a secret instruction was already drafted from the prosecutor of the Council of Castile who intended to impose the Castilian in Catalonia indicating the need, yes, for the effect to be achieved without notice of care. The non-law proposal that you are proposing to us today is one more example of this will, although you care so much about the effect that you no longer care for. In fact, he doesn't care about them. In their text they set out five reasons and propose two points, but they are all summarized in one: the Spanish language is one, large and free. They assure that it is time for the State to put order and guarantee the right and duty of every Spaniard to know the Spanish. Let's see if they clarify it, because right and duty are two antonymous terms and we have it very clear, knowing and speaking languages is not a duty, it is a privilege that has to do with the way of conceiving the world. Therefore, we recommend that you practice it, it is very healthy. If any obligation is not fulfilled by the Spanish State, it is precisely that of protecting the co-official languages which are their own in their respective territories. Yes, your own languages, reflect on what this concept means and perhaps you will realize that this uniform Spain with which you dream does not exist because it has never existed, or only existed by force and that is a bit primitive, barbaric and, of course, nothing polyglot. I doubt they think because their obsession even leads them to put the rights of officials before the rights of the citizens they should serve, but the Rules of Procedure of this House already show the absurdity of their fears: the only prohibited languages are the languages of the Basque Country, Galicia and the Catalan countries. In 1716 the slogan was to give instructions and orders tempered and disguised, in 2021 they no longer need to hide. They open their minds, even if they are careful, they may be surprised by the effect. The only virus that affects them, apart from the COVID, let me tell you that it is that of intolerance. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, everything comes back: the shoulders, the jackets, the bell in the pants, Gibraltar, the Pantoja, the debate about the Spanish persecuted in Catalonia... I don't even remember the times we've debated this fallacy in five years. Let's do a test, let's do a test. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u113	Mr Rufián, thank you very much for your intervention. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that it has been traditional use in this House to be able to use other official Spanish languages in addition to the Spanish language but in a narrow way, with a small introduction, with a small quote, with some expression or a small reference and this has been allowed, but the common language shared by all Members is the Spanish language, and therefore, Mr Rufián, I will also ask you, please, to continue in that common language which is the Spanish language and which allows us to understand everyone in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u114	To you, Madam President. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u115	Mr. Rufián, I have to ask you, please, to use the Spanish again. I am sure that your intervention is very much in order for us to lose the rest of the Members. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u116	Thank you very much. All right. See? And then they say it's the Castilian who's being chased and threatened. [[Applauds]] I, according to your theories, that I am proud son of linguistic immersion, do you realize that I shouldn't be speaking the language I'm speaking here today? The linguistic immersion was thanks to the enormous effort of workers from Murcia, Galicians, Castilians, Madridns, Extremians, Andalusians, Aragons, who literally left their skin because their children and grandchildren wanted, loved, spoke the language and culture of the land they were treading! And they already had - already had - fascism in front of them and they beat him. I can assure you that we will, too. One country, two languages, one spoken by 577 million people!, 577 million, the second or third most spoken language on the planet, and the other, spoken by just 10 million. Man, it's that even a Spanish non-nationalist alien would understand that the language to protect and preserve is the second!, but by pure efficiency, by common sense. Stop praising ignorance! [[Rumors]] You, right-wing gentlemen - because today we have seen a competition to see who was more right-wing and more anti-Cathalan - stop advocating ignorance. You don't mind the Catalan; no, you know it's a lie that the Castilian is persecuted in Catalonia, you know it. What annoys them, what really annoys them is what has been achieved thanks to the effort of groups like the Republican Left, which is to strengthen the public school and what people like me are here! That's what bothers them. And the second thing that bothers them the most is to put a stop to segregation in concerted schools. So, please, keep being right, but be a little more sincere. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u118	Good afternoon. 'How do you say in uolof the word border, the word / homeland? And in sonike? What-what do you call the helpless? /.................................................................................. If you have to leave, is the word goodbye a sustantivu? /.................................................................................. How is it said na yours, na our language / the word futuru?' These verses are from Berta Piñán, entitled Grammar Lesson and are written in the language that I speak to my son, in the language that my grandfather spoke, and in the language that hundreds of thousands of Asturians speak, we speak, every day. This poem speaks of the possibility that languages offer to understand us, to understand us. I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of VOX because they are so clumsy with their hatred that they invite us to reaffirm ourselves in what we are as a society, as a country and as a country. You bring an initiative to protect the Castilian, but you make a loose use of it. They cite the Constitution in its article 3, but only the first point. They forget point number 2, which speaks of the existence of the co-official languages and, above all, they forget point 3, but, don't worry, I quote it: '3. The richness of the different linguistic modalities of Spain is a cultural heritage that will be the object of respect and protection.' It is very ugly, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, to quote the Constitution skewedly. [[Applauds]] Listening to them seems like the Castilian is in danger, but it's fake. In fact, the community of linguists has repeatedly spoken to say just the opposite. It turns out that the Castilian enjoys excellent health. The empowerment of the minority languages, which is indispensable, will in no way occupy or remove the Spanish from other spaces. In fact, the committee of experts of the European Charter of Minority Languages what they tell us in their studies is that the Castilian statistically wins speakers, does not lose them. How does it fit that all those who speak a language, which according to the Constitution must be protected and respected, can address the public administration only in Spanish? What does a person from Aiguafreda or Fisterra do who has to call, with all the nervousness that this implies, emergencies? Don't say you don't teach Spanish in schools. They don't lie. My partner Antón Gómez-Reino explains it well. There is no Spanish-speaking person who leaves school as a Galician speaker, but there are many Galician speakers who speak only Spanish. My colleague Joan Mena has also said so in this rostrum on many occasions. Families who say they want to study in Spanish and don't leave them what they mean are that they don't want to study in Catalan, because Catalan schools teach Spanish. And I bring here the words of Professor Juan Carlos Moreno Cabrera of the Autonomous University of Madrid. I'm sixty-three years old and I went to Franco school. When the dictatorship ended, the other languages began to emerge. Instead of complaining about that education we received, which had nothing to do with the society we were, we now complain about having to learn another language of the State. The question is not why to learn other languages, the question we would have to ask ourselves is why they denied generations and generations to know those languages. Your proposal is a denial of who we are, a denial of reality. Do you know why traditional toponymy is important? That's why Adrienne Rich said, because they're the remains of the shipwreck, because they're the names that have survived the purpose of renaming every town from an Administration that all I wanted was to standardize realities. You can't do it with the mountains and you can't do it with the tongues. When they require those names to appear in the signs at least in Spanish, when they were also said otherwise, what they are demanding is that at least the invented name appears. With their proposal they deny it, but I thank them for giving us this option to reaffirm ourselves. That our reality is multilingual is seen every time Rodrigo Cuevas exhausts the entries two months before when he sings in Asturian in Alicante. That we are multilingual feels when we listen to Maria Arnal i Marcel Bagés, Boyanka Kostova, Uxía or Muguruza. It is seen with O burning and the success this film has had, shot in Galician. You can see with him success that Charrin Charran has on Aragón TV. It is seen with the poems of Chus Pato, by Miren Agur Meabe. You can see when Rosalía sings in Catalan and we all know the lyrics. That we are multilingual and proud to be so is not something you can change with your roller. Heavy rollers, full of repression, censorship and deaths, have passed through the entire territory. And you know what? That here we continue, speaking, reading and singing in the languages of the peoples and asking each generation more deeply for the rights that correspond to us as speakers, so it is not up to you to hate yourself to swallow. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gutiérrez Prieto has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u120	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, you already have enough experience to know when a Member is presenting an initiative to solve a problem or to enlarge it. Mr de VOX, you may, in your dreams in black and white, aspire to a certain Spain, in which one faith, one language or even one ideology prevails. It is legitimate to dream of the past, but it is not so that you try to sweeten it with a bath of legality, patching up the texts of the Constitution and the ruling of the Constitutional Court, because I, who share with most of you the Spanish language as a mother tongue, want to differentiate myself from you not only in ideology, which is not the main thing in the question before us, but in the principles of coexistence and democratic culture. I'll start with the essentials, gentlemen of VOX. The Catalan, the Valencian, the Basque and the Galician together with the Spanish, all of them are Spain because they all form and cement the polyhedral puzzle of our history, of our culture, of our sign of identity as a country. One can love one of the languages more, but one cannot deny that all of them integrate Spain from the depths that the human being has, which is the way in which he expresses his fears, in which he projects his dreams, in which he prays to his God or in which he loves his children. Therefore, gentlemen of VOX, the Spanish Constitution protects and integrates all of them equally, because the right and duty of which you speak with regard to the Spanish in your non-law proposal is also the right and duty of the rest of the languages in their respective territories. That is why the different rulings of the Constitutional Court have been accommodating a linguistic model that is complex, yes, because of the diversity and that is also difficult because we have been moving in democracy from vertical hegemony to cultural coexistence. But it is complex because there have always been those in this country who have wanted to confuse cultural diversity with political unity and thus express, as they have done today, without any complexes that the protection of our co-official languages or free choice by citizens means a risk to the integrity of our country as a State or as a nation. Only with narrow minds could we say that the more Galician is less Spanish, the more Basque is less Spain, or the more Catalan, the less Constitution. Our history has shown us precisely the opposite, that the more we embrace, the more we integrate and the more we respect our greatest diversity is the collective project of our country because the more space it gives to different people. [[Applauds]] Flaco favor do, gentlemen of VOX, that we love and defend Spain as it is when they confuse languages with nationalism - they have done again today - because, like speaking Spanish you can be left or right, you can speak Basque, Catalan or Galician and choose any option of our democratic fan. For example, without going any further, in Sarreaus, Galicia, 97% of its population used Galician as a vehicle language and yet in the autonomous past seven out of ten voters opted for the popular party ballot. Another example is the PNV, which has up to 40% of votes in municipalities where only 5% or 10% of the inhabitants use Basque as their usual language. That is the strength of our country, the greatness of our democracy. Languages only enrich us and, as a cultural factor, do not predetermine our ideological location or the partisan. If so, the incendiary speeches, theirs, which serve precisely to warn of a Spain that turns its back on millions of Spaniards, precisely because they do not respect their traditions or their culture. Not one end or the other. The Constitutional Court's decision 31/2010 states that the constitutional legitimacy of an education in which the vehicle of communication is the language of its autonomous community cannot be called into question. The Constitution itself has also established the minimum percentages of use in schools in the various official languages of the State and it has also been the High Court, in judgement 46/91, with Tomás and Valiente as president, thirty years ago, which has defined the constitutionality of requiring official languages within the principles of merit and capacity to guarantee also the constitutional right of citizens to be able to address themselves in their mother tongue in the different public administrations. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you may not like the entire constitutional text, because, indeed, in Spain of everyone we draw on the canvas of the Transition no one had all the brushes. I do not ask you to change your taste or your opinion, simply to respect the entire Constitution and to abide by all the rulings of the Constitutional Court. Be proud, at least for once, of all Spain, of everything, as it is: one of the best democracies in the world. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u121	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. Mr Aizcorbe, does your group accept the amendment that has been tabled? [[Denial]] Thank you so much. The non-legislative proposal in its terms will therefore be voted on. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the creation of an independent authority for economic recovery. [[File number 162/000405]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u122	We continue with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the creation of an independent authority for economic recovery. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Castellón Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u123	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is facing the biggest challenges that we as a society have had to face in the last 50 years. It is important to overcome the pandemic and to rebuild our economy, a challenge that undoubtedly requires decision-making to be commensurate with such a task. Thousands of self-employed, thousands of SMEs are on the loose rope and depend, to a large extent, on the decisions we will make in the coming months so that this crisis does not entail their definitive death. If we already discard Bildu's budgets as a useful tool to reactivate our economy for irresponsible, irresponsible, aside from shameful, we only have the European funds as a table of salvation to grab in order to overcome the crisis. They will come from Europe 140 billion euros and, as a country, we have a duty to employ them in the most effective way possible to manage to mobilise that investment in private capital four times and thus to bring about a real revolution in our economy, capable of bursting new businesses, maximizing our potential growth and creating the thousands of jobs we need. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, Europe's unprecedented support today represents a great hope for thousands of companies, but it can also become a great frustration if we do not get those funds to reach those who really need them. Remember that while many of you clap with euphoria or recreate in pompous presentations full of snobbery and grandiloquent terminology, there are thousands of Spaniards out there - there are thousands of hoteliers, merchants, cleaners, taxi drivers, hairdressers - who are hand in hand and who are the ones who really have to receive and need these help to survive. Because, apart from the indicators that the European Union imposes on us and that we will logically have to meet, the true effectiveness of these funds will be measured by the number of Spaniards who see their current living conditions improved as a result of good and correct application of the European funds. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, that these funds come to Spain to save the Spaniards from ruin and not to save the PSOE from its own. It would therefore be a huge mistake for the Government to attempt to turn the distribution of funds into a will-buying market, while citizens are seeing how the funds that can save them from ruin come only to the benefit of a few. That is why we are seeing with amazement how the management of the projects has been entrusted by the President of the Government to that presidential unit based in the presidential palace, consisting of presidential advisers at the orders of the president's chief of staff, Mr. Redondo, and how, for example, the management of the Ministry of Economy, which has the best officials of the State Administration empowered to manage them, has been removed. As we also believe a huge mistake that part of the liquidity will cover ordinary items of expenditure that should be faced with other financial sources, because we must remember that the ultimate goal of these funds is not to finance the government's agenda, but to change our productive model, so that, accompanied by the appropriate structural reforms, our economy will undertake an ecological and digital transformation that will make us a more competitive and sustainable country. The efficient use of this European funding will undoubtedly pose a huge administrative challenge and, of course, after the management that Spain has carried out in the financial framework of the 2014-2020 operational programme, where we have only been able to certify 34% of the 56 billion that we had available, it is logical that doubts are growing on the ability to manage 140 billion for the next six years, and even that these doubts already skip our borders. And it is that with a socialist government that has not highlighted precisely because of its diligence in the management of Community funds in the last two years, we understand the nervousness of all economic agents. We are playing, ladies and gentlemen, the exit from the crisis, we are playing the game of rebuilding an economy in line with our European partners. We cannot fail the Spanish and we cannot fail Europe either. In the face of this enormous challenge, today, here, from the People's Party, we bring to this House a will already expressed by our President, by Pablo Casado, that we among all formulate a shared strategy that is up to the moment. We propose, therefore, to launch a message of political unity that also materializes in a true public-private alliance that generates certainty, the necessary certainties in our economy. We propose to put the reconstruction of our economy, of our country, of our economic model, in the hands of the best. We therefore propose that the Government urgently articulate an independent authority for economic recovery that manages and articulates these European funds, led by some of the leading experts of international prestige with which our country has, and that it also be elected by a large majority of Congress as an expression of the political unity that wants to overcome the crisis. An authority that has the presence, logically, of the autonomous communities and local authorities, so decisive in the governance and management of European funds, and where we also have the presence of the officials of the European institutions. An authority composed of the best government officials, by professionals with high managerial capacities, and that together add their vision to design truly transformative strategies and projects and generators of high structural and economic impact. A rigorous body, a guarantee body, a body which is transparent but which at the same time gives sufficient agility to the procedures for granting the funds, their implementation and their subsequent justification so that not a single euro is lost along the way. In addition, an authority that carries out its work over the next six years and, thus, is left out of political vagaries or future elections and therefore ensures the stability of the investment strategy. Therefore, from the People's Group today we come to Congress to propose to all political forces that together we exercise a capital responsibility that serves to bring together efforts and save the economy of our families. The Banco de España has warned of the strong uncertainty due to the inability to manage the funds, has alerted from the bottlenecks of the Administration, has linked the impact and the success of them to an effective management. AiReF has disagreed on the expected impact of the government on our economy in 2021 and has shown its scepticism that a desired multiplier effect of investment will be achieved. The European Commission, the CEOE, Esade and all specialized consultants...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u124	You have to finish your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u125	I'm done, President. ...have shown their concern in the same way, and of these doubts, our proposal. Therefore, gentlemen of the PSOE - I conclude - this is the responsibility we ask and offer from the People's Group, so that we can try to overcome the crisis. Maybe it's not the one Mr. Ábalos likes best, maybe it's not the one Mr. Simancas likes best, but yes...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u126	It has to end. I'm so sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u128	No amendments have been tabled to this initiative, so we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. This non-legislative proposal on the creation of an independent authority for economic recovery, which Mr Castellón Rubio has defended, is very well put forward because it responds to one of the major priorities to address the enormous difficulties that are growing as a consequence of the health emergency that has plagued us over the course of 2020 and which unfortunately continues. This initiative, moreover, has a marked Community cut, as it gives continuity to the European Council's determined support to this historic crisis, which is to be combated by the creation of the so-called Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, for which Spain and the other Member States have to draw up national plans and establish reform and investment programmes up to 2026. In addition, the idea of providing Spain with an independent authority also has a derivative in terms of transparency and management support so that our administrations can accommodate the exceptional regulatory and regulatory requirements that will be imposed by the European Union and that mark a new time in the face of the severe economic and social constraints resulting from the coronavirus pandemic. It also implies a reinforcement in the very complex journey to undertake structural reforms and monitor the obligations with which the Spanish people face the lines of support that we have to access, adapting to the requirements to opt for recovery projects and develop them. [[COVID-19]] Ladies and gentlemen, the creation of an independent authority is of double value, preventive and therapeutic, which I would like to stress because it is essential, in view of how it is spent and how it discriminates the PSOE-United Coalition Government. We can, as the Congress's agenda currently reflects with the draft State General Budgets Act for 2021; a project that continues to be dealt with in the House after all amendments - including those of the Forum - are rejected - and the warning that they are unreal and insolvent public accounts, which do not serve to recover the destroyed employment and which lead to the rescue of our economy by the European Union. The pre-allocations estimated by the Government at the end of October, just over two weeks ago, for the Autonomous Communities in 2021 of the recovery funds, are defachable. It is enough to say that the Government has pre-allocated its €4253 million to the autonomous communities and reserved more than three times; specifically, €14,540 million pending regionalization. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists who are ruling in Asturias, accredited Sanchists, as is the case with the Socialist Group's spokesman, Mrs Lastra, have congratulated themselves. Although most of the money remains to be distributed, the propaganda states that by 2021 152 million of the recovery plan has been pre-allocated, of which 117 million will be protected by the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, which in Asturias already accumulates several thousand jobs damaged on account of the radical ecologicalism of the Minister Ribera, and the remaining 35 million protected on account of the policy of the ministry led by Mr. Ábalos, another great specialist and collector of delays, paralysiss and unfulfilled commitments. However, the official propaganda states that, at the same time, in the draft state accounts for 2021, Asturias continues to come out very badly due to the application of the autonomous financing system, which will suffer a decrease of at least 2.6% in Asturias, the second Spanish autonomous community to which it is most cut. Not only is the system of perverse autonomous financing extended for eleven years, which had already had to be reformed in 2014, but the Government is putting €2865 million into essential public services. Adjust it is called those who have committed such an assault, such subtraction and continuation. How is it not going to be necessary for Asturias and Spain to have an independent authority called for in this parliamentary initiative for the best and most equitable allocation of European funds? In addition, it is appropriate to urge the Government to approve it and to submit the nomination of the presidency of this authority to its endorsement by a qualified majority of the Congress of Deputies. Finally, and if that were not enough, we are called upon to have recourse to homogeneous criteria provided for in the Spanish Constitution, but with this Government such a criterion will not be applied equitably. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u130	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u131	Thank you, President. Look, what a coincidence, because yesterday a motion was also debated in the Senate urging the Government to create a national agency for economic recovery as an independent agency to select and coordinate the distribution of funds. The proposal, of course, seems to be part of the mistrust that generates the way in which these funds can be distributed, which could perhaps be shared in part, but it is that the proposal does not even get into the bottom of the issue, it only urges the creation of an independent body assuming its effectiveness and efficiency per se because it is independent. They tell us about setting up an agency simply and whose president is subject to Parliament's consideration, but I also wonder: how is the president elected? What are the criteria? How is independence guaranteed? Doesn't the potential nominees have any ideologies? How's it gonna work? Do you think it is possible to reach an agreement with the parliamentary fragmentation that exists at the moment? I believe that we have really well-trained administrations to manage and control projects and the important thing is that it is also done in co-governance, because it is as important to have planning as having a good management mechanism, and this is where this co-governance will have to set clear and simple rules, and sufficient mechanisms and measures should be empowered to speed up funds. As I said, little you say in the approach of this agency, and moreover I think we are already late, it is not the time of an agency. It is true, and we said it in the debate on General State Budgets, that the funds are a lever for recovery. It is also true that the specific projects to which the funds are linked are not known and that they are supposed to mark the change in direction of the economic model. It is true that we may have missed an opportunity to be clearer about these criteria and the conditions of distribution because, as I said, there are tractor projects in which very general lines are simply marked with a series of figures and with a mechanism of distribution at best uncertain. What we are going to ask for is not so much an agency, but there are clear criteria, that there is a good plan designed and able to combine the different European instruments and funds. It would have to be a reasoned plan, establishing clear and transparent criteria. There should also be a capacity to absorb these funds and not to go as far as the Structural Funds, which did not take full advantage of their financing, let alone their structural purpose, and that the funds should also be directed directly or indirectly at companies, in particular industry, so that they are economic tractors, projects which, as I say, contribute to the transformation of the productive model. This requires the central Government to have an institutional, entrepreneurial and technological system. A well-known columnist wrote in August that after the summit of presidents in San Millán, if we started to talk about the distribution before defining the main priorities, we can end up generating the tombol phenomenon that in the 1980s and 1990s accompanied the management of the cohesion funds, which basically were destined for more infrastructures and of course served us for structural changes in the economy. Just as it is said today that the government gives everything to European funds, you too seem to give everything to a state agency, thinking that it is going to be synonymous with efficiency and efficiency and it seems that it also gives the administration some supposed inefficiency. I think we need to be realistic. An agency is not going to solve the problems right now, nor will it be able to be operational by January, and of course what is needed is not so much agencies as seriousness and rigour. And it is that the success of the economic recovery of these funds - I said - will be subject to their proper use and to the demand for structural changes in the current system, because the funds will be conditioned on reforms that will be part of the European Semester. These reforms will also have to be talked about at some point, not arguing and justifying that these reforms must be done because they come from Europe, but because they will be necessary reforms if what we want is a cohesive and socially advanced State. You have also told us that the economy is not going to recover. I wonder: and with an agency you will only recover? I believe that Europe is going to ask for seriousness and we are asking for seriousness, and we are certainly not going to support this GNP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u132	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u133	Thank you, President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, to begin by asking you a question: will Spain take advantage of the historic opportunity offered by the EUR 140 billion of the European Recovery Fund? I ask you this question because we are concerned, many people are concerned about this issue. In Citizens we are concerned and that concern is based on previous experience, and we are afraid that if you do not change the way you act, we will not be able to take advantage of this European aid. If you ask the government, I would like to reflect on its members from the proposing group, the PP's members. I would deeply regret that, by presenting this initiative here today, you have given up raising this same issue in the handling of the State's General Budgets, only because you have tabled an amendment to the whole one week ago that only serves you to compete with your ladies and gentlemen of VOX, although it is difficult to compete with a parliamentary group that refuses to work for the most important law of the year and that will affect all Spaniards, including their voters. Either you don't want to work, or you don't have anything to contribute by the Spaniards. In Citizens, from the outset, we have made it clear that we cannot afford to waste EUR 140 billion on recovery and we will do everything in our hand, yes, even if these budgets and this Government do not like it, because we will try to improve, we will try to make this money come, that we can use it and that we can use it well. That is why this budgetary procedure is so important, because in theory - in theory - it will include the reforms that we are sending to Europe and those that we are doing in Spain to transform our country. And I say in theory because - I am addressing you again, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE - we do not know where those reforms are, we have not seen the reforms to transform Spain with the money from European funds. Look, we can't repeat the sluggish management of the health crisis, we can't go on with the short lights and just looking at the immediate future, we need to have a high eye and use the money we're going to receive to lay the foundations for Spain of the future. I repeat that we are in a critical situation, but this crisis is a historic opportunity that Spain has and it is a golden opportunity to do things differently. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it seems logical and essential to have an independent and supra-ministerial office to ensure the proper use of European funds, but an office with its activity and its clear and marked operating circumstances. That is why Citizens have tabled an amendment to the budgets with all these measures. It has to be an office that has an overall vision, an office that is able to set objective criteria apart from ideologies and partisans to use community funds in the most efficient way, an office that meets the highest standards of independence, training and accountability. And it is important to insist on this idea, because for what has been leaking from Moncloa, for what has been sensed, we would interpret that there is no specific plan for the administration and management of European funds. [[The Lord]] I hope you will correct me, gentlemen of the PSOE, ladies and gentlemen who occupy the government, and tell me that I am wrong. And I'll explain to you why we suspect you don't have any plans. Because of what Moncloa has leaked, we read that the European funds will be included in the budget and will be managed from there in calls, grants agreements and specific lines of the competent ministries, that is, to inject the money into the same ministries to continue doing the same. Well, no. Moncloa also filters that out of ten spending levers, so that each of these levers creates a specific council that will be open to participation and will discuss proposals and projects, that is, a model of expenditure management similar to the expert councils of this pandemic, which are unknown and so secret that they do not contain anywhere, but reforms, none. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a plan negotiated by the same forces that have agreed in Europe on the Recovery Plan, and we need an economic recovery office with management capacity, an independent office with top-level experts. I'm running out of time. We cannot continue to do the same when the situation is extraordinary. And we do believe that we are facing a historic opportunity. Achieving it must take a strategic look at it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u134	Your Honor, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u135	Can I finish? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u136	It's over. Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u137	Thank you, President. Today that I see some of your ladies with orange ties, claiming a cause that I myself can share, I must remind you that there are some of us who have been wearing these yellow ties for almost three years to claim the freedom of political prisoners and exiles. [[touching the flap]] I would also like to remind you of what we were told when we came up to this rostrum with a yellow tie some of you, also your fellow citizens. In any case, today we are dealing with a rather peculiar proposal because, if I were really honest and the People's Party considered it essential, it does not fit into my mind that this was thought to be done through a GNP. If it is so fundamental for the future of the management of European funds, what is expected of the second group of the House is that it is addressed to the government and that it is really trying to agree this independent authority for economic recovery to manage the funds, and if the government, after making the honest management, tells them that no, they are no longer in the parliamentary game. I understand that this contact has not been offered, but, even if it was and they would have said yes, we do not agree. Because, look, it's a demand for anti-policy: since there's a government, there's a chamber that doesn't know anything about what's going on, that they're a disaster and they're going to mismanage it, we're going to find someone from outside who comes to manage the European funds and who comes to decide how much of these European funds run the autonomous communities, local corporations or the General Administration of the State. But on what criteria and, above all, on what legitimacy? Is this person more legitimate than any of us, out of the 350 Members? I think it's a conceptual mistake. Of course, we have doubts that these funds are managed in the most efficient way, but the solution is not to create an independent authority. One might think: what if he had been ruling the People's Party would have made this proposal or not? Because, of course, then it would be a reliable government, wouldn't it? We therefore do not understand your proposal and do not share it. This kind of speech, which can look good, which can get to some level, and I would even tell you that it can be a little populist, of how politicians don't know how to do their job, we're going to look for someone out of politics who's going to do his job splendidly, that's not a guarantee either, I honestly tell you. What has to be done is to reach an agreement. We too are concerned about this initial approach that, from an economic office in Moncloa, for the time being, not with sufficient transparency, we want to manage, but in any case, we will have to reach agreements, we will have to reach agreements in this House, we will have to reach agreements with the autonomous communities and we will have to reach agreements with the municipalities and the entities that represent them. But to establish this mechanism, someone from outside, who is going to be a magnificent person and who is going to have much more judgment than any of the 350 Members we have been through the ballot box, does not seem entirely right to me. We will therefore vote against this initiative. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u138	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Castellón, Don Miguel Ángel, it would seem reasonable an independent authority for recovery, if not because the recognition that on the governance of the funds Next Generation must intervene the different administrative levels disappears, as by charm, between the proposed part and the disposition of its proposal not of law. It would seem reasonable to have an independent authority for recovery, if not because we know their habits of trying to control from behind the rooms of the regulatory institutions. An independent authority for recovery would seem reasonable if it were not for its custom to block how much appointment requires qualified majority; there are several examples: RTVE, General Council of the Judiciary, Ombudsman. And now you really urge the government to resolve it in two months? With all due respect, Mr. Castellón, you put the bar to the right height to give him the handcuff. It would seem reasonable to have an independent authority for recovery, if it were not for that bad habit which you have to invoke partially the authority of the regulators; if it were not because if the roles of government and opposition were changed we do not see you voting for such a PNL to the Socialist Party. If not because we already know each other, gentlemen of the PP, it would seem reasonable an independent authority for recovery, but it turns out that we have opened the constitutional regulatory mechanism to ensure fairness, transparency, effectiveness, subsidiary distribution of European funds. And that mechanism is to roll over, amend, trade and do not cease in the effort to find equity, transparency, effectiveness, subsidiary distribution in the General Budgets of the State that we have here, in the oven, on which we should all be working instead of devoting ourselves to Byzantineism - you will forgive me - free and short-sighted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u140	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u141	Thank you very much, President. The People's Party is bringing us to this House today a non-legislative proposal to propose the creation of an independent authority that manages the reconstruction funds. I have read carefully the text of your GNP and, you know what I think?, it is a very good idea and from the United Nations we can also propose a series of ideas. We think that this independent authority could have a central command, a kind of presidency and be divided into thematic areas depending on where the funds are going to be invested; easy names for everyone to understand: employment, industry. I also believe that this independent authority could negotiate directly with the rest of the Member States and with the European Commission, right? And to ensure its independence and transparency it could make public its internal organization and develop a budget. What do you think? So, what about the name? Better than independent authority acronyms, AI, or better than hard to pronounce acronyms, why not a name that everyone knows? Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what you propose to us here is to empty the state of its powers and an agenda of work on which we have been working in detail since March. The state is an independent authority, the government is an independent authority and you pose the Fifth Framework model for managing European reconstruction funds. Really? Think twice. And make no mistake, our country is going to have budgets, no matter how much they try to torpedo them every day. You are in opposition, United We can be in government and, the truth is, in such a complicated situation for our country, I cannot understand how your best proposal to manage these funds is to outsource them. I think it is not easy to see that, in the face of a global economic crisis, there is a government in Spain that is showing that things can be done differently. Here we are working to ensure that no one is left behind in our country and, therefore, they have no doubt that it will be this government that will lead the reconstruction of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot support a GNP that poses a type of technocratic state, without government, as if it were a troika that decides, because a government that cannot govern is like a democracy without democrats, and our group will not go that way, although I suspect you already knew. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I recognize that, as a joke, GNP is a well-built sign of sarcasm, but as a proposal to help the country is quite weak, and the country is not joking. However, from the United Nations We can thank you for making proposals instead of subscribing to the agenda of the easy insult from the bench. We are sure that in the People's Party there are more ideas than austerity, cuts and emptying our democracy. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u142	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Manso Olivar has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are here - and the speakers who have spoken before me have already explained this enough - to talk about a GNP proposed by the People's Party to create an independent authority for Spanish economic recovery. He wants it to be chaired by a well-known economic personality, who will set out the priorities of the investments of the NGEU funds, where there is public-private collaboration and, of course, he says, which are geared towards growth and modernisation. We are not going to create an independent authority to spend the money wherever we want, nor are we going to assume that budgets, in this way, are to throw them away, we have to assume the good end or the good use of public funds. We don't put it on, what then isn't done? That's different, that's what control is for. In addition, it proposes that we do all this through a royal decree-law, it will be because the lords of the People's Party do not give time to make a proposal, which is what they should do. Hey, you guys take the legislative initiative. It has surprised me and has put my hair at the top - although I know it is a long time ago in this House - that we urge the government to rule by royal decree-law, that is to have totally cast our shame as legislators. [[Mr. Castellón Rubio makes negative signs]] Look, we are in a very special situation, we are in a situation of dictatorship - do not be angry - of Roman dictatorship; that is, the House has given special powers to the President of the Government. [[Towards the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] With more reason not to ask him to do our job on top. Do you want this authority? Take the parliamentary initiative, but please don't ask the government to rule by decree-law, it seems embarrassing to me. You want that authority, that legal personality of recognized prestige in principle to be named by qualified majority. Look at you, all the text you present is a complex text. First they ask the government to rule him; no, you rule, they're legislators. Second, they ask you to please let them participate in the appointment! Regulate yourselves and ensure your appointment. It seems to us that we do not need to create any more authorities, we do not want any more bodies. We think economic ministries have enough capacity, okay? Perhaps what officials do not have, however qualified they may be, is the ability to see what generates wealth. In that sense, I do remind you of a proposal that we made long before the Commission for Reconstruction was set up: some kind of commissioner in the Italian way that combines that public-private collaboration that you are asking for and that gives the business ideas. That's right, that's right, but not what you're asking. Control. There are control mechanisms, but they are not being used. I am of the opinion that there are control mechanisms but we are not using them. We should ask for more resources for our Court of Auditors; the Court of Auditors cannot take the time to review the accounts. We should call for more cooperation from this House with the General Intervention of the State. We should really give more resources to the Budget Office of this Congress, which we are not doing. Indeed, gentlemen of the People's Group, you have to overcome your complexes, I say it to you and I say it to Citizens today, because you really don't believe that by attacking VOX you will admit to the club of progress or by putting on an orange bond. [[Applauds]] Sánchez told Mrs. Arrimadas very recently. Here people portrayed themselves on the afternoon of January 5, 2020, and the one who did not vote for Sanchez cannot wait for water or salt or bread or anything. Come to the opposition and really stop working with the Government. [[applause]] In spite of everything and for giving them an opportunity to come to the opposition, if you were willing to resume our proposal of some kind of free commissioner formed by people of recognized prestige who guided the investments in the way that was, for example, the commissioner for the Spanish brand in the past, when it was not charged for it, we will abstain on this occasion, but you see that we will abstain almost for pity. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u144	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u145	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Firstly, as an Andalusian Member, I would like to express my indignation at the mockery that has occurred in relation to the accent of my land and I want to say two things. First of all, that the Spanish we speak the Andalusians is the one we speak, who likes to like, that's the one there and we're not going to apologize to anyone. [[Applauds]] Secondly, those who mock the Andalusian accent continue to associate it with inculturation and jokes. There is no greater inculturation and vileness than in those who continue to use the topics and prejudices about Andalusia that have done us so much harm for centuries. So, that's enough! We ask for respect and, of course, we are not going to admit any kind of mockery. Turning to today's issue, Mr Castellón, the first thing I would like is for you to acknowledge the success of the European summit last July. They haven't been able to. They have not been able to recognise that it was a summit where European policy was radically changed, austerity was ended, fiscal rules were relaxed, transfers were admitted without any kind of reintegration for the countries and the European Union's debt was shared. That was unthinkable a few months ago and you have not been able to recognize that success, in much of all the presidents of the Member States, but also of ours, Pedro Sánchez, who has been one of the great adalides in defending this change in European policy. What you have done is to put obstacles, to go to Brussels to say that no, that, of course, the progressive government of Spain did not deserve so much. That is the People's Party, that is what the People's Party has shown after that European summit. [[Applauds]] Secondly, Mr Castellón, I would like you to clarify whether or not you support the reconstruction, recovery, transformation and resilience plan and whether you support the strategic axes, I will not repeat the established levers which include a modernisation of the public administration. I'd like to know if you really support him. Or what's your alternative? What alternative do you offer? The occurrence of Mr. Married from an independent authority? Is that the occurrence that only you have? Let him go on a date with the President of the Government on an improvised basis and that today he is brought here through a GNP! That's Mr. Married's conviction. You are concerned about governance and we too are concerned about the governance of these funds. First, having achieved them, which is a success, and then governing them well. And I want to tell you that you do not lie, what the Court of Auditors of the European Union has said is that you who managed the 2014-2019 financial framework only justified 33%. That is their failure, not the failure of the progressive Government. Your failure! And, of course, we see it necessary to change the dynamics, to modernise. An important royal decree will be passed to avoid bottlenecks, participate the autonomous communities and local authorities, co-governance. On the other hand, public-private collaboration is very important. More human resources, digitisation of public administrations, eligibility and valuation criteria, payment and advance forms and a new control system. In short, modernizing the Administration to ensure the governance of these public funds achieved. I want to conclude by saying that the failure of the People's Party is going to be historic, and it's going to be turning our backs on a social emergency situation like the one we're seeing, turning our backs on dialogue...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u146	Mr. Hurtado, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u147	I'm done. ...to betray...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u148	You've got to wrap it up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u149	... in this case to the citizenry. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u150	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u151	We now discuss the motion resulting from an urgent call by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the measures taken by the Government to curb the COVID-19 pandemic in Spain and minimize its effects. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr. Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u152	Thank you, President. This is the umpteenth proposal on health presented by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group at this session, the umpteenth constructive proposal that seeks to help in the management of the crisis of COVID-19 by the Government of Spain, the umpteenth proposal that thinks of the well-being of all Spaniards and that is not at the service of party interests. We know that there are different conceptions of politics that seek to take advantage of national misfortune to find benefits among the remains of the shipwreck. Here there are parties that have voted against the states of alarm knowing that they were needed at the worst time of the pandemic because they thought it was what was right for the thick stroke, for the quick explanation. There are also those who have tabled a motion of cosmetic censorship, which does not add up and which paralyzed this House for a week, because I ask: What changed in the lives of Spaniards who are sick or ruined after the motion of censorship of VOX? I'm telling you, nothing. The same thing they have done with the General Budgets of the State: nothing. You work less than Tarzan's tailor. The week in which they filed the motion of censure, hundreds died and were ruined just like the previous and the next. That's right, they were more helpless and more confused by the game of confusing communication to which the parties submit. Gentlemen of the PSOE, it is Citizens who bring here today another health proposal to try to make things better. Today, which you are debating internally between one way or another to approve the General Budgets of the State, look at what Citizens are proposing throughout this pandemic and look at what their intended partners in Esquerra or Bildu have proposed. Look at the recent sitting papers or the orders of the day of this House and you will see what we have each come to. See also what we each vote on in the alarm states when they were needed. Look at what Citizens demand and look at what Rufián and Otegi demand. These are the ways they have on the table for the General Budgets of the State and they are not any General Budgets of the State. What do we propose to you today? What do we bring today once again to the plenary session of the Congress? First, make the best use of all available resources, both public and private, especially UCI beds. The bureaucratic obstacles in Spain are an ancestral scourge, of which Larra already wrote, but the bureaucratic obstacles in the pandemic are a real disgrace. Secondly, we need to equip ourselves with mechanisms for the transfer of patients of COVID between centers and even between autonomous communities. There is also a need to strengthen the number of health-care personnel, with the implementation of a State-funded programme covering the recruitment of health-care personnel and the strengthening of public health services in the autonomous communities. You know, moreover, what is happening to the patients of other pathologies, especially cardiovascular or cancer, who are being neglected and the diagnoses are being delayed. Another proposal we make is a guarantee of transparency. We have said many times that it is important to remove the shadow of politicization from the decisions that are being made. Many groups in this House have not helped by sowing conspiracy and paranoia and others by crushing autonomous governments because they are of a different sign from that of their Government. Citizens here have also made a difference. They won't find us there. We also propose to create a Spanish public health agency. We have raised this in the budgets by means of the corresponding amendment, which also serves the amendments. We believe that they have confused decentralization with the dismantling of the Ministry of Health for decades. This agency would be responsible for external health and public health. The ministry was devoid of the means, and this is one of the reasons why the pandemic was reacted clumsily. But there are others, such as treating the coronavirus as a communicative crisis; they also messed up, because they wanted to get out with the smallest possible stains on the shirt. Moreover, even today, when it comes to making decisions, they are measuring the cost of each person's image to take on such or such a measure, and this remains a burden on the management of the pandemic. It is necessary to enhance screening and tracking, complete the implementation of the COVID radar throughout the territory and ensure that it is interconnected. We must achieve the goal of having hired a tracker - which is how public opinion has come to know it - for every 5500 inhabitants; they will be essential for all the period we have left until we have a vaccine. We have also tabled an amendment to the State General Budgets, because the pharmacy office can help a lot more than it is doing. Keep this in mind, as the professionals who work there offer their services. Adequate provision is needed for a strategic reserve of medicines, medical supplies and PPE to ensure safety at all times, not just for this pandemic, but for what may come in the future. A vaccination plan is needed to ensure that the vaccine is provided. Finally, it is necessary to combat those who sow propagandistic basurilla of all kinds and ideological extremes, from those who call the virus 'Chinese' and those who believe that they fight by burning copies of Karl Marx's work or by sending James Bond, to those who believe that the virus is a punishment of nature or that it is macho, that we have also heard it. It is always important to combat Chamanic populism - this is almost a pleonasm - but in pandemic much more. Gentlemen of the PSOE, one more day, more proposals. This is our attitude. Get ready for the attitude of other groups. Bildu organized casceroladas against the soldiers who played the guy cleaning the streets of the Basque Country. He didn't go to the state funeral either. Left either. Neither is VOX. Be careful, gentlemen of VOX, with the transitive property you apply so much. Esquerra asks for pardons for prisoners convicted of sedition and eradication on the role of Spanish from the Catalan school; pardons and more tools to try sedition again. Gentlemen of the PSOE, you don't have to drag your memory any longer. You tear your clothes because you remove plates of socialists, but you stay so panicked when you talk to the one who belonged to a band that followed the lives of many socialists. They will have to explain to me why they are so concerned about what is done with the plates and they are not worried about the voices of the living children of those killed by ETA of their party. The Civil War ended eighty years ago and ETA's last deadly attack was ten years ago. No need for this calvary, they don't have to put the Spaniards in the hands of those who want to break their homeland; they can avoid it. They don't have to betray everything they've been. There's an alternative to Otegi and Rufian, and it's called Citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u153	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments made, Mr Martínez Oblanca spoke by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. This motion is relevant because it raises issues that are absolutely priority and are related to the biggest problem that the Spanish people have had in so many decades, such as the bloody pandemic, which has already taken over more than 60,000 compatriots over the course of 2020, which has undermined the health of so many people, which has hampered and prevented the treatment of conventional diseases, which has put our health system in check and which, as a collateral effect, has evaporated, damaged and destroyed our productive fabric. The second wave of contagion calls for us to discuss the essential improvement of the measures taken by the Government. Spain's interest calls for the elaboration of a national plan for health coordination to stop and solve the unusual mismatch of anarchic management of this pandemic of the COVID-19, which has led Spain to the most heartbreaking statistics. It is unacceptable to observe our health authorities affirming one thing and the other on the same day, camouflaging data and using the crisis, through propaganda, for sectarian and propagandistic political purposes. They even frivolize to the extreme of using inappropriate comments about nurses and doctors, collectives who play the type in the front line and who head the world's blacklist of infected professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, today the world is witnessing the announcements of biomedical companies about advanced testing for vaccines, but even on this very important issue, the government is acting lightly. Since August, we have heard the Minister of Health predicting odd dates on the availability of a vaccine with variopintas and contradictory information, including the purchase of the product. Mr. Illa came to declare that he hoped to start distributing the vaccine after Christmas, then delaying it to the next summer; ultimately, an unacceptable tactic of false expectations to which other government misinformations were not alien. With the masks something similar happened, and we still expect an explanation of why they were not necessary in the first few weeks of the pandemic, as they then claimed. The advertising campaign 'We came out stronger', with the president doing Superman on the Mareta and the Marismillas on the seashore, explains a tragic second wave of unstoppable contagions from those who did not take advantage of the experience of the first. Ladies and gentlemen, of course there is a need for a national health coordination plan such as that which Mr Díaz Gómez has explained and claimed. I have tabled an amendment to provide for measures to strengthen health personnel that go beyond those mentioned in the motion, because everything points to the fact that this second wave of the pandemic is going to continue and even there are specialists who predict a third wave of contagion. I therefore believe that it is essential to focus on the training of staff, particularly those services that require very specific preparation, such as intensive care units. ICUs not only run the risk of collapse due to limited places to care for patients, they are even worse, if possible, the shortcomings to provide relief to health personnel who care for them and who have accredited knowledge that is not easily acquired. Already the general councils of doctors and nurses were alerting about the lack of professionals and warned that the situation was not resolved with pay improvements or with wage incentives. In fact, Asturias, a community whose health managers cuddled and assumed good management during the first wave, is now saturated with ICUs and exhausted personnel, with growing discouragement and protest. And not only do we need intensive staff for our hospitals, because it will also be necessary to train workers to treat the medicalization of geriatric residences if the saturation of health centres is reached, as, on the other hand, it is already happening in several places in Spain. In any case - and I conclude this - this parliamentary initiative deserves my support, because it contributes constructively to the fight against COVID-19 at a time when we need to put together efforts and also, from the General Courts, to encourage the Government to implement the measures reflected here and to do so without delay. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u156	With venial, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. This motion put forward by the Citizens' Group at first reading for this modest Member consists of proposals that we could all support. How to oppose proposals that could end with: and peace in the world! [[Laughter]] But if we rely on the evidence accumulated in the commissions and plenary - on which we have worked a great deal, you know - and on the not so recent history of love between Citizens and the Minister of Health, it could evoke an ironic smile and make me conclude that the motion is exclusively designed for the minister, today absent, to thank Don Guillermo Díaz for his support - no doubt, after that, you would smile - but, listen, you will not even be friends with these gentlemen. [[Laughter and applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the motion starts strong, as it begins by doubting the official figures of the deceased with the epidemic of the Wuhan Coronavirus - Wuhan, China; not Buján, province of La Coruña -. It says textually - they open quotes -: The Pandemic of COVID-19 has caused damage in Spain, with a million contagions and 35 000 confirmed official deaths that, however, could rise to 45 000 or 50 000. This was presented on 28 October. According to INE estimates, 65,763 excess mortality at this time. Our group already asked in plenary seven months ago - seven months, ladies and gentlemen - and the minister was a little angry and, of course, answered the usual, so the exhibition would allow us to hope that there would be some proposal to know once and for all the actual number of dead. On the other hand, the presentation also talks about the establishment of a commission of independent experts and the conduct of an independent study on the management of the pandemic. But, oh, surprise!, to these concerns passes as to the rivers of the Kalahari desert, which flow and disappear into the sand and it turns out that there is no proposal to attend to them. What a frustration! From the committee of experts I will only indicate for our part that many scientific societies would have to make self-criticism, ladies and gentlemen, for having allowed themselves to be influenced by ideology and not having warned us of the gravity of the epidemic, but we are not going in there. We have tabled two amendments in this House that can help improve this motion. The first calls on the Government to follow the good part of WHO so that the medical certificates of death are codified in a line similar to what was presented and proposed by the College Medical Organization, that organization of 52 medical schools that has just demanded the dismissal of Mr. Simon. And it is that the WHO four months ago - four months, ladies and gentlemen - that proposes that the deceased be certified and also quantified for a clinical picture by COVID-19 even if they do not have virological evidence; not only that, but it urges to collect the probable and the suspects, and you without paying attention. Ladies and gentlemen, knowing the actual number of dead is fundamental to knowing the real dimensions of the tragedy, not just by science, but by a duty of justice for the deceased and their families. [[Applauds]] The second amendment is very simple. It is proposed that the National Health System adopt a set of strategies that have so far yielded the best results in combating the epidemic. You don't have to travel much to learn, gentlemen of the government; perhaps you have to go by subway. And look at the masks the Spaniards wear, by the way. This strategy consists of a number of measures. The first two, already addressed by our group - you know very well - are the detection of the disease by the use of screening with massive antigenic tests in the most affected areas and the detection of the virus in fecal wastewater, and the third, the use of selective isolations from the areas with the most incidence and prevalence of the virus. We believe that with these amendments your motion will look like the Okavango River, which leads to the arid steppe and transforms it into a very fertile plain. The Government is an arid steppe at the moment and possibly the proposal improved by our fertility that hermitage is the scientific and health skill of the Government. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u157	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Velasco Morillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u158	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by recalling that it has been ten months since the WHO decreed the international emergency in the face of the unstoppable spread of the virus, eight months since the government decreed the state of alarm on 14 March and four months since Sánchez said: we have defeated the virus, controlled the pandemic and doubled the curve. The result we have in Spain is the following: more than one and a half million cases of infection, more than 41 000 people died, according to the Alert Coordination Centre - which according to other agencies is more - and almost 80 000 infected healthcare professionals. A tragic balance. This shows that the head of the pandemic, Minister Illa, has failed at the new normality of Royal Decree-Law 21/2020 as a legal instrument and with an early response plan that has taken time to define homogeneous instruments for all autonomous communities on pandemic monitoring. There are many experts - those the Government has not taken into account - who have said that there has been a lack of resources, that there have been multiple errors in planning and that there has been a lack of confidence. This has led us to this second wave, where unfortunately the Government has removed itself and passed responsibility to the presidents of the autonomous communities by decreeing on 25 October the state of alarm throughout the national territory for six months, without parliamentary control and without even deigning the president to present it to Congress, using Minister Illa. Going to the state of alarm is the finding of a failure and extending it six months is proof of their lack of respect for the Constitution and the European legal framework. From the People's Parliamentary Group we proposed a state of alarm with an extension of two months, with parliamentary control, as marked by the Organic Law of the state of alarm, and under the command of the Government of Spain, as marked by the Law of Public Health. [[The lady]] This second wave is also having different behaviors regarding the number of contagions, as well as the first, and the measures were then homogeneous for the entire Spanish territory during the state of alarm: all at home with house confinement. However, we are faced with a Government that has not established any clear measures learned in the first wave as a result of the major public health crisis and with the most devastating effects on health and the economic situation that our country has experienced in recent years. Today, eight months after the first state of alarm was declared, this House calls on the Government to draw up, as a matter of urgency, a plan for health coordination and epidemiological surveillance to help curb the effects of the pandemic, an initiative that my parliamentary group has decided to improve with the introduction of an amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately there are issues that have been involved in health care since the beginning of this pandemic, one of them and very important is the valuable human capital that our National Health System has, with more than 80 000 infected health care workers, for which the Government has not yet done anything but disrespect them, as we have seen the spokesman for the pandemic do. Nothing about the salaries of professionals, nothing about the occupational disease COVID, no social dialogue, no increase in training places that alleviate the serious territorial misadjustment that exists. 3.2% is not the solution. On the contrary, at the stroke of a royal decree, like the 29/2020, it goes against the MIR training system, recognized worldwide, supporting the recruitment of doctors without the specialty, a fact that has generated the first national medical strike in twenty-five years. Next week we'll see how they manifest again. It's not all right, ladies and gentlemen. You can't exercise a specialty that doesn't have one. It is necessary to give stability to young specialists with decent and stable contracts that prevent them from continuing to leave other countries, with a return plan, with a national pool of specialties. We talk about professionals, but we can also talk about the public agency of quality assistance or shopping, the famous macro-purchase. As of today, the autonomous communities still have no material and the contract is not awarded. In short, this government will go into history to do what should not be done to fight the pandemic, because it has proved incapable in the face of the two waves of the pandemic...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u159	Mrs. Velasco, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u160	It has proved incapable of solving the structural problems of the health system and therefore unable to respond to public health needs. It would be good for the government party to commit itself to the measures that we have supported in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u161	Thank you very much, Mrs. Velasco. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Andrés Añón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u162	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, almost nights already, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Citizens for presenting this proposal, because it allows us to remind people who are sick by COVID, people who have died by COVID, and it also allows us to reiterate our appreciation to the whole of Spanish society for the enormous effort it is making to isolate the virus and cope with the effects of this pandemic. [[Applauds]] Isolating the virus and alleviating its impact, especially among the most vulnerable economic and social sectors, is from the beginning of the pandemic the priority and occupation of the Government of Spain, and proof of this are the real decrees that we have validated in this Congress. They are real policies, accompanied by real measures and economic elements that respond to that collective effort that the whole of society makes, an effort that also calls on us, Members of Parliament, to reach agreements on effective and useful measures for them and for them. Our group is in this line, that of dialogue, that of agreement, and we have also tried to do so in this proposal presented today by Citizens. We have tabled amendments to bring it into line with reality and to make it useful and effective, which is what all citizens need from us and from politics. This agreement has not been possible so far. The amendments were tabled because, under this guise of bona fide drafting, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group questions co-governance, the work done for eight months and also the value of the experts of the National Health System. You, with this proposal, call into question the competence framework set out in the Spanish Constitution in its Article 149.1, a co-governance framework which reflects the Commission's opinion - adopted here in this House - on social and economic reconstruction. The opinion not only covers the co-governance framework, but also seeks to strengthen it by establishing that the tertiary council is the collegiate body of the new co-governance of health in Spain. Instead, you propose a hierarchical order in this competitive framework. They claim that the Ministry of Health is the hierarchical superior of the autonomous governments. Do you propose that Mrs. Ayuso be under Mr. Illa's command? Is that what you're proposing here? This shockes us in a group that is called a constitutionalist and that is also part of autonomous governments. [[Applauds]] With this proposal it seems that you propose to erase all the work that has been done for eight months by the Government of Spain, by the chambers and by all the governments and autonomous chambers. You, Mr Díaz, on behalf of your group, have participated in all the health commissions, innumerable since the pandemic appeared; your group participates in the governments and has participated in the work of the Reconstruction Commission. You know perfectly well that the national plan you are proposing is drawn up quite a few days ago and the foundations are in Decree 21/2020, which we are now dealing with as a law; the plan is the Early Response Plan, adopted in July by the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. You know that the coordinated actions you propose are the early response actions that were developed and adopted by the Interterritorial Council on 22 October this year. You know that there is the strategy of early detection and control of the COVID, which is a living document to adjust it to the changing reality of the pandemic, because what we observe in the right-wing forces is that they have a lot of insecurity and a lot of inability to manage such a changing context. You know that there is a departure and a willingness to make a state public health agency and you question the experts of the National Health System, of the epidemiology services and also of the Carlos III Institute, and you always propose other people's experts. In addition to the technical criteria, advised by these experts of the National Health System, that cover all these measures, there is also...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u163	Mrs. Andres, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u164	... political will, with values and convictions that are also needed in politics, not just technical criteria. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u165	Thank you very much, Mrs. Andres. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u166	Thank you, President. With your permission, I will intervene from the seat. Mr Díaz, allow me a little joke, but you have given me the feeling that you were acting like a young Lozano in low days, but with an attitude of merit; that you were going out to the procession of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and offering yourself for the negotiation of the budgets and trying to give a few lashes to those who are in league with you. It has given me the feeling that that was almost the intention of the initiative. You said that it was the umpteenth initiative presented by your group and that it is a constructive initiative. It seems to me that it can be well-intentioned - in addition to intentional, in this case - but not all of them are constructive after the non-legislative proposal that has been tabled this morning in the Health and Consumer Affairs Committee and that has been rejected. Let me tell you this, but that was not a constructive motion, as you say, because in the background there was actually a motion of censure for all of us - for you, for me and for all of us - and it was focused from a perspective of disrespect to those who are trying to do what we can, each from their place. With regard to the motion you have tabled, our parliamentary group will vote against it because we believe that, using those functions or powers of coordination and leadership, what it does is to put forward a number of proposals that are interferences, invasions of the competence of the autonomous communities, where we have responsibilities of government, but you also have responsibilities of government. This motion is the result of an interpellation in which the minister, in his reply, already told him what coordination measures were being taken from within the ministry. They have been reminded, Decree-Law 21/2020, the Early Response Plan, but also from the autonomous communities are being acted upon, plans are being designed and are being implemented. The situation is so changing, so complex, so uncertain, so disorderly in appearance; it is so uncertain in its evolution, with such terrible consequences, that it must be subject to continuous review. But you rule and it would be as much as saying that you rule without planning. We govern and have health responsibilities. It would be as much as saying that we rule without planning, and that is not true. What we can do is let the control work of the governments, of the executives be done by those chambers which correspond to the executives, each in its own competence: the autonomous communities, in the parliaments of the territorial assemblies; we, the work of the Government and also the work of impulse. The worst thing we could do in a situation like this is to transmit to society that anyone can be continually - and we do so with good intention - putting proposals where it doesn't belong, proposals that often come in opposite directions and that only contribute to confusing and fueling more that feeling of chaos that society has. That is why, because it seems to us that it is a competitive invasion, because we believe that we must leave the people and the competent authorities who are working to continue with their task and to play the role of control and impulse in the relevant Chambers and not in anyone else, our group will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u168	Thank you, President. The motion that the Citizens' Parliamentary Group has put to debate today can be shared in part, but not in its entirety. With regard to the development and approval of a national health coordination plan that will help to curb transmission and mitigate the effects of the pandemic, we show our support for all initiatives that affect greater coordination between the central Government and the autonomous communities, always taking into account the benefit of citizens. In the explanatory statement you refer to various projects proposed by groups of scientists. We are great advocates of pandemic management based on the scientific evidence available and the experience of health professionals. That said, some of the points on which the national plan presented is based show a clear trend towards the re-centralization of competences: creation of a Spanish public health agency, implementation of the Radar COVID application. It is the autonomous communities that manage health and you know it. Catalonia has spent more than forty years with the skills transferred and from this group we reject any attempt to re-centralize and invade them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u170	Thank you, President. Citizens ask us in their omnibus motion to apply homogeneous criteria and mechanisms of response to a new wave to the entire territory of the State in a umpteenth appeal, we understand, to the re-centralizing approaches of the Spanish right. Basically that would be the summary of what this motion is for us. As the minister himself advanced in the inquiry the other day, it is true that we have to have homogeneous response criteria; we have to have common homogeneous criteria to assess above all the risk and to determine what are the appropriate response actions to that risk assessment, but the response cannot be the same in the Canary Islands, with an accumulated incidence of about 80 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, whether in Navarre or in Aragón, or Madrid, or in Catalonia, or in the Principality of Asturias, or in Andalusia, or in Valencia, with very different cumulative incidences and very different social characteristics of population density and mobility in each of those territories. These are the words of the minister himself. But even within each of these territories the variations are enormous, they are very large; the approaches differ greatly if they are applied in metropolitan areas than if they are applied in rural areas. In fact, for our group, the guarantee for greater efficiency and effectiveness is to apply the principle of subsidiarity and act from territorial surgery and to its fair extent, thus avoiding generalist measures that end up being often disproportionate. It is that of killing flies with cannons, which is what often happens with generalist measures. This is how you are acting even in the Community of Madrid, where you govern, where the units of action are the areas of health, so this decentralization seems not to be preaching it but you are able to practice it when it suits you. This is the model on which the autonomous communities are currently working, a decentralized model of consensus precisely with the Government, with the ministry. In an autonomous state where the competences in health are of the autonomous communities, what is needed are coordination mechanisms, not homogenization. In no way do the health systems of the different autonomous communities maintain substantial structural differences, as a result of almost forty years of management. And for the management of this health crisis, of the COVID-19, the coordination space has a name and has come out here, it is the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. This is the space of consensus, the space of coordination. We understand that any proposal must be agreed within that framework, which today, as a result of the emergence of the health crisis, has become the mechanism of competition coordination par excellence between the central government and the autonomous governments; coordination in bilateral agreements, not on unilateral criteria. If anything we have learned during this pandemic, it is precisely that order and command is not used to manage a crisis like this. And ultimately, the final decision and the competence for management, to implement the measures agreed upon in the interterritorial council, is of the same autonomous communities. That an autonomous community does not properly implement what has been agreed in the inter-territorial area does not indicate that coordination does not work, perhaps indicates mismanagement in that autonomous community and a problem of political responsibility of the Government of the autonomous community itself. So let us not divert our attention. Our group has always repeated that skills are to be exercised when things go well, but also when they go badly. It's called political responsibility. The interterritorial council shows that with political will, generosity and good coordination the autonomous state operates in states of emergency like the one we are living in these months. Obviously, for our parliamentary group the autonomous framework is clearly insufficient to meet the needs of our society, but this is another debate that I do not want to open here. The centralized model with strong coordination mechanisms is working precisely in other states in our environment, such as Germany or Switzerland, and we obviously agree with many of the nine points proposed in this motion, for example, the vaccination plan, the proposal for community pharmacies, pharmaceutical offices or the provision of a strategic reserve of medicines, health equipment and protective equipment, but we believe that these proposals should be discussed and agreed precisely within the framework of the interterritorial council, which exists and has been created for that purpose. To finish, a question. Do you not think that perhaps the most urgent thing now is to provide health systems with better funding so that they can carry out the agreed measures? Perhaps this is the debate we should be discussing now. That is why we are voting against your motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u172	Good afternoon. Mr Díaz of Citizens has changed his speech a little bit, he no longer says what he said this morning, when he declared that the motion was based on an initiative of fifty-five Spanish scientific societies. The initiative was called - directed at us - in health you command but you do not know. You, Lords of Citizens, are part of the Legislature and the governments of several autonomous communities, do you command but do you not know? And this slogan serves as a starting point for everything else. Look, the most representative of the signatory scientific societies is Facme, Federation of Spanish Medical Scientific Associations, which brings together fifty societies. Do you know who signed that document, which was the one that presided over that federation until a month ago? Dr. Don Antonio Zapatero, Deputy Councillor of Public Health and Plan COVID-19 of the Community of Madrid. This gentleman claims that politicians do not know and must believe that this position he currently holds is not political because he is there. I confess that the clinical doctors missed this kind of slogan a lot when we were assisting our patients during that care pressure produced by the cuts in the People's Party. We missed them when we found out how our public hospital, where we worked, was underfunded to divert money from private management to keep its profits. That private management that you so praise and defend. What it does seem is that those responsible for these scientific societies dare to give political opinions without consulting their members. I'm a member of three of them, and no one asked me anything. The initiative You send but do not know is a political sentence, not scientific, and we are not rejecting the criticism, that criticism is absolutely necessary and, if it is constructive, a little better. You always talk about transparency; not just us, you too, and you say it in the document. Look, they're panicking about transparency; panic. I remind you of one thing: in September you presented in the Committee on Foreign Affairs a GNP on global cooperation for an accessible COVID-19 vaccine and its content was very humanitarian: to defend the need in Europe for a vaccine for COVID-19 so that it is accessible to all and that the Government of Spain participates and supports financially, even demanded - I agree perfectly - to know the amount of the State's investment. Our group proposed an amendment: To ensure, within the framework of public-private collaboration, that the feasibility study of the various projects is carried out in a transparent manner and that the financial support given to different projects is reflected in the final price of vaccines and treatments. And you rejected the amendment. They do not want to hear about transparency when such transparency highlights the very high benefits of the pharmaceutical industry, which we finance to a large extent with the money of everyone, of everyone. You like business benefits to be hidden; there must be no transparency. We have nothing against the pharmaceutical industry, we just want that if it is financed with public money, which is of all, the investment is reflected in the final price of the drug. It seems common sense; you demand a lot of transparency from the government, but you, zero. Since you talk about these societies, you start with point number 1: Optimum use of available health resources both public and private, especially the beds of ICU. Do you know what happened in Madrid with the Infanta Sofia Hospital? For there are sixteen ICU beds equipped and closed, in a PFI management hospital, i.e. private funding initiative. Yesterday, November 16, a complaint was filed by dona Carmen Esbrí, spokesman of the Bureau of Public Health Defense of Madrid, against the Health Council of Madrid and the City of San Sebastián de los Reyes for non-compliance and injury to third parties regarding the Infanta Sofia University Hospital. Why don't you look at what you have within the communities where you are ruling, because this is very strong. Of course, everything needs to be made available and especially in the pandemic situation, but look what is happening to them.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u173	Mrs. Medel, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u174	Well, I'm done. The General State Budgets provide €5 million for the establishment of the State Public Health Centre and it has had to be the coalition government that actually implements the project. Thank you all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u175	Thank you very much, Mrs. Medel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Díaz Gómez, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u176	Madam President, we accept the amendment by the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Martínez Oblanca and Mr VOX, which I will accept but wear, Mr Steegmann. [[Laughter]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz Gómez. The motion will be voted on in the terms resulting from the incorporation of these three amendments. We vote in four minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you will only be able to vote from your seat, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have already cast the vote by telematic procedure cannot do so again from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, we vote first of all to take into consideration the proposal for a law amending Law 39/2006 of 14 December on the promotion of personal autonomy and care for persons in a situation of dependency, as regards participation in the cost of the benefits and services of the beneficiaries. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 243 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 105 plus 237 telematics votes, 342; against, 6 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u179	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u180	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, the Organization for the Protection of Health and Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 243 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 33 plus 65 telematics votes, 98; against, 72 plus 177 telematics votes, 249; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-17-CD201117.u181	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good night. It was eight and twenty-five minutes of the night.
