ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Juan Carlos Campo Moreno, I ask Don José Ramón Ortega Domínguez if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u2	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u3	In place of Don Pedro Duque Duque, I ask Don Lázaro Azorín Salar if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u4	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u5	In place of Isabel Celaá Diéguez, I ask Don Daniel Senderos Oraá if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u6	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u7	In place of Don Fernando Grande-Marlaska Gómez, I ask Maria Gema Araujo Morales if she swears to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u8	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u9	In place of Doña Reyes Maroto Illera, I ask Don Julio Navalpotro Gómez if he swears to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u10	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u11	In place of Don José Antonio Montilla Martos, I ask Dona María Immaculate Oria López if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u12	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u13	In place of Don Luis Planas Puchades, I ask Don Antonio Hurtado Zurera if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u14	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u15	In place of Teresa Ribera Rodríguez, I ask Gema López Somoza if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u16	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u17	In place of Dona Margarita Robles Fernández, I ask Don Manuel Arribas Maroto if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u18	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u19	In place of don Pedro Saura García, I ask dona Carmen Baños Ruiz if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u20	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u21	Don José Ramón Ortega Domínguez, don Lázaro Azorín Salar, don Daniel Senderos Oraá, dona María Gema Araujo Morales, don Julio Navalpotro Gómez, dona María Inmaculada Oria López, don Antonio Hurtado Zurera, dona Gema López Somoza, don Manuel Arribas Maroto and dona Carmen Baños Ruiz have acquired the full status of deputies. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u22	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in the part relating to the questionings, so that the urgent inquiry of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, which is on the agenda as item 25, is discussed first, and then the urgent inquiry of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa, which is on the agenda as item 24. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Thank you very much. The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted. On the other hand, I should like to inform you that, in accordance with the agreement also reached by the Board of Spokesmen, items 6 and 7 of the agenda, corresponding to the motions resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and the Plural Parliamentary Group respectively, will be discussed at tomorrow's meeting and their vote will take place at Thursday's meeting.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u23	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Organic Socialist Parliamentary Group, to reform the Organic Law 2/2012, of 27 April, on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u24	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. We begin this plenary with a necessary political proposal put forward by my group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to carry out the reform of Organic Law 2/2012, on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, a debate that is neither new in this House nor alien to the majority of the Members we are here. - I would have liked to have seen today the bench of the full People's Group, since they are so opposed to this reform, but they must be busy in other things, even if they then defend it in shouts, ladies and gentlemen. It is a proposed law to amend a single point of the law, article 15, paragraph 6, of this organic law, giving it greater coherence to the norm, adapting it to the mandate of the Constitution on the functioning and powers of the General Courts. And, yes, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you very clearly from the beginning. With this proposal the Socialist Party wants to put an end to a democratic anomaly, such as that the Senate has the capacity to block a Council of Ministers agreement that ultimately corresponds only to this House, to the Congress of Deputies. Gentlemen of the People's Party, in 2018 you were wondering if we would be here debating this proposal if the People's Party had not obtained an absolute majority in the Senate from the Spaniards, and you said no. Well, it is. Here we are discussing this proposal and now it is the PSOE that has an important majority in the Senate. Do you know why we're here? Probably for something you do not understand, ladies and gentlemen: that the Socialist Party does not use the institutions according to its interests. [[Applauds.-Protests]] That is the difference, ladies and gentlemen, between you and us. And I could almost end up here, but we have a bigger responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting a legislature with fundamental challenges for the economic, political and social development of Spain, and for this it is crucial that we have a clear - let them be clear - framework of the powers of the Executive and the Legislature. To confuse them - a practice so widespread by one side of this House - only leads to more disaffection of citizens towards politics and politicians. What is healthy in a mature and consolidated democracy like ours, after forty years of career and good functioning of the institutions, would be that today this bill would come forward with broad support and consensus in the face of an abnormal situation that if perpetuated in time would harm our country. It would be healthy, but unfortunately it is not what is expected since they do not understand that they have lost the elections, that the Spanish have withdrawn their majority confidence and that their strategy of the blockade does not lead anywhere. They are blocking the renewal of constitutional bodies and institutions essential for the proper functioning of our democracy. They block the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, the Constitutional Court and the Ombudsman; they also block the renewal of the Spanish Radio and Television Corporation. Everything, ladies and gentlemen, because they do not understand or respect that the PSOE has won the general elections and that the citizens will also put them in their place in the upcoming elections of Galicia and the Basque Country, despite their flight to the desperate - they are willing to everything -, as we are seeing these days in the Basque Country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] I deeply regret having to tell you this because you are doing everything and more when you try to normalize the extreme right of VOX in a society, the Basque, that all you want is to live in peace and freedom and ensure coexistence after many years of suffering, ladies and gentlemen. [[protests]] [[Applauds]] It is our duty to represent politics and to demonstrate that we occupy these 350 seats to defend national sovereignty and the general interest, which is the same as defending the Spaniards and the Spanish. In addition, as you know, this Thursday, too, in this House, we will discuss and approve the non-financial expenditure limit and the deficit and debt targets set by the Government for 2020, which, should they be approved, will serve as the basis for drawing up the draft General State Budgets. Spain needs, as soon as possible, new budgets adapted to the reality of the needs of our country today, such as the one we are experiencing these days, which is the greatest attention to our primary sector, to farmers and livestock farmers, and to all those involved in the food chain because, without the countryside, ladies and gentlemen, there is no possible future. On 11 February, the Council of Ministers and Ministers approved an expenditure ceiling of EUR 127 600 million by 2020, an increase of 3.8% over this year 2019 and a deficit target of 1.8% of GDP, conservative figures reflecting that fiscal consolidation and the reduction of inequalities, coupled with the Socialist Party's commitment to inclusive and sustainable growth, are one of the cross-cutting axes of this progressive government. The debt of the general government as a whole closed in 2019 at 95.5% of GDP, falling 4 tenths below the government target and recording the lowest figure since 2012, according to data from the Banco de España. This debt reduction clearly shows the Government's effort to clean up public accounts while meeting the objectives we have communicated to Brussels for the whole year. This Government is therefore demonstrating that it is possible to reduce the deficit and debt, while strengthening the welfare state and recovering rights for the working class as a whole. Probably, because of all that, they're making so much noise these days to try to confuse and deceive, ladies and gentlemen. It is in this context that we are facing the reform of this Budget Stability Act. The wording in its current state imposes a legislative process for the approval of the objectives of stability that does not respect the position attributed by our Constitution to the General Courts in their role of Congress of Deputies and the Senate, and opens the door to the political blockade that can endanger the fulfilment of the budgetary obligations assumed by our country. With the new wording, we want to go back to the 2007 drafting of the General Stability Act, giving it greater legislative coherence. The change is also based on the need to give agility to the process of the stability path, and consequently to the approval of the General State Budgets for 2020, and introduces the fully-guaranteed double-turn system recognized by the 1978 Constitution. That is, if the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt were approved by Congress were rejected by the Senate, they would return to the Congress of Deputies for approval and ratification by a simple majority; otherwise, we would maintain a legal inconsistency by giving the Senate that power over the decision of Congress and would mean maintaining some powers to the Senate that are not contained in the Constitution because the Upper House, ladies and gentlemen, is empowered as a second-round House. The absurdity of such a situation can also be seen because the Senate has the possibility of vetoing the approval of deficit targets, but then it would not be able to veto the approval of the General State Budgets. They also understand - although little, surely not out of ignorance or ignorance, but out of self-will - the purpose for which the figure of the Senate was recovered in the constituent process that ended with the 1978 Constitution. It is a Chamber of Territorial Representation - you know, ladies and gentlemen - in which those issues that have to do with the territorial composition of our country and the configuration of the state of self-government must be dealt with in the main. Ladies and gentlemen, in the opposition and in the government the Members who are here today must ensure the general interest and always defend the interests of the citizenry. That is why, following only the causes for which the blockade in this law is unacceptable in our democracy, I am going to detail them very briefly. First, because it limits the competence of the Executive, recognized in article 134 of our Constitution, to draw up the general budgets of the State. Secondly, because it limits the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities and local authorities, which are also limited in the preparation of their budgets. Thirdly, because it gives rise to a situation of parliamentary blockage in the approval of deficit targets, as the Council of State acknowledged. Fourthly, because the commitments made by Spain, within the European Union, require that our country has a procedure for approving the objectives of budgetary stability and of agile and adequate public debt; therefore, to want to invoke the Senate - as some will do here today - to prevent it from being legislated in a trappy way is to tell reality half-way and is another instrument of its campaign of contempt, not this government, not the Socialist Party or the United Nations We can, but politics, ladies and gentlemen, as a tool to improve people's lives. Finally, consideration is also needed for the municipalities, for their mayors, whom you forget very soon between these four walls. Town halls have played a key role during the harsh years of economic crisis. The latter have endured the imposition of their austerity policies more than anyone else. We must therefore try to reach agreements so that those who have fulfilled their duties can invest their surplus in investments or in social or employment policies, the targets of which will be the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary blockade is the worst policy, the most detestable, that those who do not understand that in democracy it is as important to know how to win as to know how to lose. To want to prevent today that a new path of deficit will be approved as soon as possible little or nothing benefits our country's economic and political stability. Oppose the government, ladies and gentlemen, control it in that which does not do good, but do not punish the Spaniards by denying them the progress and progress of our country. For one day, do a good policy exercise and allow this legislature to move forward with democratic normality. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u25	Thank you, Mr. Casares. He called for the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and, to that end, Mr Garcés Sanagustín had the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today, Mr Casares, you are laughing at yourself from Puntal Beach to Molinucos Beach, when you say that we are going to lose the elections. How many choices have you lost in Santander? [[Laughter and applause]] Youth is a divine treasure, but it is also necessary to achieve doses of measure and balance and to know what to say when one goes up to a rostrum, because usually dialectics provoke some reaction. I'm not here to teach you lessons, but I am going to tell you something. I'm going to do an introspective and retrospective analysis of what happened 20 years ago. Twenty years ago a government presidential adviser - as you are right now, presiding over the government - who was in the Seed Building was commissioned by the President of the Government to draft a draft budget stability law. With the collaboration and teaching of people who are here, such as Elvira Rodríguez - who was then Secretary of State for Budgets - that adviser began working on that Budget Stability Act. It was the first law on budgetary stability not only in Spain, but throughout Europe; when there was no institutional or Community restriction and when we were an example for all the countries of the rest of the European Union. Casualities of life, that counselor is right now talking to you. I drafted that law thanks, I insist, to the teaching of some people - mothers and fathers of that law - that we were there and that we allowed in some way that right now that you called the financial LOAPA, that you denounced - because you considered it to be a law of harmonization of the Spanish public financial system - constitutes the budgetary rule of the public financial system in our country. That is the reality and I say it, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, because their conversions are surprising. At that time you filed a constitutional appeal, obviously you did not agree with the Budget Stability Act. [[Rumors]] Ten years later Zapatero had a phenomenon like the one we are seeing these days, of conversion. It soon turned to budgetary stability and reformed article 135 of the Constitution with the support, of course, of this group. I do not know where they are now, beyond Mr Casares's argument - which has passed him to read it -; I simply do not know where they are right now in the area of budgetary stability, but I will tell you one thing: where we are. We are in stability and multilateralism. I know that you were not there, I know that you did not participate in the drafting process, I know that you then assumed it as something of your own, not as an imposition, not as a legal imperative, but as a political conviction, and I thank you. They did so out of necessity and opportunity, because of the crisis in this country, and because after the mistakes of 2009 and 2010 they had to change the Constitution with the aim of giving a positive message to the markets and the European Union. That was the Socialist Party of that time. Ten years ago, we talked about a decade ago. How we've changed, how we've changed! Do you know what tomorrow is? I'm not a man of deep religious convictions, but tomorrow is Ash Wednesday. I'm sure you won't remember on the Ash Wednesday bench and you'll be worried about the commemorations and celebrations of other religions, which I think is very good on the other hand. But do you know what happens on Ash Wednesday? Bury the sardine. Do you know what it means to bury the sardine and the ash? It is a process, in some ways, of eliminating the past, sublimating voidness and exalting nullity. Tomorrow when you meet at that absolutely unconstitutional table you will be burying the past! , and they will be burying multilateralism, they will be burying the negotiation of a common project, which is Spain. [[applause]] You have traveled with us in this transit for forty years; I have known some of you over the past decades, and I do not recognize you. Honestly, I don't recognize them. Twenty-four hours remain for that meeting, I appeal to your responsibility, to your sanity, to your sense of history, to your sense of historical socialism - which we will talk about here today -. Can you stop that meeting from taking place tomorrow? Can you stop it? Can those hidden voices of the Socialist Party, not just the historic socialism of the 1980s and 1990s, appeal to us not to hold that meeting tomorrow? Mr. Casares, can you do that, talking so much about the Senate, Congress? Now let's talk about it. They were years in which Ibarretxe from Loiu to Barajas came with his plan Ibarretxe, and had to sink it. Remember how they ended up. It was the time of Basque nationalism in its greatest exaltation. And it was the time when there was no Junts per Cat, it was a time when Catalonia was a project where we could share, where I called Catalonia's pragmatic and possible nationalism of Convergence i Unified and responded, and we even reached agreements, and absolutely nothing happened, because we participated in the same project, the same unit of coexistence, the same unit of action. Because we were all together, all the Spaniards lived where they lived...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u27	Mr Garcés, there is flexibility on the part of the Presidency to use the rostrum, but the agenda item is the consideration of a proposal for a law amending the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability. [[Protests.-Applause.]] You've had a margin, but I'm asking you, please, if you can answer the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u28	President, I will; of course; of course, out of parliamentary courtesy. I am a person of absolute sanity, so I would like, in any case, the rest of the speakers in this rostrum also to abide by the reform of the Budget Stability Act. [[Applauds]] What role does the Senate have? Because here, fundamentally, we are talking about the role of the Senate. Because the reform brought here by the Socialist Parliamentary Group is a reform on the role of the Senate. Of course, what they propose is that when in the Senate - which acted as a double filter, as a territorial chamber - the path of budgetary stability is not approved, the text is returned directly to the Congress of Deputies and voted directly by a simple majority. What are you guys? Those who follow the Llop doctrine, that of the president of the Senate, who says that the Senate must be strengthened? The first rule that addresses the legitimacy and role of the Senate in Spain is to shorten the functions of the Senate. Tell the President of the Senate, tell her senators, because it's amazing, and to the rest of the nationalist forces, didn't we insist that the Senate had to be a House of Territorial Representation?, that we had to strengthen the legitimacy function of the Senate? Isn't it worth it anymore? Do you know why it's not worth it? Because for you the Senate is no longer necessary - and here I do stick to the agenda - because when the paths of stability are no longer multilaterally analysed in a process of constant allocation and under the permanent discussion of all autonomous agents, what do we do? To negotiate bilaterally. You have broken the model of multilateralism. It's very serious. Tomorrow's meeting is very serious, but I'm going to stick to what I have to stick to, obviously. Because you've never believed in the Senate. Do you know that in 1931, when the Constitution of the Republic was adopted, they proposed a unicameral model? They didn't believe in the territories either. By the way, they also did not believe in equality; they were the years in which they believed that women could not vote. [[Protests.-Ladies Cantera de Castro and Berja Vega utter words that are not perceived]] The Republicans also thought that the woman could not vote, it was the year 1931. The model was unicameral, it was the radical cedist government in 1935 that proposed that there be a double House, which finally did not prosper, in June 1935, because the Socialist Party did not want there to be two Houses. We're in exactly the same situation. What surprises me most are the arguments, and I would ask you to measure the terms a little more when you draft a bill. To say that the current rule is a 'normary abnormality' seems to me an insult to intelligence. You may or may not agree with a law, but to say that it is a normative abnormality... - That's what they have in the text, read the third paragraph. That is, that the Senate exercises its role as a territorial chamber for the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party is a normative abnormality. Eye! And you confuse all concepts. What does the procedure for drawing up the State General Budgets Act have to do with the adoption of the budgetary stability path? It has nothing to do with it, Mr. Casares. In the proposal, what they say is that it has to be managed and channelled through the same administrative procedure. Listen, no, it is that the State General Budgets Act affects only the accounts of the state public sector and the path of budgetary stability of the autonomous communities, of course, should require some form of endorsement by the territorial representative body. It has nothing to do with the procedure, the content and the material scope, absolutely nothing. I ask you to write better. If you tell me it's distorting... to say that this is a political blockade, to call the political blocking Senate... You accompanied us in the implementation of article 155 of the Constitution. By the way, a rule imported directly from the Bonn Basic Law. Now it's no longer worth anything; two and a half years later it's no use, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party has been prescribed, a new era begins and, most surprising, is that they are condemning one of the organs that had to have greater brilliance and representativeness as the Senate is. Why? I insist, for an obvious reason, because they are no longer interested, because they know that negotiation is on other tracks; because this is a spectacle where multilaterally negotiations, pacts, agreements and conventions are developing differently. Mr. Casares, that's the reality. That they also say in the proposal - which is also another insult to legal and ontological intelligence - that this is or may be a disturbance, from the point of view of the implementation of the objectives of the European Union, is false. You know very well that in the field of Community law we have to respect the institutional and instrumental logic of the Member States and in Spain there is a bicameral regime based also on a second Chamber and not just on reading. It is that you come to say in the proposal - I insist, please ask you to review it - that we have imperfect bicameralism. Go to England, Germany, Belgium, all European countries that are bicameral. There are only two decentralized countries in the world that do not have a Senate, namely Micronesia and New Zealand. I don't know if you want us to go to the level of Micronesia and New Zealand; good things will have Micronesia and New Zealand, but I ignore them. I just don't think it's a ballad theme what you come to contribute here today, it's not a minor issue, it's not a marginal issue, because it means hitting, once again, one of the great representative institutions of our country as the Senate is. Are you in favour of the Llop doctrine?, in favour of the Iceta doctrine, which seems like a kind of rugby championship? The eight or nine nation tournament, we don't really know if it's eight or if it's nine. Are we in favour of asymmetric bilateralism, multilateral asymmetry? What's that? That's right, faith-of-ra-lis-mo. What is federalism? Can you explain what federalism is? That there is no Upper House? That the Senate no longer has any repercussions? Be aware that the first bill - this I will remind you several times during this legislature, lasts as long as it lasts - its first step has been to curtail the jurisdiction of the Senate. The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party! Who has seen them and who sees them! And tomorrow, I insist, it will be a new day. Obviously, President, I'm not going to talk about that. But, unfortunately, I would not have liked to come today, Mr Casares, to give you the reply to insist that this seems to me to be an absolutely unacceptable intellectual and legal exercise. But, above all, it coincides with Ash Wednesday. Ash, I insist, is a sign of nothingness. Stop it. Stop it, and I'm sure the Spaniards will thank you. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Garcés. Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u30	Your Honor, good allusion to my land, a wonderful land, Santander and Cantabria. They forgot, when they told him the account of the facts, that the People's Party, their party, has had the worst result in these last elections in many years and has had to agree with the extreme right of VOX and Citizens to stay in the chair of the Mayor's office; Your Honor, they did not tell him the second part. [[applause]] [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, don't get nervous. You're the ones who decided to make a deal with VOX. We're seeing it with those appeals they're making in the Basque Country, in that run-away I told you before. But let's get to the point, gentlemen of the People's Party. I asked where this government is, where this progressive government is. I will tell you one thing, Mr Citizens' Spokesman: this is the only government that is meeting the deficit and debt targets set by Brussels, compared to all the years of non-compliance with the governments of Mariano Rajoy. [[ccccccccc]] [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] That is what this progressive government is about; that is the reality of the figures. He is the only one who is fulfilling his commitments to Brussels, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to that allusion that the president was telling you about that obsession that you have with everything that's going on in this country, do you know what is responsibility? Responsibility is to try to ensure that this country has a future of coexistence between all the citizens and all the territories of Spain, including Catalonia; that is responsibility. And what is not responsibility is illegal referendums and their unilateral declarations of independence under the governments of the People's Party; that is not responsibility, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Yes, we want the Senate to be a House of Territorial Representation, we want that to be the role of the Senate. But, of course, I invite you - and I invite you to amend yourself in the face of everything you have said in the Senate - to make us a proposal on what your Senate reform is, what role you want to give the Senate. But, look, you're not going to meet with the opposition of your Citizens and VOX partners, who want to suppress the Senate; you're just as angry and put your parliamentary agreements at risk in many places. Therefore, I invite you to tell us what role you want to give the Senate. And in that role that you want, that role that you say you have to occupy the territorial representation, the Senate, I ask you: Only if it suits you do we respect what the Senate or all the bodies of territorial representation say? I say this because they seem to have forgotten that the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council has approved deficit targets and budgetary stability. They do not like to hear it, they do not respect that body, in fact, for the participation of all the autonomous communities and the Government of the nation. Therefore, what we ask you to do, Your Honor, is to comply with this amendment of the Budget and Financial Stability Act, because it is a law that seeks to give normality to our framework of coexistence, to our relations with the Courts, to the role of the Senate and Congress, Your Honor, not because it is said by the Socialist Group, United We can or the Government of the nation, but because it is enshrined in the Spanish Constitution. What you did was pervert that constitutional framework that you so many times talk about but so many times respect little, ladies and gentlemen. So that is what this is about; do not confuse the whole of the House anymore, approve this amendment. And then I invite you to something about what you have not picked up the glove, to work together with all the parliamentary groups with the government to continue to reform this Law of budgetary stability and to give oxygen to the municipalities of all Spain that have met the objectives of budgetary stability so that they can reverse their surplus in investment for social policies, employment and investment. That is what we have to be in, Your Honor, and not in your inventions that you continually try to bring to this House to deceive the whole of the citizenry. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Casares. Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Keep laughing on the beaches of Santander: still the Spanish Socialist Workers Party has not ruled Santander in forty years of democracy. [[Applauds]] Keep laughing on the beaches of Santander, Mr. Casares, keep laughing. And even in college you laugh too, Mr. Casares. They laugh at the university and the beaches, from Bikini to El Puntal; they laugh at all the beaches of what they just said. You have had a mistake: I am not the spokesman for Citizens; I have good friends. Look, I prefer Spain Summarize Spain, because its is the closest thing to Orwell and Miura, it is a strange mixture, in which, from the proposals that make of universal basic income and so on, you will see what budgetary stability will remain and what we will talk about in the coming months: absolutely nothing, because it will be impossible to practice and, moreover, it will be a policy absolutely contrary to the most basic principles of freedom and equality; you will see it. I remember again what I said to you: it is the first proposal of law that you bring to the House and it is a proposal of law, it will not deny me materially, which reduces... [[Several Members: No, the second]] It is the second - the first I also remember, we could also talk about it - and they will not deny me that it reduces the Senate's powers. Is that right or not? That's right. You may use the material arguments you want, but you are decimating the jurisdiction of the Senate, you are stealing a competition that the Senate had; yes, you are stealing a competition that the Senate had. They justify it because of the possible political blockade that exists. Your Honor, that the bicameral operation in a country is questioned by a possible political blockade is to deny the very legitimacy and essentialism of bicameralism. But, I insist, is that you have never believed or have believed very rarely in bicameralism in Spain, very rarely, and it was demonstrated here when the 1931 Constitution was debated at the time. You spoke before absences on our bench. Here is an absence that is even more pathetic and absurd: I am seeing the blue bench plagued with absences. [[Several Members of Parliament: They are in the Senate]] Surely they are in the process of preparing not, of course, for the reform of the Senate, but for something else that is worse, honourable Member, and you know very well what it is. [[Rumors]] We are talking about two models of country conception: a model based on multilateralism, not only territorial solidarity, but, above all, individual solidarity; we are people's solidarity. We are trying to explain that in the People's Party we believe in a model where the Senate has territorial Chamber consciousness, where the convictions of each of the territories can be expressed, and you don't. You, for an apparent political blockade... And, by the way, you are going to tell me under what mortgage you want to reform the Budget Stability Act, when you don't need this procedure right now to approve the spending ceiling or the stability path. Who told you? Which partner told you that? What partner has he told them that they need to reform the Stability Act? For knowing, because this is playing the ten niggers, to see who it was. Let's imagine that it could have been one because it doesn't interest you, or perhaps because you want to secure your next budget because you want to govern for four years with a single budget or, at most, with two budgets and pull forward as you can; that's a reality. I insist - I do not want to deviate from the debate, and with this I conclude, Madam President - here two models are proposed: a model of peaceful coexistence, natural between the territories, where the Senate constitutes the very essence of the identity of each of the territories with its representation, where they have their senators - some former presidents of communities of the Socialist Party, great politicians of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, just as there are great politicians of the People's Party. They're being cut off from you. Faced with this multilateral model of Senators' participation in the determination of objectives, invoking the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council is graceful: nineteen months without convening the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, Mr. Casares, nineteen months; it had not happened in the whole history of democracy. That is indeed an administrative anomaly, because the minister had an obligation to call him twice, and summon him as he calls him, in order to deny the autonomous communities the resources that they owe them; yes, in order to deny the 25 billion euros that they owe them. [[rumors]] [[Rumors]] By the way, don't face me, and ask the president of the Junta de Castilla-La Mancha, among others, who has already denounced them; ask their own presidents of autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] I'm done. At a time when truth is prostituted, at a time when truth is disturbed, at a time when truth is diluted politically, there is only one truth, which is the legal truth. Therefore, I say to you: the issue of VAT will be answered in the courts, which is where the truth apparently flourishes, because it cannot be otherwise. I insist - and I conclude - there are two models: the model of territorial representation that believes in autonomous Spain, that believes in a strong decentralized Spain, and that model of rupture, where, as I say, there are unconstitutional tables that will be inaugurated tomorrow. And once again, socialist gentlemen, I say to you: avoid it. I ask from my utmost responsibility and my individual conscience. Make sure it doesn't happen tomorrow. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Garcés. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. Two characteristics distinguish the arrival of the socialists to the government: the first is that employment is resentful and the high priority of the Spaniards, which is to get work, is faced with greater difficulties in achieving it and even many lose it - see the latest EPA -. The second singularity of the arrival of a socialist government in Moncloa is the return to the path. Today, with this in mind, they claim that in Spain we return to the steps of discretion, indiscipline, miscontrol, demadre and demadre in the management of the money of all Spaniards. It should be recalled that the organic law that they want to amend was the response demanded by the European Union to the unusual blow of public accounts dug by the government of Rodríguez Zapatero, which culminated on 7 September 2011 with the lightning reform of article 135 of the Spanish Constitution in the garbage minutes of the X Legislature; constitutional reform that today President Sánchez voted in favour, although now he refuses it, and that I, senator of that one, voted against because the ruinous situation of Spain was the exclusive product of the economic calamity of the management of the Socialist Party. Again, Sánchez intends to reduce the Senate to the role of House and wants the free budget bar to be recovered or, which is the same, the discontrol of spending that dragged all administrations into the disaster, several million Spaniards into unemployment and the breakdown of the constitutional consensus, step before the breakdown of the coexistence system that the Spaniards gave us in 1978. I'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. At first glance, this is a matter of legal and procedural appearance, but it has a great political burden. The Spanish Constitution is not a perfect system, but there is enough coherence, despite the changes it needs. In some respects it is quite well thought out and thought through, and there is a clear procedure as to the role of the Senate in passing the laws. It is not clear from the spirit of the Constitution that the Senate can have an absolute veto over the pronouncement of the Congress of Deputies. That function of cooling coffee, which was typical of the 19th century senates, of the aristocratic senates, was established above all to stop the inflames of the Lower House of the people, which could correct the senate. This is no longer the spirit we currently have. For this reason, the change introduced by Law 2/2012 on the previous Law of 2007 could be interpreted as a constitutional anomaly, because the laws must have a vocation of permanence and cannot be changed to the taste or measure of the majority that exists at every moment. In this case, not only was there no justification in the 2012 change, but the most striking thing is that it was a matter that only indirectly had to do with the concept of the Territorial Chamber that grants the Senate the Constitution. And in a matter of as much silence as this, intrinsically related to the Budgets Act, to the Tax Measures Accompanying Act, it is logical, by analogy, that the approval of these Council agreements when they come to the Courts follow the same procedure as the rest of the laws. That is why we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. Finally, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. I must first announce that New Canarias and the Canary Coalition will vote in favour of taking into consideration this proposal for an organic law, which, on the other hand, is necessary for the formulation of the General Budgets of the State. In fact, this organic law is the development of the reform of article 135 of the Spanish Constitution that was made, as is known, in 2011. At that time, the priority was to pay the debt, to pay the capital interest, in the face of the development of the major public policies and the public investment of the State. And the consequences are what we know: a dramatic deterioration of the great public services and the quality of life of many people. However, there are two aspects to this approach which is being taken today: one explicit and one which is not. With regard to the explicit, what is formulated in this bill seems to us to be absolutely reasonable: it is a question of amending article 6, which establishes a Senate primacy over Congress in this matter. We believe that it has no legitimacy and that it is neither reasonable nor responsive to the constitutional spirit, since in a bicameral system it must be this House that prevails in the event that there are conflicting positions between the two Houses. And the other is not covered by this bill, and therefore I announce that we will submit the corresponding amendments when it is time to refer to section 12 of this 2012 law on the spending ceiling. A definition is established that exceeds the objectives, including the reform of Article 135. It is an enormously restrictive measure, which has resulted in the inability of local corporations and some autonomous communities to meet their stability objectives and the criteria clearly established by law to say that they are in the right position. Well, they do not have the potential to use the huge fiscal surplus that has been occurring since 2012; a huge damage to the interests of the populations that are served by both the local corporations that they comply with and the autonomous communities that they comply with. This is an issue that must be resolved. It is clear that the measures that have been taken to make this issue more flexible have not been enough: too much money in banks and too much needs in the streets. We are therefore going to put forward amendments linked to Article 12 of this Budget Stability Act, because we believe that it is unreasonable for local corporations and self-governing communities to be treated worse than those that do not. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u39	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u40	Thank you, President. Sweep on, good afternoon. Today we are again discussing this proposal, and I say that we are returning because we are recovering a bill that was already debated in September 2018, a proposal that seeks to amend the Stability Act to allow the rejection or veto in the Senate of the objectives of stability and public debt to be lifted in Congress by a simple majority, that is, to return to the wording of the old Article 8(3) and (4) of the 2007 Stability Act. We already said it in 2012. The People's Party amended section 15.6, with an absolute majority, leaving the final approval of the deficit targets to the Senate, i.e. to a House whose function has normally been of second reading and without veto capacity, and they did so on the grounds of territorial function or representation. They said that deficit targets affect the budgets of the autonomous communities and local corporations, and that is true, and that is why they had to be given that capacity or representation. But the truth is that there were other reasons, and it is that normally in the Senate the People's Group has always had better results. In turn, the PSOE defended the reform of the stability law, arguing that it did not eliminate that decision-making capacity of the autonomous communities because both deficit and debt targets were negotiated in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. But the truth is that neither justification is entirely true, because, on the one hand, the vote of the senators does not correspond to territorial criteria, but to the decisions of the political parties to which they belong, and, on the other hand, the same can be said of the vote of the presidents of the autonomous communities in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. On the other hand, it must be said that the difference between the proposal that we are debating today and the debate in 2018 lies in the procedure, and that the reform that is presented today will follow here the ordinary way of processing, and not the emergency route that was proposed in 2018, and all this because now the majority in the Senate have also changed, although we are also afraid that its entry into force will be delayed if this reform succeeds today. Having said that, and apart from other justifications, this group will vote in favour of this proposal for organic law for the following reasons: to eliminate the exceptionality that exists around the rules related to the spending ceiling and deficit targets, to avoid the veto of the Senate and that the Senate act as a second reading chamber, so that these rules are governed by the general regime that is applied in the courts to pass the laws and to end an anomaly that may be negative for the approval of budgets, whoever is in the government, and therefore to speed up the path of stability. That is why we will vote in favour, as I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. I beg a little silence, please. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De Quinto Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing to take into consideration a proposal for a law that seeks to amend section 5.6 of the Act on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, which contains the Senate's veto on the adoption of stability objectives. This veto was introduced by the People's Party in 2012 when it enjoyed the absolute majority of that House. In the XII Legislature, after the motion of censure, the Socialist Party already brought this reform, most likely to bypass the insurmountable wall that the Senate assumed for the General Budgets of the State. But he brought this badly-bred reform, and I explain myself: he brought it in an opportunistic way, at a very specific political moment and tried to sneak it double hidden in a norm - hallucinator, ladies and gentlemen - on the training of judges in gender-based violence - I suppose some of you will still remember -. That was a tremendous scandal in your day, a premonitional scandal of the many whom you, gentlemen of the ERE bench, have been trying to get used to lately. Seen from a perspective and in cinematographic terms, that chapuza they made today would seem to us to be Bambi compared to the Delcygate or with the recent appointment of the Attorney General of the State or with the refusal of the government parties to investigate the trafficking of children protected, that is, under your protection in the Balearic Islands, because all this last of Bambi has very little; rather, we want a saga of terror. That proposal for reform of the PSOE passed the procedure of consideration and, during the parliamentary debate, Citizens presented an amendment to the whole in which we proposed to eliminate the veto of the Senate, but replacing it by a strengthened majority in Congress in case of return by the Senate. And today we keep thinking exactly the same thing. Citizens rejected, rejected and will continue to reject these procedural issues being tactically legislated by traditional parties, depending on their electoral circumstances. For our part, we understand that today's conditions have changed. The proposal they bring us does not respond this time to a punctual and tactical interest nor is it hidden, like a file inside a bread bar. For this reason, Citizens are willing to give the yes to the consideration of this draft organic law reform, hoping that during its processing we will be able to replace the current Senate veto by that strengthened majority in Congress. But this vote, of course, does not anticipate our vote in favour of its spending ceiling. We understand that justifying the maintenance of the Senate veto with the argument that stability objectives affect the autonomous communities is, at least, naif, because all the laws emanating from Congress affect all the autonomous communities, without distinction, and that is not why the Senate has the right of veto over each and every one of them. In addition, through the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, stability objectives are negotiated beforehand with all communities or, at least, with those who decide to participate. So let us not leave things as they are; let us leave them as they were, because sometimes changes, far from improving things, make them worse, and as an example we have the procedure of election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. I would like to conclude by pointing out to the ERE bench that this parliamentary group, to which they continually refer as irrelevant, is not. The unrelevance you find us is nothing compared to your ethical and moral unrelevance, because what we are is a full and honest parliamentary group that, apart from not putting its hand in the public money box, does not lie in campaign to its voters promising them that they will not bargain with populists and nationalists and then they will. I would also like to remind you that the ten citizens' Members of this House are supported by the votes of 1 640 000 voters; 1 640 000 Spaniards who seem to you to be worth less than the 870 000 of the Republican Left, which has almost half of our voters, or the 377 000 of the PNV, a quarter of our voters - gentlemen who leave that bank that is empty in front of me - or the 276 000 voters in Bildu. By the way, if you know how to add, you will know that the sum of these three, very relevant groups for you, add up together less votes than the votes that citizens add up. [[Applauds]] Exactly these three groups, which are so important to you, add up to 1 520 000 Spaniards, compared to our 1 640 000 Spaniards. But of course, our voters do not seem to be creditors of their respect, probably because they are not independentists or because they do not cut roads or burn containers, or because we are territorially supportive, or because we are loyal to the Constitution. In any case, look, I'd rather stay with our unrelevance a thousand times than kneel, as you kneel, before disloyal parties with Spain and insolidarians with the Spanish. And I prefer it before giving them up shamefully all that you give them, negotiating tables outside the constitutional framework, such as the shameful table that we are all going to have to endure tomorrow, changes from the Criminal Law to the letter, whitening of your past on the expública radio, transfer of Social Security or prisons, and money and more money from all Spaniards towards them. Gentlemen of the ERE bench, take a look at your concept of irrelevant and, above all, look in the mirror and observe the moral relevance that remains for you once the absent Sanchez has dragged you across all the ethical red lines that you yourselves had marked. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u43	Thank you, Mr. De Quinto. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u44	Thank you, Madam President. For the BNG, the problem is not the procedural amendment proposed by the Stability Act itself, as a result of the reform of article 135 of the Constitution, which is absolutely unacceptable because of its reactionary, centralizing and anti-social nature, and which constitutes a brutal attack on the already scaly powers of the autonomous communities and, therefore, also on the capacity of our nation, Galicia, to decide its budgetary policy. Curiously here the social democracy and the conservative right were able to agree to apply the so-called financial orthodoxy to the taste of the European Union, even at the expense of sacrificing social policies and proceeding with a profound re-centralisation, which particularly affected the communities under the common system, since it did not have a genuine financial autonomy or a fiscal policy of its own, which is the basis for a self-government that begins to deserve this name, is added, through this organic law, to the annulment of its own budgetary policy. Today, this Law of Stability is the instrument by which policies called austerity, which began on the pretext of the crisis and which in their day were sold as temporary or exceptional, aim to impose themselves as a norm and end up becoming permanent; always, I insist, to the detriment of the social majority and the interests of the working classes and the nations of the State. That's why, and I finish, for the BNG this is the real problem. This is what we really need to discuss, with the aim of putting an end to it and not simply what House has the power to approve the limitations it entails. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u45	Thank you, Mr. Rego. I have the floor for the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u46	Thank you, Madam President. In 2018, a motion of censure was debated in this House that brought the People's Party out of the government, splashed by deep corruption scandals. We then said that this was not the solution to a good part of the wreckage in Spain, but that it unlocked and opened the possibility of moving. Today, we still have to rebuild a very good part of what is broken by the unjust and ineffective policies of the People's Party: the Law on gags, labor reform, the so-called Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Administration, which in practice stifled the municipalities. We are going to vote in favour of this measure because it seems to us that it involves moving in a sense of unlocking. We announce that just as we missed this measure, we miss the unlocking of the Spanish Broadcasting Council and the General Council of the Judiciary, because the amendment that is being opened today is a modification that will correct an abnormal law of financial exceptionality. It was actually designed to foster a regrettable policy of re-centralisation and cutbacks. Recentralisation, which was in fact a change of constitution, because it began to change the state of autonomy through the back door in a sense of more concentration of power in the central administration against the autonomous communities and the municipalities, and economically disastrous because it meant making the costs of the crisis pay to the subaltern sectors with a suicide policy that said that in the face of the crisis it was necessary to dig deeper. And how did this happen? Delivering a veto to the Senate, to a House marked by immense disproportionality and for producing artificial majorities. You thus harden a tradition of the most conservative Spanish liberalism that has always been afraid of the only House, which has always said that the only House, the Lower House, could commit excesses in popular sovereignty and had to cool it down or had to temper it with a second House. We, in that sense, are much closer to the tradition of the progressive constitutionalism of Cadiz, who was not afraid of a single House, who was not afraid of popular sovereignty, who did not believe that there could be excesses in popular sovereignty. And you tell us that we need a Chamber of Territorial Representation. Is the Senate currently a House of Territorial Representation? I believe that no one can defend that and, therefore, as long as it is not, the Senate cannot become a trench to sustain unjust economic policies. We need a federally oriented Senate that, in Pi i Margall's words, does not strive to sustain the unity that kills and dares to reconcile the variety that vivifies. And as long as the Senate is not that, the Senate cannot become a trench to sustain unjust and ineffective policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u47	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi finally has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u48	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of the consideration. In any case, a previous one, Mr Garcés and Mr De Quintos: Is tomorrow's dialogue table unconstitutional? Did I hear this? Is it unconstitutional? What is your constitution, a constitution that prohibits dialogue, a constitution that limits dialogue? Is that your constitution? [[Applauds]] [[Rumors]] If it is unconstitutional, until six o'clock in the afternoon you can go to the Constitutional Court, present in register the appeal and the Constitutional Court, which often meets in an express way, tomorrow will suspend the meeting. [[rumors]] A unconstitutional dialogue table? [[Rumors]] Please, please, Your Honor, please. You remembered previous episodes: we were happy in the eighties, in the ninety-two thousand; you were decent people. Do you know what your group did? The statute, approved by this House, previously approved by the Parliament of Catalonia and the Catalan people, took it to the Constitutional Court to appeal articles that were in other autonomous statutes and that were approved by you. You did this and you are now saying that a dialogue table is unconstitutional. For God's sake, Mr. Garcés, how difficult it will be for you to put your voters in Catalonia. In Catalonia you will have to explain that speaking, dialogue, is unconstitutional. Let's get to the point, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u49	Yes, Mr. Bel, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u50	I've taken the same liberty as other speakers have taken. [[Laughter]] Some have spoken of their constituents, others have spoken of the tables. Anyway, I was answering. We will support the consideration of this proposal. We did it the previous time. We find it reasonable to amend Article 15(6) of a law which we voted in favour of because we introduced an amendment to the first transitional provision which, unfortunately, has not been respected either by the Socialist Government or by the People's Government. In any case, we are going to present to you amendments to further quantify this first transitional provision and make it possible to allocate deficit targets asymmetrically among the autonomous communities. We are going to table amendments to amend Article 12, in particular the expenditure rule. We heard the Minister say that she would make a new interpretation of the expenditure rule. We understand that better than an interpretation is specific and specific legislation. Therefore, have no doubt that we are going to table amendments in the confidence that at least some of them can be traded. In any case, Mr. Garcés, agree with me and wish you luck tomorrow at the dialogue table. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u52	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. We are once again discussing this bill, which aims to eliminate the Senate veto in the adoption of the fiscal stability and public debt targets adopted by the PP in 2012. They were interested in the modification then, when the PP held an absolute majority in the Senate, and they are interested now, when you, because of the electoral repetition, have not achieved an absolute majority in the Upper House. In any case, it seems right to us and we will support the consideration of the proposal. Mr Casares, gentlemen of the PSOE, it also seems to us that the amendment of this Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and, where appropriate, the parliamentary processing of this Law is a magnificent opportunity to put an end to the multiple grievances that, as we have repeated many times, suffer from local corporations. We reminded Minister Montero last week of her appearance at the Finance Committee and this morning we again called on the new President of the AIReF on this matter. A report by this same body, the AIReF, published in September last year, pointed out that the municipalities as a whole have more savings than debt, namely EUR 27 billion in deposits that exceed EUR 26 billion in debt, according to this report that I mentioned. In our question, the President has not closed the door to the modification of the concept of the expenditure rule and we therefore take note. This parliamentary group presents amendments in the processing of this bill to soften the impact of the spending rule, so that municipalities with sound public accounts can return their resources to the citizenry. We are talking about expanding the capacity of municipalities to exercise municipal policies, to invest all these millions, 27 billion euros, which are now paralysed in banking entities, in policies as necessary as social policies or housing policies. We are talking about shielding the administrations closest to the citizenry, which are on the front lines of fire, which must give an immediate response and have room for manoeuvre in order to meet the needs of the citizenry. Esquerra Republicana is a formation with a clearly municipalist vocation and in this respect we must protect the municipalities of a clearly unjust state law. In this respect, we hope to be able to work with the majority of parliamentary groups, because, let us remember, it is a problem that the municipalities are finding themselves in whatever color they are and it is fair to solve it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u54	Thank you, President. What is proposed in this initiative - we have already heard this - is the reform of Article 15.6 of the Act on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. This provision deals with a technical aspect, I would say clearly procedural; it deals with the procedure for approving, in this case, the ceiling for expenditure by the General Courts. However, even if it has this procedural character, it has been a focus of political and media attention on too many occasions. By going directly to the bottom of the matter, at the heart of what is being discussed today, the controversy is related to the fact that some public representatives - in this case, I address the representatives of the People's Party - always put their particular interests above the general interests. Moreover, they only respect the Constitution, the organs and the procedures when you are in government. That is at the heart of the matter; and I explain it. In 2012, the People's Party introduced the amendment we are talking about, the possibility that the Senate would veto the approval of the spending ceiling proposed by the Government each year. At the time, Vice President Sáenz of Santamaría explained it more or less with the following argument. He said it was about giving more political weight to the Senate, and that is why he was given the opportunity to veto the spending ceiling. This was the argument used, but of course it is very, very far from reality. With the introduction of the veto by the Senate, what was being strengthened at that time was the possibility of hindering the approval, when deemed necessary - that is, when you do not govern - of the spending ceiling proposed annually by the Government. That was the only reason, as we also know, for approving the State's General Budgets. To show a button. In 2018, the path presented by the Socialist Party raised the deficit target of the communities. You vetoed it, against the interests of the Autonomous Communities and against and to the detriment of all citizens. They did not care at that time that public health and public education would deteriorate. Simply, we are faced with something that is repeated, a deep patrimonialist feeling of the institutions, institutions that I remind you of are of all and of all. I would also like to make two comments on what has been said in the rostrum. First, I would like to remind you that the Spanish parliamentary system is a bicameral system, but it is an imperfect bicameral system. What does this mean? It means that Congress always has pre-eminence over the Senate. And if we talk about the legislative procedure, the Senate is a second-reading chamber, a chamber called cooling, so the last word always, always has Congress. What you were doing with your reform was to deviate from that text that you so much proclaim, from what the Constitution itself says. [[Applauds]] And I say more - and this is important -, it is not credible - was not so when Vice President Sáenz of Santamaría said it and now much less - that you with this reform were proposing to enhance in the Senate. That's not credible. Ladies and gentlemen, for a long time now you have been attacking the Autonomous Communities. They have begun a process of re-centralizing the competences of the autonomous communities. Systematically, its laws are being used by the Constitutional Court - and the example is today - for example, to appeal to the Catalan decree on housing, which establishes important measures for Catalonia and the rest of the Spanish State, and that what it is trying to do is to give effect to a constitutional right, the right to decent housing. [[Applauds]] You do not have a single constructive proposal to improve and update the state of autonomy, and less to make the Senate a chamber that truly represents the interests of the autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, stop bringing absurd proposals, proposals that no one wants to discuss, and bring serious proposals here to, for example, update that state of autonomy or to enhance the Senate. And in case you want to study a little bit, I remind you of some that can be interesting. For example, why do we not think of reviewing the division of jurisdiction between the State and the autonomous communities that, as you know, is creating great conflict? Why don't we review the autonomous funding? Why do we not invent instruments for the participation of the autonomous communities in the decisions of the State and in the decisions of the European Union? Why don't we do and think about how to make the Senate a real House of Territorial Representation? When you want to talk about all that, we'll be here. In the meantime, don't make us, please, waste time. [[Applauds]] And I conclude. It is necessary, it is imperative to reverse the veto of the Senate. Because in the end I'd say it's just a rather rough exercise of parliamentary filibusterism. That is to say, it is to prevent a government where you are not - but remember that also the governments where you are not - from having the possibility of adopting general budgets, which - as you know - that law on general state budgets is the way in which the government has to implement those measures that have previously been endorsed in the ballot box by the citizens and then here with the vote of confidence. Therefore, I conclude with a piece of advice: learn to oppose, work on serious proposals and if you are so interested in complying with the Constitution, if you are so interested in enforcing the Constitution, set an example, apply the story and start by respecting the Government and respecting the authorities of all the autonomous institutions. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Garrido. Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u56	Thank you, Madam President. 'Spain cannot be of one against another, Spain must be of all and for all.' I do not think that in his words his majesty the king intended to exclude almost 4 million VOX voters, as you do in this House on a daily basis. Look, in my speech, I will talk to you about two specific and related issues. On the one hand, the challenge you pose to the European Union by rejecting its recommendations once again. On the other hand, your intention to get rid of the controls on the Government that provides for our Constitution, because it is difficult for you to follow the rules. I'll put them on record. First, the European Commission responds to its government's budget plan by saying that it is not in line with the requirements set by the European Council in July 2019, that its projections do not guarantee compliance with the debt rule by 2020. Secondly, the opinion sent months later by the Commission states that the draft budget plan would entail a risk of a significant deviation from the recommended route to Spain. Conclusion: Europe says no to its plan. You guys are suspended. Do you understand? [[Applauds]] When you say in your proposal for a law that the commitments made within the Union require an agile procedure of approval of objectives, you make an interested use of the terms, because the Community institutions say nothing about it. What you do affirm is that the objectives are to achieve them and you do not. Therefore, the agility to comply with Europe is not enough excuse. Brussels tells the government that it is not able to respond to what is asked of it and you answer with a view to reducing controls on the government and setting its budgetary stability objectives apart from what the Union says. They make deaf ears and then deny the evidence, their specialty. The Commission sends a clear message: we cannot rely on the economic budgetary programmes of this social-communist government which intends to spend what it does not have and here I want to stop. That you, gentlemen of the PSOE, want to spend without too many controls I do not say so, your partners from the far left say it in a document entitled Leaving austerity behind, proposals to increase the path of the deficit. Where's the money coming from? This document is a flagrant threat to budgetary stability, which they define as an ideological tool based on Brussels economic impositions that prevent public investment. Look, the accounts don't have ideology, quadrant or not. And from Brussels they do not impose, they seek the economic balance of their members. While they criticize Europe, on the other hand, they set us as an example of the US economy, from which they say they came out of the crisis faster. It's unheard of. But, gentlemen of Podemos, they are focusing and finally approaching the economies that work, because it must be that since some have family and mortgage they understand that budgets are made by spending what one has and not waiting to enter what one wants to spend. [[Applauds]] Economy of common sense. However, the money of the Spaniards, as you say is nobody's, they intend to spend it even though we are in debt up to the eyebrows, and then the one who comes after him who pulls. Tell that to the farmers, to the self-employed, to the workers of our nation. The second question I raise is equally striking, because they seek to eliminate the Senate's oversight of changing the spending ceiling. This would ensure control of the Executive. The organic law that you intend to amend develops, as you know, the constitutional reform of 2011, approved by Mr Zapatero, which amended article 135 of our Constitution, which I will not repeat here because everyone knows it. The objectives of budgetary stability and debt are reflected in an organic law that requires absolute majority in Congress for its modification; absolute majority that protects the general interest of the citizens here represented by you and us. The Socialist Group, in order to justify the simple majority with which it intends to approve these objectives in the second round, equates it to the elaboration of the general budgets of the State. This is not the first time that they have built a creative alternative to circumvent the procedures of the House. You have already done so in 2018 trying to introduce this same reform using what you call macho violence. No, Mr Socialists, the objectives of budgetary stability have a higher rank, since their approval by the Courts provides the basis for drawing up the budgets, but of course, one billion, what are they? Then nothing for Mrs. Montero! Because in purity, to approve the objectives of stability and debt is to put numbers to the provisions of article 15 of that organic law, is to modify an organic law, whether you want it or not. That is why, from the VOX Parliamentary Group, even though we do not agree with the current regulation contained in Article 15.6 of the Act, we do not agree with the Socialist Group's amendment either. The current diction of article 15.6, which was adopted by the majority of the People's Party in its day, gave, we understand, an excess of powers to the Senate, where they had an absolute majority and expected that any regulatory project would go ahead with them, an exercise of partisanship that we do not share. At the other end, although for the same partisan purpose, the PSOE presented in 2018 the proposed law that we take into consideration today. The explanation, very simple: they were in the government but the PP had an absolute majority of the Senate and, of course, with this amendment they tried to prevent the Senate from vetoing their budgets. Today things are different, the PSOE has a majority in the Senate and it makes no sense for the Socialist Group to speak of political blockade. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, the legislative function is to give solutions in accordance with our legal system, to control the executive, to give legitimacy to the institutions of the State and not to twist the laws as appropriate to their parties. [[Applauds]] Let us put political juggling aside, because what is at stake is Spain. He quoted to his majesty the king at the beginning of this intervention even though they want to isolate us, distort our message, despise us by giving us democratic hygiene advice, like those of Mr.Simoncas; those who exclude are 4 million Spaniards who contribute to Social Security, who pay taxes with which you charge your salary. [[Applauds]] I will suggest an idea of common sense that respects the rules of play of our democracy. In our view, if Congress approved the objectives by an absolute majority, but the Senate subsequently vetoed them, that lifting of the veto we understand would require in any case once again the absolute majority of the Congress of Deputies. For this reason, this parliamentary group will vote not to take account of its proposal, since the text does not conform to the procedure or to the majorities that our legal system establishes, since the approval of the objectives of stability and public debt on the substance is the amendment of Article 15 itself and must be adopted by an absolute majority and not by a simple majority. What I have just put to you from this rostrum does not respond to ideologies or partisan strategies or to the desire to block the proper functioning of the institutions if not to offer legal certainty, guarantee the division of powers and carry out effective control over the government, whether from the right...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u57	Mrs. Cañizares, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u58	I'm done. ... or from the far left, as is yours; ultimately, to protect our democracy. Does that ring a bell? Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs Cañizares.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u60	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on measures to strengthen protocols for prevention, detection and action in situations of abuse, assault and sexual exploitation, such as those that have taken place on a continuous basis in guardianship centres under the Majorca Council, and on the actions carried out by the State Security Forces and Bodies concerning the alleged sexual assault committed by several young people on a minor in Palma on the morning of 24 and 25 December 2019. Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor for the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u61	President, ladies and gentlemen, I bring to this House today, on behalf of my group, one of those few non-legislative proposals that impact as a bullet in the conscience of each of the Members who are sitting in this Chamber, regardless of the group to which we belong and regardless of our ideology. I would like to make it clear before I begin to speak: the ultimate objective of this proposal is to strengthen and improve child protection. It is not making any political censorship, but improving child protection and finding out what has happened. I would like this debate to be raised with a high eye, keeping the clashes between parties and raising our consciences. I repeat, the objective of this proposal is the comprehensive protection of minors who do not happen cases such as those we have known in Baleares or Valencia. I am going to try to be extremely careful and to flee from the political saneness, which we could do, because I do not want to polarise this debate and that corporatism is encouraged and that deputies and deputies of parties who right now have in their hands the management of these governments in Balearics or Valencia close in band and vote against, which is simply indefensible. I'm going to the facts. About a month ago, Spain was shocked when it learned that a 13-year-old girl residing in a guardianship centre had been raped in a group by other minors residing in another centre, and when the investigation was opened it was revealed that there appeared to be a prostitution network involving sixteen minors. In this investigation, important decoordinations and neglects in the system are pointed out and, in fact, the Council of Mallorca, to which the Balearic Government transfers the competences in the centres for the reception of minors, recognizes that the first case of sexual abuse had occurred in 2010, when Armengol presided over this institution. This frightening event has served to launch a very important vulnerability to public opinion in our child protection system. But it just seems like this isn't an isolated case. The rulings in the management of guardianship children have also occurred in the Valencian Community, where I am; they come from afar, there are sentences, there are requirements, there are reports from the Syndic of Greuges and the Prosecutor's Office that point to political negligence and faulty efforts by the Party of Compromises - the Botànic now - which is in charge of this right now. For more inri, we have recently found - I am in a hurry to bring it to this House - a conviction for sexual assaults on an educator in a juvenile center that was linked as an exparage to a high personality of the Valencian government. [[Rumors]] A person who has come to light who has obstructed the investigation - this the Prosecutor says, I do not say - in this case of this minor guardianship. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with terrible scandals in this country's public administration. In general, there are very great professionals, very great managers, very great politicians concerned with caring for our children and that these systems work; in general, the system works well, but cases like those in Valencia or the Balearic Islands should make us all recognize that they have failed political leaders and that they have failed some issues that we need to find out why, where and how. Look, gentlemen of the left above all, we cannot come to this debate with prejudice or slogans. It is such a serious matter, it is such a serious matter that we are not going to dare to accuse anyone of legislating or having acted negligently. No, don't make scarecrows, Mr. Baldoví. But we do demand, we do demand to know why this has happened, what has failed and how it can be improved! We demand that responsibilities be assumed and we demand that as parties we commit ourselves to parking those politicians who prevent us from investigating these very serious issues. Therefore, we have to work together on this, in order to explain to the citizens, and to explain to ourselves also, what has happened; and in order to be able to say how we can ensure that this has happened in Baleares and Valencia no longer happens anywhere in Spain. Faced with this attitude, when the scandals came out in Baleares, my colleagues did not ask anyone to resign, they did not make great scarecrows like other political parties did; they asked very responsibly for a commission of inquiry to be opened to clarify what had happened. You refused. You refused by saying that in that commission of inquiry what you wanted was experts. You know that the commissions of inquiry are also made for experts to appear to clarify these facts. Today we have learned that this committee of experts, which was supposed to clarify these facts, has derailed and is not going to investigate. Recently, too, the three parties that are self-qualified as progressives and feminists in the Valencian Community have prevented a commission of inquiry that analyses what has happened in these juvenile centres. I don't know if it's because they don't understand the gravity of the facts, because it embarrasses them, because they're afraid, but I don't understand how they're hindering these issues from being clarified. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you, this is not an adjustment of accounts between political parties; the first interested in clarifying what has happened should be you. How do they intend to improve protocols and action measures if they do not know what has failed? Today we bring you a third chance; you have refused twice, we bring you a third chance. Let us give a message of union to the Spaniards on this subject, it is unacceptable that vulnerable children under the guardianship of the public administration may become victims of sexual abuse. You are giving lessons in feminism and defense of the vulnerable, prove that it is true, prove that you want to find out what has happened, vote in favour of this proposal. We are going to try to make a compromise with many of the issues that have been raised with us, but if a committee of inquiry is opened we will be able to make a document where we can combine many of the issues that are not going to fit into a simple GNP. Vote for this proposal or do not re-flank either feminism or the defence of the vulnerable. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Martin. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Martínez Oblanca is speaking by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. In view of the cases of sexual exploitation of minors under the supervision of the Mallorcan Institute of Social Affairs, under the auspices of the Mallorcan Council, it is a tragedy, a failure and a disaster that in Spain the sacrosanct mandate in the public guardianship of minors has not been fulfilled. We knew from the official indicators that the always abominable crimes against children and adolescents occurred, in a high percentage, in the family sphere, but it is surprising that the scandal of the sexual exploitation of minors occurred in the 21st century against adolescents who are under the protection and guardianship of public institutions. And from stupor to perplexity with Parliament's recent refusal to go deeper into the investigation, more so when it is already pointed out that there may be more cases on other islands. The second vice president and minister of social rights, Mr Iglesias Turrion, who was so keen to baptize legislative projects that nobody knows of a single line and to motivate themselves and strangers, how would he call this attitude of the Balearic Government, also of a homologous coalition, to prevent the knowledge of some very serious facts about the guardianship of minors? Maybe Armengol doctrine? Perhaps united doctrine we call, as Mrs Prohens rightly pointed out last week? Suggestions are allowed. They are the same shooting authorities who hide from the Prosecutor's office and have done nothing about the situation that appears to be coming from afar and that, some media say, was a secret to voices. Hence, to stupor and perplexity must be added mistrust. It is understood that the new Attorney General of the State, appointed just a few hours ago by the Council of Ministers, reprobated as Minister of Justice three times, three times - the blackest hole in democracy - whispered to the hidden recorder of Commissioner Villarejo the behavior with minors of some participants in a certain Colombian periplo. In the face of the scandal of sexual exploitation of at least sixteen adolescents under public guardianship in the Balearic Islands, can we now rely on the guidelines of a judicial officer who crossed hands after witnessing alleged criminal behaviour with minors? In case there was any doubt, this case of minors protected by IMAS further highlights the government's crazy decision to appoint Ms. Delgado, although we already know that with her electoral boasting Pedro Sánchez's irresponsibility attributing to himself the actions of prosecutors crushed the separation of powers and dragged to the mud the independence of the Prosecutor's Office. Ladies and gentlemen, like five other parliamentary groups, including the proposer, I have tabled an amendment to this non-legislative proposal to amend one of its points. We advocate from the Forum for the enactment of an organic law for the eradication of violence against children and adolescents, emphasizing the need to fill legislative gaps in order to strengthen instruments for the assistance and protection of children. We also want the statute of limitations for offences against freedom and sexual compensation to begin when the victim reaches the age of 30 and that the duty of reporting, from the authorities and those responsible to public guardianship as well as from the citizens, is envisaged. In any case, it is not that there is no legislation in Spain or that our country is not subject to compliance with international treaties in defence of the rights of minors; in fact, in 2007, at the request of the Council of Europe, the Convention for the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse was drawn up in Lanzarote. But all this would remain in pyrotechnics if the national Government and the autonomous authorities did not apply in their compliance, as has been evident after the unacceptable failure of institutional protection to prevent helplessness and to help the vulnerability of minors in the Balearic Islands. It would also be a parliamentary fiasco to have in Congress a committee on children's and adolescents'rights whose political orientation initiatives the Government did not heed; those of the XII Legislature were all left in drunk water. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group proposes to urge the Government to adopt a series of measures to ensure the protection of minors under public responsibility in centres in the face of sexual abuse and exploitation, at the dawn of such events reported on minors during their departures from centres under the Majorca Council in which they were housed. On the same facts at last week's monitoring session, the Popular and VOX parliamentary groups came in, blaming the Council for negligence, for lack of transparency, for blocking commissions of inquiry and for not taking any measures to stop it. And yesterday, the People's Group announced that it will propose the creation of a commission of inquiry in this House, to which citizens today join in self-amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be speakers who, because of their greater proximity to the reality of the Balearic Islands, will give a better account of the facts that are being denounced, but what is an objective fact is that, despite what has been said, these facts have not so far been raised by setting up a commission of inquiry in the Balearic Islands. In 2018, the creation of a committee of experts to investigate ten years of adoption, guardianship and interventions in the family sphere was proposed at parliamentary level. As you can see, nothing has to do with sexual abuse of foster children. By the way, the People's Group voted against. Subsequently, in 2019, VOX in December submitted a motion to the Council to audit the budgetary gap of the last parliamentary term. As you can see, again nothing to do with sexual abuse of guardianship children, and on this occasion also, in December, the People's Group voted against it. Having clarified this point, ladies and gentlemen, what I would like to highlight in this intervention of the matter before us is that the facts reported in Mallorca are not a unique case affecting only the child care institutions on the island, as it seems to want to be highlighted. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a problem that affects the whole state, a problem at state level. The memory of the preliminary draft of the Organic Law on the Protection of Children, sent to the General Council of the Judiciary for its report in 2019, highlights the fact that half of the known sexual assaults in Spain are against minors. I repeat, half of the known sexual assaults in Spain are against minors. In 2017, with closed data, it affected, according to this memory, 4542 minors from all over the State and 78% of these victims were girls. That is why it said that abuse of child victims is one of the important real problems facing us as a society and, ladies and gentlemen, in order to face it the best interests of the child is the primary consideration to be given, which we must have and, honestly, we do not believe that at last week's monitoring session by the popular and VOX parliamentary groups or now by Citizens primarily this interest of the child has been uniquely its guiding thread, although this interest must prevail over any other that may arise, including measures taken by public or private institutions, the courts or the legislative bodies themselves, in accordance with article 2 of the Organic Law on the Legal Protection of Minors. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said to you, caution, prudence and sensitivity are the attitudes that must prevail and guide both the actions of the courts to purify responsibilities and the exercise of the right to information of society as well as the activity of this House as a representative of popular sovereignty when it comes to minors and even more to minors who are sexually assaulted and abused. I'm finishing up, President. Palliating or minimizing child sexual abuse and exploitation requires the effort and collaboration of all, including opposition. The real goal should be to combat abusers and minors themselves as victims at risk of revictimization. This is the real question of the State, which cannot be made irresponsible politics, seeking immediate political credits and sometimes using minors as merchandise, even through proposals such as the creation of commissions of inquiry into facts reported in Majorca, which - in advance - will inevitably clash, if it were to be established, with article 301 of the Criminal Procedure Act as regards the information contained in the investigation or investigation phase and will also clash with the same Criminal Procedure Act in other precepts, with the Victims' Statute and with the Organic Law I have already mentioned on the Legal Protection of Minors as regards the protection of minor victims, when it comes to obtaining knowledge of the situation of specific minors or of information that may lead to their identification or knowledge of their circumstances. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mrs García Puig has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Communal Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u67	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, good afternoon. I will start by making a reminder and a request to all your ladies and gentlemen, especially those sitting on the right-hand side. There is something in our country, in the world, that is called the best interests of the child. It is in our legislation, it is in the treaties that our country has ratified. Respect him. To turn the facts that occupy us into the object of a partisan struggle is a flagrant violation of this best interests of the child, and the group I represent will not allow it. [[Applauds]] We face very serious events that must be investigated until their last consequences, whoever falls, of course, but always with rigour and care for the victims. That is why our group has given support and support to a committee of independent experts who must take full responsibility for this never to happen again and to offer just reparation to the victims, who are the most important ones in this case. Our group, in favour of consensus, was going to vote in favour of its proposal, but to our surprise they have been amended with a number of technically very deficient amendments but which also violate things as essential as the competences of the autonomous communities, which makes it very difficult for us to maintain this consensus and vote in favour. But we propose to you, as I have already done personally, that we work on a compromise amendment that will allow us to maintain this consensus. Indeed, one of the great achievements of the Commission on the Rights of Children and Adolescents, which had the honour of presiding over the XII Legislature, was to reach a consensus by which we registered and approved by all parliamentary groups a non-law proposal urging the Government of Mariano Rajoy to process that law. We now find that thanks to the government of progressive coalition the situation in which this law of protection against violence in children was found is unlocked and vice president Pablo Iglesias has announced that it will be the first legislative measure that will deal with his vice-presidency. I ask you, gentlemen of Citizens, gentlemen of the PP: will you do everything possible to maintain this consensus? Do you really think that your dangerous friendships with VOX will allow you to maintain this consensus? Because I remind you that your partners question even the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the most ratified international treaty in history, that all you do is defend the rights of all children regardless of where they were born. [[Applauds]] To achieve this consensus, I will recommend two readings. The first is this, the memories of the British musician James Rhodes. [[shows a book]] They are called Instrumental and tell how she survived a childhood of sexual abuse. Let me read you some lines as an introduction: 'From day to day, literally, I passed from a child full of life, who danced, who turned around, who laughed, who enjoyed the security and adventures offered by a new school, to being an isolated automaton, with cement feet, turned off. That was an immediate shock, like walking quietly along a sunny path and suddenly opening a trap and falling to an ice lake.' For no child to fall further into this frozen lake, which is sexual abuse, let us work urgently, with responsibility, but above all, with childhood in mind, in that law of protection of violence against children that both James Rhodes himself and so many associations that defend the rights of boys and girls have been demanding for a long time. The second reading that I want to propose to you, which I hope you will know, is here, the report by Save the Children, Eyes you do not want to see, on sexual abuse of boys and girls in Spain. [[shows the report]] I understand that you will agree with Save the Children that prevention is the key. Well, listen to me. Do you know that they make recommendations to prevent sexual abuse? The first point, which I hope will not surprise you, says: 'Ensure that all boys and girls have access to regular and early education in affective-sexual education'. [[Applauds]] And we arrived at the infamous parental pin. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if you keep some decency, if you don't want your face to fall on the floor of shame every time you talk about sexual abuse against children, break the ties that bind you to the far right in Murcia, Madrid and all over Spain and put an end to the demented parental pin with which you want to deprive our children of rights. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u68	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u69	Then maybe we'll think they're worried about our childhood. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u70	Thank you, Mrs. García. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Errás Pabón. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am addressing you again to raise a matter that requires our utmost attention. Currently, there are almost fifty thousand children under guardianship in Spain who live mostly in private management centres. These centres receive sums from the State of up to €9,000 per month per child. It is not surprising, therefore, that the number of children under guardianship in Spain is increasing. The first cases of sexual abuse of guardianship children were detected in 2010 and five years later technicians warned of an alarming increase in such abuse. Neither the means were put in place, nor was there any follow-up, nor did those responsible show the slightest urgency to address this situation. It was a secret to voices, but only now that it's a media scandal and unstoppable you have decided to start acting. Both the PP and the PSOE addressed draft legislation in this area in their day-to-day and are still kept in a drawer. As a result of the events, Citizens present to us today in their GNP a series of measures for the protection of children under guardianship which, however, leaves aside the great forgotten and the basis for the well-being of any child, his or her family. In VOX we argue that the family is a fundamental pillar in society and a fundamental pillar also in the environment of any child. We already know that this Government does not feel the same way, that with its social-communist policy it defends without caps that the children are not of the parents and, therefore, it is the State that decides what is best for them. Well, if we were already opposed to the interference of the State in the education of our children, even more so after verifying the incompetence of the system for the protection of minors under their guardianship. [[Applauds]] In VOX we advocate for the real well-being of these children, which is to provide the support that families need to avoid reaching the end of separation. The Committee on the Rights of the Child also recognizes that the best thing for the child is to be, first of all, with his or her parents, and if not with the rest of his or her family, so that helplessness is always the last option. That is why we are going to table several amendments to this GNP from VOX. First, we want the prosecutor's office to intervene much more frequently in its inspections, ensuring that the rights of all actors are respected, and acting quickly in cases where minors have been taken from their families. We also believe that the suspension of parental authority outside the judicial system must be corrected; a decision of this kind must be made by a judge. On the other hand, we want to clarify the cases of child abuse in Mallorca, yes, of course, but also of the rest of the Spanish territory. There are many more cases in other autonomous communities such as Catalonia, the Canary Islands or the Basque Country. Once again, the system of autonomy highlights its ineffectiveness and generates victims who suffer situations of greater or lesser protection according to the territory. In addition, to avoid this, we propose the creation of a high-level State inspection for the welfare of children under guardianship, which will ensure their well-being in any autonomous community. We also propose to amend the legislation of the Criminal Code by further tightening the penalties for offences against minors, independently, Mr. Iglesias, who is not here today, and Mr. de Podemos, whether the perpetrators are men or women. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Independently, although the left, far from making self-criticism, continues to use these cases to build their ideological narrative and divide society, the reality is that four of the five educators expelled to the Balearic Islands for inappropriate sexual conduct with the children under guardianship were women. [[Applauds]] Yes, gentlemen, have you, Mr de Podemos and the Socialist Group, considered the responsibility of those who block the commissions of inquiry into this plot of prostitution of minors, who are the same as those in this government who occupy child protection portfolios? Finally, we urge the Government to urgently develop a law on the protection of children and adolescents, strengthening the position of the Public Prosecutor's Office, with the ultimate aim of enabling the child under guardianship to return to his or her family whenever possible. To this end, the State must make available to families mechanisms and resources to prevent their separation. Because I don't know if you know that, but it's a constitutional obligation under article 39.1. And it's just, gentlemen, what's more important for a child than his family? What do you think if instead of putting obstacles to family unity, we take steps to protect and help the family? I'm done, Madam President. Gentlemen of Podemos, you all call all this political revenue. We call it working for the Spaniards, which is what we are here for, for that and to demand responsibility for any irregular or irresponsible act, and above all and especially, gentlemen, if there are minors in the middle. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs. Borrás. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Prohens Rigo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u73	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Garcia, you forgot to quote what Rhodes said a couple of weeks ago. I quote: We are still waiting for decisive action; those responsible for failing to fulfil their duty of protection should be dismissed and prosecuted and victims should receive the highest possible level of support. He forgot. [[Applauds]] After last week Mr. Iglesias did not answer the question of the People's Party, we again discuss today a sensitive issue, a topic that requires the greatest transparency, the greatest rigour, in order to be able to analyze seriously where it has failed. It is necessary to change things and it is necessary to change people, ladies and gentlemen, because those who are now responsible for these minors were already in 2016, when technicians claim that they began to denounce these cases. This debate also requires calm and decisiveness, but they have not been able to avoid the bar tone that the vice president used last week. I imagine, Madam spokesman of Podemos, that it is because of the great shame you feel - a party that has even feminized your name - when you see what you are doing in Baleares your own party, your PSOE leaders and yourselves in this Congress. They have laughed at the fall that falls from Mr. Iglesias and Mrs. Montero. The Minister attended the Commission yesterday for more than five and a half hours and did not have time to refer to the minors in Balearic Islands and Valencia. [[Applauds]] That is why we in the People's Party reiterated yesterday's request for a committee of inquiry, which we have just registered with Citizens, and we are glad that Citizens have joined this initiative that we announced yesterday in the Commission to see that we are together to discover the truth to the end. I ask you, gentlemen of the left: what would have happened if, as a result of the case of La Manada de Nochebuena, the press did not discover that it is a minor protected and exploits this case? Would they have kept it hidden? How long? All these measures that they now announce, would they have postponed them just so that it would not be discovered that there was a problem? Were they still not listening to the technicians' complaints? The President of the Council, of the PSOE, says that there is not enough reason for resignation. Look me in the eye and say that sixteen minors in Mallorca, two in Menorca and those in Valencia do not deserve responsibility, do not deserve an investigation. [[Applauds]] When the first clues are discovered in Valencia to which it departs it is the victim, continuing the aggressor in the same center. Do you think you can repeat this again today with respect to an accused of abuse, whoever he is? Do you think it can be repeated that a victim for abuse will be declared handcuffed, ladies and gentlemen, and without legal aid? Do you think this is worthy? That is why we are voting in favour of this non-legislative proposal, to which we have tabled amendments in line with the non-legislative proposal also tabled by the People's Party, which we believe complement and complement it: the child protection law that the People's Party has prepared with the consensus of the entities and platforms of children. The important thing, gentlemen of Podemos, is not the name that they put on it; the important thing is that it is approved. Also in the area of trafficking in women, we propose a law against trafficking which already contained the State Pact against Gender Violence and which they have not had time to implement throughout this period, as well as strengthening the role of the security forces and bodies. Minister Montero referred yesterday to the feminist alliance and said: we want to live; we want to be free. They therefore vote in favour of this non-law proposal and show that the children under guardianship do not want them to be silent, do not want them to be hidden. And I know that all of you would prefer that this non-law proposal, such as that of the People's Party or the questions to its ministers, would not have been debated in this Congress, nor would the vote by the commission of inquiry, but we will not be silenced. As long as they're still accomplices to whoever hides these facts, they won't shut us up. It is called democracy or democratic syrup, as you prefer, and it is called defending the best interests of the child above all; also above their insults. Because you have taken sides to defend your parties rather than the minors, and if you vote against this commission of inquiry you will persist in the error of your parties in the Balearic Islands, which have highlighted all the contradictions of the feminist left of this country, and this, ladies and gentlemen, will accompany you throughout the legislature. Thank you very much. [[Clarifications from the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, with some of the ladies and gentlemen on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u74	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prohens. Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor in the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u75	Thank you, President. I fully share the assessments that have been made today by both the PNV and the UN Podemos in the sense that we are talking about a matter of enormous importance: how we protect the best interests of the child, in this case and in many cases. What we are talking about is an issue that should embarrass us all; what we are talking about is a scourge in our country that has to do with the violence in general that is being exercised on minors, and in particular sexual violence. We ask for the data just to get here: there were 20,000 complaints in 2019 about violence against minors; of those 20,000, 3183 are sexual violence, sexual assaults; of these 3183, 2623 are girls and 558 are boys. It means, ladies and gentlemen - which is what we need to talk about - almost nine complaints every day about sexual violence in this country. That's what we have to work on. The figure is higher: seven girls, two boys; because the girls, in addition to being small, are women. This is very serious and of course very serious also when such violence is carried out in environments that should be protected: in family environments, in foster settings, in family host environments, because it involves adding pain to an already serious pain when in these environments. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why, and I am addressing Citizens in particular, it is very serious that you reject the consensus that you would have reached with your first choice. Why do they reject this consensus? Because you have allied yourself with the People's Party with a proposal this morning that has nothing to do with the possibility of your proposal, which dealt with the three fundamental elements: it dealt with research, it dealt with the Law on Minors and it dealt with resources and the introduction of taxation. They had the consensus of this House. Don't tell me you're acting in the best interests of the child. You and you are acting in the best interests of your parties at this time, ladies and gentlemen; in that you are acting, and that is why it is serious, because you could have reached an agreement, you could have achieved a pact, you could - on the basis of your proposal, which had the essential elements - have worked in this direction, but you did not want to. They prefer to make the sum with the right and the right, so do not tell us that it falls on our consciences because it falls exactly on yours, ladies and gentlemen, not putting the best interest of the child above their petty, partisan and partisan interests. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Right now about what you have raised and what we could work on there are three elements of urgency: the first is the law; there is a preliminary draft, and all child protection organizations ask us to act, to act quickly and to remove the law to protect minors from violence. That is therefore a first element. The second element - and it is also very important - is the continuous and systematic intervention of the forces and bodies of State security and the juvenile prosecution offices in Mallorca, Madrid, Valencia or Asturias, in order to always ensure prevention and responsibilities. Finally, something they have not spoken about: means, resources, budgets, because in Madrid, for example, they do not vote for the increase in means and resources so that there are more educators in child-care centres. They have not spoken about this and it is fundamental. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as long as you work to reach a pact or agreement with these elements, you will have the support of More Country-Equo. If you take precedence over your partisan interest, you will certainly not count, as you will not count on this proposal, with our support. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Sabanes. For the Socialist Group, Mr Pons Sampietro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u77	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are dealing with in this GNP is very serious and painful, but it is even more so when we talk about minors, and when these minors are under the supervision of the administration. Although it is a serious issue, which is under judicial investigation and on which the competent authorities have already taken letters in the matter, the opposition has again played dirty on such a sensitive issue as that of abuse of children under guardianship. You are worth any topic to wear down the government, any topic. [[Applauds]] Because if they cared about child abuse, they would bring in initiatives today to raise awareness, detect and prevent child abuse. If what they really cared about were unaccompanied migrant minors, they would today push for measures to combat the fragility of young people, young people who have been stigmatized and who have received xenophobic attacks from the far right. But as we see today and as we saw at the last plenary session last week, only what they are interested in is trying to harm the progressive government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, they are trying to cast doubt on the Socialist Party's commitment, and the Socialists' commitment to child abuse is total, and we admit no doubt, no doubt. We have been working together with other organizations for years on a child and adolescent protection law that will soon see light. The commitment of my parliamentary group against sexual exploitation and the fight against prostitution also admits no doubt, ladies and gentlemen. And there is the Journal of Sessions to give proof of the intense work that this parliamentary group has done in those years in this regard. I do not think that all parties can say the same in this Chamber. Finally, we do not forget that the very vulnerable situation of children who are migrants and are not accompanied is an absolute priority for this Government. We are concerned about all the children, we are concerned about all the girls, those who were born here and those who were not born here, Mr Abascal. I wish all political groups could say the same thing, with the same roundness. As I said to you, our commitment to child protection has no leftover at all; it is shameful, obscene that you use such a sensitive subject in this way. Look, in the face of child abuse, zero tolerance; in the face of sexual exploitation, disgust and disgust; in the face of this issue, ladies and gentlemen, prevention, detection, denunciation and all the weight of the law. I want to ask all of you for seriousness, respect, responsibility. We are talking about abuse and sexual exploitation of minors, these girls in Mallorca need all the support of the Administration and institutions in order to be able to recover, and I do not think that being the centre of battle with partisan interests is useful for anyone, neither for the girls nor for the child concerned nor for the institutions they are working on. It is already hard enough, painful enough and serious enough to use this subject of ram against a government that - we have to say - has put all the resources and all the efforts to try to clarify this situation as soon as possible. I insist, in relation to this case the institutions are working, the competent authorities are investigating. I wish there was also political opposition to the circumstances. I'm on my way, President. This group wants to tell the Citizens' Lords - to whom they have presented the initiative - that, as one Member said earlier, they have failed a great opportunity, an opportunity for unity. [[Mrs. Martín Llaguno makes negative gestures]] In this way today we would have been able to express the consensus by adopting this non-law proposal, the original wording of which seemed to us to be acceptable. With its self-amendment this morning by rethinking the entire GNP and demanding the creation of a commission of inquiry, we are forced - or perhaps they wish - to vote against it; to vote against it because this very serious case is already being brought to justice. By the way, you show that you do not know what the area of competence is for this. Finally, I would say that a commission of inquiry would assume that the victims, the minors and the minor, would have to be at the centre of the political battle again and would only deepen in wounds and pain. [[Protests by Mr De Quinto Romero]] We will therefore vote against to protect these children, not to expose them even further to this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u78	Thank you, Mr. Pons. Mrs Martín, for the sake of acceptance of amendments, do I understand that you are working on a transactional?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u79	We are working on a compromise in which we have collected amendments from all groups. Then we'll move him to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Martin. Is that what you're talking about? THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, ON PENSIONS. [[File number 162/000066]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u81	We continue with the non-law proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Euskal Herria Bildu on pensions. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u82	Arritsalde on; good afternoon. If I had to summarize this non-law proposal that we are presenting today, I could do it with one word: dignity. A proposition to enable decent lives. More than two years ago the pensioners decided to go out on the street to say enough, to denounce that they were being robbed of rights that had cost them so much work and struggle, to demand an end to the policies of cuts, to the impoverishment of their lives. [[The Lord]] Two years ago. The fact is that most of this society has identified itself with that struggle. That is why a social majority has mobilized in Euskal Herria on January 30th, and a majority of the population also of the state is in solidarity with this social movement. Mobilization continues, because they understand that the rules governing pensions are defended. They do so every Monday, so they continue to fill the streets and squares of our peoples, of our country, and that movement in other ways has its manifestations throughout the State, but to demand the same: decent pensions. This proposal that we are presenting today, therefore, is not our proposal, it is not EH Bildu's proposal; it is the demand that we have gathered from the Basque pensioners' movement, which makes it extensible to all people of the state. We simply bring you the message that was heard yesterday in our streets and in our villages, because the solutions that we want for our pensioners we want for all and for all; for the present and also for the future; for the pensioners of today and for the pensioners of the generations that will follow us. This demand is not a whim and it is because reality is very clumsy. Pensioners, pensioners, have lost purchasing power, lost rights and lost an important part of their living conditions. That is why the poverty rate among older persons has increased in recent years. Austerity policies have also, and especially with, them and them. What are they asking for? What is required of us in this proposal? Ensure a public pension system, shield pensions by law, permanently eliminate the unfair sustainability factor by updating the real CPI, and that no minimum pension is below the poverty line. In our case, in our society this threshold would be at 1080 euros, 60% of the average incomes of families. These are the main demands that have moved us and that we have gathered. They are not asking for the moon, only that their rights be respected and guaranteed. We believe that most of this House will agree that these are sensible and above all just demands. In fact, it is also fair to point out that some of these requirements are already being included in the programme agreement signed by the PSOE and the United States. We can for this parliamentary term, and that even some of them are already beginning to be met, as is the 0.9 % increase approved by this government, taking the CPI as an update reference, a measure that we value as a good starting point, even if it is still insufficient. The proposal before you today has three points. The first is to ensure that there will be no pensions below the poverty line. We need to get to that situation, and to take as a reference the definition that exists in the European Union on this threshold and also that which exists in the same European Social Charter, signed by the Spanish State, and which places poverty at the threshold of 60% of the family income of the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of a phrase that will certainly sound to you: we will raise the inter-professional minimum wage to gradually reach 60% of the average wage in Spain, as recommended in the European Social Charter. This phrase is literally reflected in the programmatic agreement signed by the government formations. We understand that the reference to the European Social Charter is also valid in accepting what is essential in order to dignify the lives of workers. It is also to dignify the living conditions of pension families. For us, all of them deserve the same social justice. The second point calls for the transfer of the remaining competences in the field of social security, matters covered by the Gernika Statute and in the naval improvement, which are binding and which we have been waiting for for more than 40 years. We would like to move from unconcrete promises to concrete commitments and deeds. The last point calls for reversing the consequences of pension reforms, which have done so much damage to pensioners and pensioners. We are sure that that too will be something shared by most of this House. Today we hope that this Congress will be up to speed and take a step forward, making these commitments come forward. The Toledo Pact Commission will resume its work next week. There is a need for a clear mandate from this House on the table to set out the objectives of the road ahead. Many of us here today have shared streets, squares and conversations with pensioners, listened to their requests and supported them. That is why today should be an important day for all of them, and that the majority of progress that exists in this House demonstrates that effective steps can be taken in favour of people by improving their lives. It is urgent and untenable to guarantee present and future pensions. Pensioners have the right to receive sufficient income to live with dignity, they have earned it and we owe it to them. Let's not let them down. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u83	Thank you very much, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. For the defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, the Basque Parliamentary Group intervenes in the first place. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, frankly, when I saw the proposal I thought, how is this defined? And I think it's defined by a mixture of three things: unconsciousness, recklessness and electoralism. Unconsciousness, why? Because the right of Basques and Basques, the right already in the Statute of Guernica, is not put to the vote in this House. We have never brought him to this House, that is already a right. What do you want me to say to this House that no, no to something already contained in the statute? Do you think that's wise? What I think is an unconsciousness. Secondly, it is imprudent because, with their initiative, what they are inciting is to obstruct a debate on the part of the right which was already being conducted in this House. Mr Ruiz de Pinedo said that there must be a clear mandate for the Toledo Pact table. Is this the best way to start the debate in the Toledo Pact? Really? Through a vote in this House? Do you think that with this you are doing a favor to the pensioners, to the improvement of the pensions and to the insurance of the system? Thirdly, electoralism, because they included it on the agenda, precisely thinking that at the previous week's meeting of the Basque Government and the Spanish Government were not going to agree on the transfer of pensions under Article 18 and the fifth transitional provision. And what's going on? Oh, surprise!, turns out he remembers and gets on the schedule. What did they want it for? To say that nothing progresses, etc. But for the first time, I repeat, for the first time in history, one Government accepts that, indeed, the statute must also be complied with at that point. In the end, what they do is to put the partisan struggle ahead of the country's progress and the advancement of its citizens. [[Mr. Ruiz of Pinedo Undiano makes negative gestures with his hand]] Don't do this to me with your finger and listen to what I tell you because I think I'm giving you reason. They are also putting their partisan struggle ahead of an improvement in pensions that is already under way and advanced, and it will have to be through the Toledo Pact, not through a motion or a GNP that we draw here. Now that the Toledo Pact begins, do you have a group? They'll have some position, but expose it there. They put everything at risk and confuse the contributory system with social assistance. It is true that today part of it is social protection, but the basis we are talking about is a contributory system, it has nothing to do with issues that you mix. We will have to talk about everything and, of course, we will have to talk in that Toledo Pact that non-contributory pensions have to leave. We will also have to talk, even before the two governments begin to discuss, if the Spanish Government brings the minimum income here, about how all this fits into the pension system. For that what is needed is discretion and bring and speak within the proper forums, not to remove here a banner in pre-election period. They came in here, I insist, like an elephant in a junkyard. Have common sense and accept the amendment, accept the amendment!, because of course what it seeks is to ensure now a larger CPI for lower non-contributory pensions. Toledo Pact, Toledo Pact doing what? Ensuring the viability of the system and, on the other hand, examining where the poverty threshold is for setting new pensions. Secondly, the agreement between the two Governments to make such transfers was ratified. Thirdly, there is a legislative commitment to further development. You have summed it up in four points and I will read them even if I repeat what I have just said: guaranteeing the system, shielding the sustainability factor and no one below the poverty line. For that is what is proposed in the amendment, there you have it. Therefore, if you stop doing electoralism, stop manipulating the pension movement and stop thinking that only you represent the pensioners, and the rest of the House and the others do nothing; perhaps between common sense. Let the discussions of the Toledo Pact begin as they have to, do not call into question the Basque transfer of pensions, and therefore accept that amendment. In this way, all they do is put everything at risk: put the transfer at risk or at least question it in this House; create an excuse for the right to stand aside from the Toledo Pact and, frankly, I have seen clumsy actions in this House, but this is one of them.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u85	Thank you so much. Next, for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is at least disappointing to see a representative of Bildu up here, in this rostrum, come and talk to us about worthy life when they have never been characterized by defending the lives of those who do not think like them. [[Applauds]] I will tell you one thing: there was once, in 1986, in which the Socialist Party had the opportunity to accede to the Government of the Basque Country. There was once that Txiki Benegas could be lehendakari of the PSOE if he had accepted the nationalist demand to transfer the management of Social Security to the Basque Country. There was once when the PSOE made decisions putting the country's interests ahead of its own. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not my story, this story has told us this weekend, Ramon Jáuregui. For the younger, in case it doesn't ring a bell, a note: Jáuregui is socialist, former President of the Basque Government and former Minister of the Presidency of the Government of Spain. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the alarm voices coming out of your own party, well, from the PSOE of the past that you sanchoists have swallowed. Is there anyone on the ERE bench who still thinks like the PSOE back then? Are any of you closer to Benegas and Jáuregui than to the Basque independenceists? What's left of you progressives? The Sanchista party, present here on my left today, holds the power of a weak majority and knows it, so it has decided to go a step further, to go where the state dilutes itself until it disappears. For a sample we have Catalonia, Basque Country, where, with its different vindictive intensity, both Catalan separatists and Basque nationalists smell the weakness of Mr Sánchez. Torra, Rufián, Otegui, take advantage of the fragility of this government in order to obtain its longing regime change that the sanchista party camouflages and that no one believes anymore. They say: No, it is a simple dialogue!, it is the agenda of the reunion!; disguises the reality of what is simple and plainly a blackmail. Today EH Bildu brings us this proposal not of law so that, with our votes, we validate a blackmail as a parliamentary transaction; so that, with our votes, we try against the cohesion of the State; so that, with our votes, we break the equality proclaimed in article 14 of our Constitution. And the nationalists know well how to get their support, and so the Basque Country has been achieving skills at the expense of the needs of the occupants who were in Moncloa. What are you going to leave for the next round of assignments, Navarra's annexation? No one in forty years, so far, had dared to give up Social Security to any autonomy because of the serious consequences it would have. In forty years, the demand of the nationalists has always been the same, the only thing that has changed has been you, lords of the PSOE, the ERE party, which not only begins to empty the state of competence in the Basque Country, but also campaigns the nationalists for the next elections. What do the Socialists of the Basque Country have to say about all this? What other points of the PNV or EH Bildu program will assume the Sanchista party as their own in the Basque Country? With this assignment, ladies and gentlemen, you are facilitating the dismantling of the state where it is most needed by many constitutionalists. You allow Basque nationalism to continue its path towards independence without the need for a coup d'état - there you were not very smart, Catalan independenceist ladies and gentlemen -. Well, transferring pensions is a serious threat to social cohesion. The social security system and the one-size-fits-all box is our State's greatest success because it has guaranteed equal rights and equal treatment for all Spaniards regardless of where they resided. The social security system is the fundamental pillar of our welfare state. I know you'll insist that the single box is not going to break and that we're alarmists. Of course it won't break, as if the Basque nationalists were fools. No, you're very smart, who would want to run out of money to pay the pensions of their retirees with an annual deficit of EUR 4 billion? No one, no one in his right mind. The nationalists need the single box, full of solidarity and the work of the Spanish, to guarantee the pensions of retired Basques who are also retired Spanish and who will receive their pension from the Spanish State, but to which you want to put the seal of the Basque shield. As they weaken the Spanish state, they take advantage of it at zero cost; their business is round. Ladies and gentlemen, you are taking us on a dangerous path right now, at an exceptional time and time in these territories, when you should demonstrate maximum responsibility by respecting and ensuring that all Spaniards are equal. The Spanish cannot be robbed of their right to comment on a matter that concerns everyone.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u87	Mrs. Muñoz, you must finish immediately.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u88	I'm done. This cannot be a bilateral agreement from which Minister Darias negotiates from Government to Government and legitimizes as the sole interlocutor a functioning Basque Government. Finally, addressing the parliamentary group that is presenting this proposal, you know, gentlemen of Bildu...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u89	Mrs. Muñoz, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u90	I'm done, Mr. President. Know, gentlemen of Bildu, that we do not swallow your mantra of solidarity. Solidarity is the basis of the amendments that we have tabled, which seek exactly the opposite of what you seek; equality of social benefits regardless of where the Spanish reside, because equality, ladies and gentlemen, even if they do not believe it, is priceless. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u91	Thank you very much. Next, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-en Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Jover Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, as you well know, the main objective of our confederal group is the recovery and strengthening of the welfare state. In this respect, we have agreed with the Socialist Party to update pensions in accordance with the actual CPI by law and on a permanent basis. In compliance with this agreement, one of the first measures already taken has been the increase in pensions, not without having to hear the right-wing gurus predicting that the economy will sink; the same canteen as when we raised the minimum wage, and not only has it not sunk but it has improved. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, despite the different country concepts that we can have, the progressive forces are the majority in this House and we have an obligation, each with the strength that people have given us, to ensure that our older and future generations will enjoy decent lives. That is why, with the will to continue making progress in a possible and continuous way, we have proposed amendments to this GNP, amendments which we consider to be the safe way forward in the short and medium term to achieve the common objective, which is nothing more than to ensure that our pensioners receive sufficient income. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree to accept your compromise because it is the way forward in maintaining the purchasing power of higher pensions, but above all by increasing minimum and non-contributory pensions, until there is no pension below the poverty line. [[Applauds]] In the Balearic Islands, our and our pensioners are well aware of the disparity between what is perceived and the cost of living. While the average pension is 912 euros, the price of a rental is 687, according to data from the Ministry of Development. In addition, they support one of the most expensive baskets in the whole country due to insularity. We can't let our pensioners down. Our obligation is to reach agreements, agreements that guarantee them decent lives, and for this we only need to have the capacity for dialogue, willingness to listen and the objective of reaching agreements that will improve their lives. For these reasons I also ask the right-wing bench, which seems not to be there, to support this improvement of pensions, because there is no reason not to want to improve the lives of our pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, our pensioners are pointing the way and united with the social partners we can guarantee the sustainability and sufficiency of our public pension system, without a single pensioner remaining behind. Ladies and gentlemen, not accepting this GNP is going against the country. We cannot allow neither now nor in the future the'vendepatrias' to leave in misery our pensioners, the Basques, the Baleares or those of any other community, who have been and are the real heroes of this country, who have brought forth their children and their grandchildren in these indignant times of austerity to which the PP has subjected us, using everyone's money to save banks while sinking into misery a large part of the population, yes, favoring a few to become millionaires. I want to end by thanking the movement of pensioners from Euskal Herria and the rest of the country, who remind us week after week what their rights are, who are not given anything and what social justice they demand. Ladies and gentlemen, the social security system is the main pillar of our welfare state, won by citizens after many years of struggle, with effort and making concessions to ensure coexistence. It is the duty of all Members of this House to row in the same direction, in the sense of defending our people and for social justice. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u93	Thank you so much. Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u94	Good afternoon. Good afternoon. A non-legislative proposal from the Euskal Group Herria Bildu is before the debate in this House, and the Socialist Group can only make an amendment to the whole, even to the explanatory statement, because it ignores what our public pension system has been over these forty years; a redistributive instrument, the most redistributive par excellence of the welfare state. Secondly, as regards transfers in accordance with the Basque Statute, he did not know the meetings that had taken place so far, as well as the repeated jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, or at least the perception of that spokesman. That our public pension system is eminently redistributive and pivotal on the principle of sufficiency and solidarity derives from the Constitution and attests to it how it has affected people, beneficiaries, pensioners and improvements in benefits themselves over the years. This was so, it was increasing and consolidating itself as a redistributive element of wealth until the popular government arrived, which led to setbacks and loss of purchasing power in pensions, an issue that has to be reversed, has already been said by other spokesmen. Social transfers, pensions, are the best way to redistribute and, of course, to influence the correction of poverty, and that is what the Government is doing. Bildu's spokesman said so; reality is clumsy and continues to point out that there are risks. Indeed, there are risks that we have to reverse and, in that sense, the socialist government already in 2018 and 2019 increased and guaranteed purchasing power with the real CPI. I would tell Bildu's spokesman to look at both the decrees adopted in 2018 and 2019, in which we doubled the CPI that had occurred, as well as other improvements in benefits such as widowhood. The economic sufficiency of pensions, decent enough pensions, are essential to the objective of this Government, as well as to the Toledo Pact itself; also the correction of the poverty rate, which affects a significant part of the citizenry in a deplorable and truly precarious situation, as economic sustainability is equally important. These are the objectives of the progressive coalition government and this was pointed out in the first royal decree adopted, which was no more or less than the increase in the CPI. Those are also the objectives of the Toledo Pact. I would recommend to the right-wing bench that I say this for the intervention of the spokesman for Citizens that the recommendations of the Toledo Pact be read in depth because already in the 0, in the 1, in the 2 and in the 15 accredits and agrees that sufficiency. But in addition, and to talk about transfers, I would ask the spokesman of the right, of Citizens, to look at the Constitution, as well as the rulings of the Constitutional Court that mark the way, a clear and diaphanous path. In pensions, uniform regulation is essential and ensures the principles of cash unity, sustainability and financial solidarity. That's how I recommend it even... [[Mrs. Muñoz Vidal makes affirmative signs]] Don't tell me yes, read it because I don't think you know it, at least because of your intervention I thought so. We have proposed a compromise amendment agreed with other groups that seeks to ensure social sustainability - therefore decent pensions - and economic sustainability - thus strengthening the system - to go with an agreement because it is the best way to make solid reforms, agreements in the Toledo Pact. I would tell the spokesman for Citizens to read recommendation 0, which expressly sets out the principles that define - I read textually - our social security system: universality, unity, solidarity, redistribution of income, equality and sufficiency, opposing - as he says - any radical transformation that involves the breakup. Read it, because it seems to me that there is a great lack of knowledge. In order to finish - other spokesmen said -, worthy pensions are necessary, and this amendment that we propose takes into account, corrections in poverty, dialogue, because this is what the Constitutional Court itself says - I am finishing, President - the agreement to comply with the law, because you keep it at times, as you see, gentlemen of the right, and of course reverse the reforms of the People's Party with the acquiescence of Citizens, the reform of 2013, which entailed the loss of purchasing power of many families. Today the Government is already guaranteeing the real CPI, a coalition and progressive government. Now it is the dialogue in the Toledo Pact, and I do not want to think that you are going to take off again, gentlemen of Citizens and of the People's Party, from the Toledo Pact, as you did a year ago. That's what they did, don't look for excuses. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u95	Thank you so much. Mr Sayas López has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In case one of your lordships hadn't noticed, we have elections in the Basque Country, and that's why we can understand the theatre we attended this afternoon between PNV and Euskal Herria Bildu. But I'm going to tell you one thing: put Navarra aside because Navarra neither has elections nor is part of the Basque Country. [[Applauds]] Euskal Herria, of which you speak even in the articulate, exists only in your nationalist obsession. It doesn't exist anywhere else. [[Applauds]] It is neither a territorial entity nor a legal entity, and I will give you a much worse news than this: it will never exist, because it is faced with the will of the vast majority of Navarro citizens, who are outlying Navarros and who are part of the common project of Spain. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] If this is not enough to reject this motion, I will tell you that when EH Bildu brings the proposal to this House, one, or he does not know the Spanish pension system; two, the same goes for pensioners and what matters is his nationalist obsession; or, three, he wants to change the system. Because one of the most obvious risks is longevity in a guaranteed, distributed and universal public service system such as Spanish, and therefore the more the system is adhered to, the more sustainability is guaranteed. It would be much better to have a European system than a Spanish one, but of course what is inconceivable is a system to which the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country or the Foral Community of Navarre belong, simply because they have no population mass to make a pension system sustainable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u97	Thank you so much. For the same group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. We are going to vote in favour of all those measures that will strengthen the sovereignty of peoples and, therefore, the control of resources. For us it's good news, even if it's in an autonomous framework that we don't share. It should be recalled that the Constitutional Court suspended the Catalan Social Protection Agency in October 2017. I wish the Basques and Basques better luck so that, if this were to go ahead, the Constitutional Court would not give them their rights. We wanted to take this opportunity to present our framework in the pension debate. For us it is important, from the outset, to make a criticism of the model. We understand that work as a way of accessing rights is an outdated model; it is a framework of the 80s and 90s because right now the labour market is precarious and wages are miserable. We have data from the UGT at the end of 2019. The UGT knows that it is not characterized by being very anti-capitalist, but it has already denounced that the retirement pension is currently about 600 euros and that of widowhood is just over 740 euros a month: misery and precariousness. But it is also that a framework anchored in work invisibles a lot of margins: sex workers, contractless domestic workers, housewives, paperless people, etc. It's over, Mr. President. Our political project is anchored in pensions linked to life and not to the labour market; that the State takes care of life, the well-being of communities and that good living is the cornerstone of the political project; that wealth is redistributed and charity is not made with the well-being of our elders and the people who need care. We also want to talk in the framework of basic income pensions because this is going to take care of and redistribute wealth. The Lord of the PNV spoke of common sense, for us the irresponsible and strange thing is to continue living in a system anchored in death, misery and precariousness.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u99	Thank you so much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. I will speak very briefly. For the BNG it is fair to raise the level of minimum pensions and, in addition, a need for effective social cohesion policies. We noted here three weeks ago, when the decree of linear increase of 0.9% came to validation, that further increase of minimum pensions and non-contributory pensions would allow to decrease, with the prospect of eliminating, the different gaps: that of gender and also that existing between nations and territories of the State. He recalled that Galicia has the second lowest pensions in the State, with almost 50% below 700 euros, and Ourense the lowest, 807 euros, i.e. 543 euros less than Madrid. They will understand why we want to raise the minimum pension to EUR 1080, without losing the horizon that pensions and minimum wages go hand in hand and stand at 60% of the average wage because it is a matter of justice. Finally - and I finish - we support the transfer of management of social security. Indeed, a competition also pending from those contained in the Statute of Galicia, article 33, and which this State, which presumes against all evidence of being the most decentralized in the world, has never, until now, seriously addressed. It's all about getting started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u101	Thank you. Mr. Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have not heard in this House for a long time some speeches as dirty and as abject as those I have heard in the previous point. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u104	The real interest of the former GNP, of course, was to take advantage of the party and not the interest of minors. And you'll let me say, because you've been summoned here to a person who can't defend himself... you've been talking about tomorrow's meeting for a long time and I've shut up, so shut up. [[Protests.-Several Members: No, no]] [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u105	Wait a minute, Mr. Baldoví, I'll stop your time. [[A Member of Parliament: To order!]] Please, I beg your silence. Mr. Baldoví, get to the point, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u106	It will not be the right hand who gives me education lessons. We've seen it all day of the investiture. [[Protests]] Adhering to the GNP, I was going to vote in favour of it, on all points A and C. Pensions, from the point of view of Compromís, must be shielded in the Constitution - public pensions - so that no right-wing gentleman will ever be tempted to privatize them. [[Rumors]] In the investiture agreement, point 7 was the ratification of the European Social Charter. We therefore agreed with what you proposed, that the amount of pensions should not be less than 60% of the minimum wage. Look, on the issue of pensions, this right will probably have to change a lot. The citizens demand it on the subject of agriculture, the citizens demand it on the subject of pensions; the citizens want agreements and do not want the noise that this right presents to us every day. I'm done. Let us also think about eliminating the reduction coefficient for those pensioners who have contributed more than 40 years. I think it would be to do justice to those people who have contributed so much to the development of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. The next item is Mr Boadella Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u108	Good afternoon. With regard to this proposal, we of course think it is a shared demand. I believe that no one in this room can be against guaranteeing sufficient income, guaranteeing the dignity of the elderly, guaranteeing in the end the purchasing capacity, while recognizing the great work done by all the mobilizations that are taking place to put this debate on the table. Therefore, of course it is a demand we share, but let me tell you with all solemnity that it is also a shared trajectory, I have said it again from this rostrum. The political legacy, the trajectory in recent years of the political force that we represent has been that of a major and necessary actor to help articulate the social security system, the pension system that we currently have. And I am talking not only about the historical trajectory, but also about recent events, validating, for example, a few weeks ago the decree-law that guaranteed the rise of pensions. They will therefore find us here, but we believe that the framework should be the Toledo Pact. The Toledo Pact avoids this pre-electoral spectacle that we have seen today, also prevents the rise of the bench of the right and allows much better transactional work without so much focus, without so much visualization of the struggles between political parties. But we sincerely believe that microsurgery is not worth it. We have to continue working on this and there they will find us, but we also need a cross-sectional vision and an intergenerational vision. We do not need a microsurgery that today approves this amount in the pension without knowing what scenario we will have in ten years' time. We need to tackle this issue in a global way - I am finishing, Mr President - we fully share the demand and, yes, we call on all political groups to lead this debate towards the framework of the Toledo Pact. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u109	Thank you so much. Mr Salvador i Lluc has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u110	Too late for everyone. A preview. I am always very grateful that some call us nationalists the ideological heirs of the one, large and free, the ideological heirs of the national side, the ideological heirs of national Catholicism. It seems that in Spain there are no more Spanish nationalists, but I think there are many and they have changed very little. Having said that, first of all, and to the thread of this non-law proposal presented by the Bildu Parliamentary Group, I would like to express a sincere thanks to all pensioners who, Monday after Monday, go out to the Basque Country to claim their rights and the defense of pensions with the so beautiful slogan of 'Government who governs, pensions are defended'. In fact, groups of pensioners come out in all the cities, also in Tarragona, Catalonia and the rest of the state, in the different villages, to defend their pensions because they see them threatened and that is something we have to overcome. Also in France, where the slogan is not 'Government who governs, pensions are defended', but 'On laâche rien, on laâche rien, on laâche rien', which means 'We will not yield anything, we will not yield anything, we will not yield anything'. With them there will always be Republican Left, with whom they will not yield in this matter. Having said that, we will vote yes to this non-legislative proposal from the Bildu Parliamentary Group, although it is true that our proposals go much further and we will set them out when appropriate, after listening to Minister Escrivá, Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, who will appear on 27 February and 5 March. That is where we will explain our proposals to see if we come to an agreement on an issue on which we will not give in. We say this here: with the Toledo Pact or without the Toledo Pact, pensions are defended. We will not give in to this. Having said that, we will vote that yes, as I said before, to the three proposals made to us by the Bildu Parliamentary Group, as it cannot be otherwise; first, because it is of justice, and, second, because the fulfilment of the statutory contents of the Basque Country is obligatory, there should be no need to bring it here, it is logical. As for the dialogue between the Government of Spain and the Government of Euskal Herria, always respect and dialogue, as it cannot otherwise be in a party that understands the kingdom as a confederal state at least. That is why we will vote in favour. And, as I said, rule who rules, pensions are defended. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u111	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Next, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u112	Thank you, Mr. President. I said in this rostrum just a few weeks ago that the insurance company of the investiture was called ETA. This no-law proposal that today defends its laguntzails and released is nothing more than an invoice dated 15 January in exchange for the investment insurance; in fact, it has been very revealing to see the lords of the Basque Nationalist Party attacking Bildu so harshly, but we were only in the face of a small fight between insurance companies. It has also been very revealing to see how the Socialist Party has been much softer with Bildu than the Basque Nationalist Party has been. But everything responds to the same reasons, and it is that this government depends on the votes or abstentions of those who come to dock and break the single Social Security box today. [[Applauds]] Bildu's no-law proposal calls for nothing more and nothing less than bilaterality, equal treatment between the Basque Autonomous Community and the Government of Spain; that is to say, the breakdown of sovereignty, which is not left to the head that can happen given how Mr Sánchez's envoys head down when they see the rebel Torra. They demand more skills, which is also not strange given that they claim to disappear from the State, and especially in prisons, so that murderers go out on the street, and in the Social Security, so that while some pensioners have their pensions guaranteed, others, those who are not Basque, risk them. Today we come to this rostrum precisely to say that the investiture is mortgaged - we come to say it once again and we will say it throughout the legislature - and that now the receipts of that investiture arrive and that the PSOE will not pay them with its Houses of the People, but will pay them with the breakdown of the Social Security box, which corresponds to all Spaniards, to satisfy the enemies of the Constitution, of national sovereignty and, therefore, the enemies of this House. The delivery of more than €9 billion of the Single Social Security Fund is the payment of fraud and treason. We are facing the surrender of nuclear competition from the State to those who have been doing politics for forty years with fear, with the dead, with selfishness, with supremacy and with privileges, even though they are now walking through the halls of Madrid in the face of the applause and praise of the infidels and the disillusioned. Gentlemen of the PSOE, we're talking about you. Explain to your voters in Castile-La Mancha, Extremadura, Andalusia and all over Spain that you give these lords exclusive competences of the State, breaking the nation, breaking equality and breaking the prosperity of the most needy Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Please explain that your priority is to satisfy the privileged of the Basque Nationalist Party and Bildu and not the Spanish with poverty pensions or ruined farmers. Please explain that they do so unilaterally, going beyond the Toledo Pact and violating article 149 of the Constitution, which grants the State that exclusive competence, as denounced by the Professional Association of the Higher Body of Social Security Letters. The aim of ETA and the Basque Nationalist Party has always been to expel Spain from Basque land, denying its own identity and history. And little by little, because of their cowardice and lack of scruples, ladies and gentlemen, they are advancing in their objectives: with the gradual breakdown of the constitutional regime, with the legality of their political arm, which is a real lapa bomb in this House, and they are winning because they have used a regime of terror for forty years, because they have managed to make it impossible for national parties to make the lists free in many municipalities on Basque land and on Navarra land, because they have obtained the exile of thousands of Basques and because they have also managed to expel a third of State officials and also the Navarra Civil Guard. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are strong governments, there are weak governments, there are puppet governments and then there is yours, which is a slave government of separatism and narco-communist dictatorships and which is at the service of the enemies of Spain. I conclude by warning the liberated lords of Bildu and the lords of the Basque Nationalist Party that, even if they have a government handed over to the enemies of Spain, they will never succeed in breaking the unity of our homeland or stealing our little homeland. And I say this, that I am Basque and I rise to this rostrum to defend that you have no more right to bet on privileges and supremacism, as you have been doing for so many years during this democracy. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u113	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Cabezón Casas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u114	Thank you very much, President. Mr Baldoví, I understand your nerves, but I would instead vote in favour of this committee of inquiry into abuses, to clarify any doubts about those people you have defended here today. That's what you should do.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u115	Mr Cabezón, please get to the point, as I have mentioned before to another speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u116	All right. Ladies and gentlemen, today Bildu is bringing a proposal that my group will not accept, among other reasons, because it is full of falsehoods about the economic and pension policies that the People's Party launched in its years of government. Pensions and pensioners have always been a priority for the People's Party; moreover, we have raised them to these eleven state pacts to start the legislature with the Socialist Party. But in order to analyze the management of the People's Party we must start by reminding the Socialist Party of the management that we received, because its policies put the public pension system at risk with the destruction of more than three and a half million jobs - I remind its Secretary of State for Social Security of how badly they did when they let three million jobs be destroyed - and also with the freezing of pensions - voted by Pedro Sánchez and some more socialists who are still sitting here today - which meant the greatest loss of purchasing power of pensions in our history, with more than two billion loss of purchasing power for our pensioners and more than 70 billion euros of deficit in Social Security due to the lack of income due to this destruction of jobs. Faced with this, the People's Party had to do three things mainly to guarantee social security: the first, not to ask for the ransom, which would have meant that the pensioners of this country had seen their pensions diminished, as in the countries in our environment that were rescued, which suffered a reduction in pensions of between 15 and 40%; the second, to raise pensions every year and guarantee them by law - yes, to guarantee them by law - and with always favorable report from the AIReF. You always blame us for these increases in pensions, but the AIReF endorsed them; that is, their current Minister of Social Security endorsed them. [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel: All right!-Applause]] Now they will not just have to ask the People's Party for explanations, they will also have to ask their Minister of Social Security. Finally, making employment the best tool to reverse the deterioration of the social security system. The more and better jobs, the more and the better pensions. And with those modifications, ladies and gentlemen, we have been able to pay more pensions than ever and higher than ever. These were the policies that the People's Party carried out to guarantee pensions and defend our pensioners. These are the policies of the People's Party: a sustainable, equitable and supportive pension system. But, ladies and gentlemen, I am drawn to the joint amendment tabled by PSOE, Podemos and PNV; I do not yet understand it. I understand that Mr Aitor Esteban here today in an election campaign is throwing away the mess with Mr de Bildu, but that you sign today that we are closing before the public social security system and the start of the breakup of the single box I do not finish understanding. I do not yet understand that the Socialist Party lends itself to this. And I do not finish understanding it because today Mr Aitor Esteban from this rostrum has also stepped out because it is the first time that a government has placed the management of social security on the transfer agenda by the Basque Government. It draws my attention to the fact that I say it so loud and clear and you support those proposals. I do not understand how the Socialist Party can be questioning the single Social Security box; I do not really understand how they can be justifying that the claims made by the PNV would not break the Social Security box. I should like to draw attention to the continuing consideration of the PNV proposal, which talks about collecting contributions, paying pensions, carrying out flows, drawing up anti-fraud plans, recognising pensions and benefits, managing the system of postponing obligations. This may be the beginning of the end of the social security system, ladies and gentlemen, but we are not alone. Today they are trying to take a picture here to say that the People's Party or the banks on the right are the only ones who are against this. No, socialist gentlemen, we are not alone. This weekend there have been many who have protested against this measure, the Pensioner Platform of Castile and León; Pepe Álvarez, leader of UGT: The single box and the single social security legislation are neither questionable nor negotiable; former senior PSOE officials, Octavio Granados saying that the single box of the social security system cannot be broken; labour inspectors and social security lawyers. [[sample press clippings]] All these are the new bulldozers who believe that the Social Security box cannot be broken and that we cannot enter the game of the Basque Nationalist Party. And we, ladies and gentlemen, tell them...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u117	Mr. Cabezón, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u118	... It is not that the People's Party or the right - I am concluding - will put a red line to the agreements of the Toledo Pact for these transfers, it is that it is a red line that is included in the recommendations of the Toledo Pact the transfer of the management of social security to the Basque Nationalist Party. That is why we are opposed and I want to make this clear to the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u119	Mr. Cabezón, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u120	I'm done with this. We say it loud and clear: we are going to the Toledo Pact Commission with the best disposition, but we are not going to go into blackmail, nor are we going to dynamite the Toledo Pact from within - as its governing partners did. Collaboration yes, submission no; transfers not because our pensioners from all over the territory do not deserve it and the Basque nationalists and the Basque pensioners neither. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Cabezón. Mr Ruiz de Pinedo, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u122	We are working precisely on the compromise amendment and we will pass it on to all groups when we have drafted it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u123	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u124	We turn to the next point, the motion of urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro, on the measures to be taken by the Government in view of Morocco's delimitation of its maritime border affecting the Canary Islands and Western Sahara. Mrs Oramas has the floor for the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2017 the Moroccan Government published a proposal to amend two laws on the extension of its territorial sea and the exclusive economic zone, laws affecting the Canary Islands, waters of Spanish sovereignty. This proposal was recovered in December 2019 and has been processed and approved by the two Chambers of Parliament of the neighbouring country. On the other hand, it legally extends its maritime space by incorporating the waters of Western Sahara, which may hinder a just, lasting and mutually accepted solution by the parties the United Nations has been seeking since 1991. The response of the Government of Spain has been notoriously insufficient and late, with a trip by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the same day that the laws were passed in the House of Trustees of the Alawite Kingdom. The information provided at this parliamentary seat in the relevant inquiry by the Minister has not been reassuring; the only promise that it will not be a unilateral decision does not proscribe a policy of consummated facts and does not replenish the necessary friendly and trusting relationship between the two States, mainly because that decision of the Moroccan legislator requires an agreement with Spain in the definition of the maritime median to guarantee Spanish sovereignty over the entire maritime and land territory of the Canary Islands. That is why we have tabled a motion, as you know, where we demanded that the President of the Government of Spain, Mr Sánchez, make an immediate official visit to Morocco, as all the Spanish Presidents had done, that there should be a firm position and, above all, that before the Minister's words that Morocco had the right to set up and file the dossier to mediate with the Canary Islands and its territorial waters and that if we invaded Spanish waters we would already go to the UN, what we were proposing was a proactive action - Morocco has the right, Spain has the right - and not continue with the phrases that throughout all democracy we have heard from both the PSOE and the PP when we brought this issue here. The Foreign Ministers always said this: the delimitation of maritime areas depends on factors of international policy. And with that, they didn't do anything. We believe that the time has come to work together with a friendly country such as Morocco, and I would therefore like to thank all the groups for their amendments. But it seemed to us very important that an agreement should come out of Congress today, and in that sense I have presented a compromise which I have given to all groups and which I hope will come out unanimously. It is not what I would like, but I believe that for the first time, in a situation of unilateral action by Morocco, the firmness of the Congress of Deputies with the Government will be good news for the Canary Islands and for this country. In that regard, I would like to thank all the parties and all the spokespersons for their work and hope that this motion and the compromise amendment will come out unanimously. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u126	Thank you. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also lay down its position, first of all Mr Rego Candaimil, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Fixed the position of the BNG. We support the defence of the interests of the Canary Islands and its territorial waters in the face of Morocco's unilateral action, which also implies another step in Morocco's policy of trying to consolidate its illegal de facto domination over Western Sahara. It should be recalled that the Spanish State has a historical debt to the Saharan people since the time when, with dictator Franco still alive and successor Borbón acting as head of State, he betrayed the people of the Sahara by allowing the Moroccan occupation, de facto handing over the territory to Morocco. Forty-four years later, the occupation continued, as did the Moroccan dilatory tactics to avoid UN resolutions and to prevent the referendum on self-determination of the Saharan people, but also because of the passivity or complicity of the international community, including Spain. It is time for the Spanish State to recognize the Democratic Saharaui Arab Republic or, at the very least, to really push the referendum of self-determination of the Saharan people for the independence of Western Sahara, because it is of justice. That is why, beyond the fact that we may not share some nuances in the text, we will vote in favour of the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u128	Thank you very much. Following the word Mr Baldoví i Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If there is a shameful and ignominious episode in the history of this country, it is the role that Spain has played with the Saharan people. More than forty years of abandonment of a village and some who are all day giving breast strokes saying: Spain, Spain, Spain have not said for years or mu and have allowed it. We were in Aaiún with two Members - Mr Iñarritu and Mr Nuet - and a PNV senator and we were able to check it with our own eyes. Saharawi citizens who had the Spanish DNI and who had been abandoned for forty years. I think they deserve, I say this above all because of the blows to the chest, the same treatment as Sephardic Jews, to have historical nationality. We will vote in favour of this proposal by Mrs Oramas, even with the amendment. We had tabled two amendments which, in our view, improved the motion. The first was, of course, to equate the Saharans with the rest of the peoples that make up the Spanish historical community and to facilitate their access to Spanish nationality. I think it would be an act of justice. Secondly, many families in this country welcome many boys and girls from the Sahara, who come here in the summer to access medical services that cannot have the camps. In that second amendment we said that that office that was processing these visas in Aaiún so that they could come could continue to do so, that they would not force humble families to make more than 1000 kilometers to have access to these visas to come here. Honestly, it's fair that this was done. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausa.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u131	Good afternoon. Good afternoon. It is my first speech in plenary, but the one who should be taking my seat right now is Councilman Quim Forn. I would not be here, but would continue with my ordered life in Girona's demarcation, if an exceptional situation did not exist in Catalonia with political prisoners and exiles. [[Applauds]] Mrs Oramas has already put forward the position of Junts per Catalunya: we will vote in favour of her proposal and also of the compromise amendment. The minister told us in her appearance in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that she wanted a strategic and forward-looking foreign service, that it could be observed or acted, and that she proposed acting. In this sense, if the Kingdom of Morocco is drawing up laws with which it intends to delimit maritime spaces, and if this occurs unilaterally and the Kingdom of Spain does not express its disformity, which would surprise us because, in the face of unilateral acts, the Kingdom of Spain always expresses its disformity; then if the Kingdom of Spain does not protest, would it not be the Kingdom of Spain showing its acquiescence? If that is the case, we could find ourselves faced with a situation of facts consummated and accepted by Spain in this case. The Minister said last week in this Chamber - I quote textually - that I will carefully study the content of the provisions adopted and reserve the right to react to the extent we consider appropriate. What kind of reactions do they intend to carry out? Do you want to take legal action? Can't things be solved politically and preventively in advance? Allowing time to pass implies that political issues that can be resolved at a given time will end up inquisition and will be much more difficult to resolve. Now it is only a question of acting and, therefore, adding it to the case of Morocco, if the borders are so concerned, why is it not used and acted to delimit the maritime areas of Algeria, for example, or Italy, which are also not delimited? I'm finishing up. It is a long process that of maritime delimitations; said the minister, yes, but it seems that there is a legislature and in principle there seems to be time. Then it would be good if he took advantage of it to dialogue in advance and to delimit all these spaces. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u132	Thank you. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Vega Arias has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u133	Do you know what the official language of the Saharans is? Spanish, despite the continuous attempts made by the Kingdom of Morocco to abandon our common language. [[applause]] Do you know what the official currency of the Saharans is? To the peseta. Let us see what the Government is doing in the face of this situation, in which people are living a continuous violation of human rights by Morocco, which has been denouncing Amnesty International and the UN delegation itself, which stands out in Sahara. Let's see what the government's doing. Recently the current Spanish consul in Rabat decides, after forty years, to close the Spanish depository in Western Sahara. The common depository, a consulate with some skills, let's call to sum up, minors. This mainly has two consequences: one, making it extremely difficult for children travelling to Spain and mainly to the Canary Islands to come this summer, while host families who have already scheduled their visits from dentists, operations, etc. are waiting for a solution. Another difficulty, perhaps the most serious, is the custody of documentation, for example, the identification of one hundred and twenty Spaniards, I repeat, one hundred and twenty Spaniards, who have their DNI and who still want to have it. Let us hope that the dismissed official will require in writing the transfer of responsibility for this custody. There is a possibility that the Kingdom of Morocco will be able to do so and obtain the identification of those 120 000 Saharans who still retain Spanish nationality. It is suspected that the depositary of El Aaiún will be suspended while Morocco calls for the opening of consulates in the Sahara, even if it does not have a population in the Sahara, for example the Comoros Islands, and there is of course evidence that this Government is favouring the illegal claims of the Moroccans to avoid the United Nations mandate to carry out the inevitable process of a referendum in the Sahara, by putting obstacles and extending it in time so that Moroccans born in the Sahara can be included in the census as Saharans. I would like to draw your attention and say that Spain, for legal purposes, is the administrator of the autonomous territory of Western Sahara. [[Applauds]] There is no discussion, so we do not understand what the Kingdom of Morocco is doing by illegally administering the property of the Saharans, like the one that is currently being raised here. As an administrator of Spain, this Government is assuming legal responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations, and I will cite, for example, article 73 on the obligation to promote the social, economic and educational well-being of the Saharan people. Meanwhile, the Kingdom of Morocco continues to carry out a continuing occupation, as defined by the General Assembly of the United Nations, and it is clear that as long as the United Nations does not have a census with guarantees to enable the compulsory referendum to take place, Morocco's claim to expand jurisdictional waters, including those of the Sahara, is of such gravity in colonial law that it will never be recognized internationally, so we understand that it is nothing more than a smokescreen that hides its claims on Western Sahara. The position of our parliamentary group on this motion will be yes, and on anyone else who tries to alleviate this shame for Spain. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vega. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Mariscal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u135	Thank you, President. We are faced with a motion which identifies two problems that this Government has, in our view: firstly, an enormous weakness - it is a weak Government - and secondly, a Government from which we do not know what interests it defends, or what its priorities are. The recent bite on the Spanish territorial waters near my land, in the Canary Islands, has failed to awaken this government from its continued political action to divide the Spaniards, from that political agenda of division; it has failed to awaken them or make Pedro Sánchez understand that he should defend the Canary interests, from the very canaries who voted for him, although it seems that he has forgotten that. I say weakness because the enlargement of the platform to the Canary Islands is clearly a weakness problem. Look, the Moroccan Congress passed this legislation on 22 January. On 24 January, the Spanish Foreign Minister appeared. What was the effect of that visit? For nine days later, on February 4, the Senate approved the same text. It is, of course, a huge loss of credibility in our country. Look at what the Foreign Minister said of the text adopted by the Moroccan Parliament: It provides a precise definition of maritime areas under the sovereignty of the Kingdom of Morocco. What is the effect of the Minister's visit? What did he do in Morocco? Recently, the professor of international law, Araceli Mangas, made a proposal in the newspaper El Mundo, which I share, that ministers should take an accelerated course in vocational training to know what the territory of the State they are going to administer understands, ladies and gentlemen, because it is clear that both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Mr Ábalos do not know what the Spanish territory is. [[applause]] To this end, dialogue, but not as a democratic tool, as a political tool, replaces certainty, legislation, international law, with the word dialogue, in a very clear exercise of permanent assignment. That is the dialogue for the Socialist Government, which is clearly detrimental to the interests of the Canary Islands and the Spanish. What are the priorities of this Government? If Algeria has twice cancelled the visit of the Minister of Foreign Affairs - twice cancelled it - that means that something is happening with Spain that its credibility has been reduced. The common agricultural policy that has been presented to us speaks of a reduction of more than 20% in income for Spanish farmers. What is happening internationally with Spain? That, of course, Pedro Sánchez's only concern is that, the blue bank, remain president of the government. It is his only occupation and concern, at the expense of anything, of the interests of the Canary Islands and even of this Congress itself. Congress is going to change tomorrow, the national sovereignty that resides here, by a clearly unconstitutional table. [[Applauds]] It has even abandoned a principle that seemed to be fundamental to you, that of transparency. Why isn't the meeting here? Why is there a table? What are you hiding? Why isn't the table done transparently? Why isn't the meeting transparent? Why don't you use this house for these kinds of meetings and do it at a table in hiding outside? What do you have to hide? In addition, they have abandoned transparency. With our amendment you have an opportunity to rectify, for the Government to rectify. It is an amendment which says that we must seek a consensus agreement and that we must demand that legislation which is clearly harmful to the interests of the Canary Islands be stopped, as is reflected in the Treaty of Friendship with Morocco, and that a timetable of meetings - a timetable of meetings - be established between the two governments in order to seek that agreement which is truly equitable. Such a requirement for the cessation of legislation must also be made on the understanding that the United Nations recommendations on the claim, of the proposal made by Spain in 2014, should be awaited when there was a Government that was concerned with the interests of the Canary Islands, when there was that Government. Finally, we demand absolute priority in the face of the harmful formulas proposed by the Algerian Government in relation to the territorial waters which clearly lie above the Cabrera National Park and which seriously harm the interests of the Balearic Islands. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Gómez Fernández has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u137	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this last intervention, the Group of the European People's Party has shown its clear interest in not addressing the motions or the points in question; the only objective, as on other occasions, as we are accustomed to, is to incriminate and attack the party of the Government, the Socialist Party and the coalition government. What does Catalonia have to do with this motion? What does the CAP have to do with this motion? [[One honourable Member: For the weakness of Spain!]] No, no. You do not understand that foreign policy is a State policy. I will remind the People's Group of something, to see if it is clear to them. At the 2017 Governing Council, they passed these two bills in Morocco. He ruled the People's Party. What did you do? Nothing. You are not in a position to demand anything at all, since this Government has been proactive, has moved and has made it very clear that it will not allow unilateral movements in this regard, but you are once again not interested in the reality of those two bills which, as you know, I suppose, result in a decree. That is the key to this process. They have made clear to the Minister and this Government that they are not going to allow that unilateral movement. We are supported by the United Nations Sea Convention and international law, and in that regard we will move. What position will the People's Party take? Are you going to support the action of the Government of Spain? Are you going to interpret foreign policy as a State policy on this occasion? Or are you going to continue in the same game as Venezuela, which interests you? Let's see, let's be responsible. I have to attend to the rest of the interventions with great pleasure. I understand that they act from the responsibility, from the conviction and the assurance that this Government, as in everything, will defend the rights and interests of this country, as it cannot be otherwise. We expect a little more groups such as the People's Group, which have ruled Spain and which, by the way, were not characterized by their strength in foreign policy. Non-existence and invisibility were the main activity in foreign policy by the People's Party in government action. [[protests]] From this perspective we have put forward a compromise amendment with the nationalist group comprising four points: to continue to maintain a firm position in defence of the integrity of the land and maritime territory of the Canary Islands, of the waters of Spanish sovereignty; a second point, to continue to treat this matter with Morocco as a priority within the fluid dialogue, but without concessions, not taking into account that movement and that unilateral character which the minister has made clear on different occasions, both in the Commission and in this rostrum; to define that the maritime mediation must be done by agreement between the two States, respecting what he previously said, the convention of the sea and international law, and to continue to promote the process of dialogue established within the United Nations between Morocco and the Frente Polisario, in order to obtain a just, lasting and mutually accepted solution, as well as the spokesman of the nationalist group, who reflected the successive resolutions of the United Nations; and the last point, which we do not want to mention, is that this Congress urges the Government to facilitate the procedures and authorizations of administrative certificates for the Saharian population with Spanish nationality. Commitment, seriousness and rigour of the Government of Spain. Add at once to a proactive, purposeful, action-oriented action, solving problems, moving forward, and put aside already at once the crisp that does not contribute. When they are in government they do not act; when they are in opposition, they criticize. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u139	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. The problem that this motion brought to this House today began when the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Moroccan Parliament gave its unanimous support to two laws that the Government was processing to delimit Morocco's territorial waters. In this way, Morocco was adapting its domestic legislation to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. The plenary of the Moroccan Parliament gave the green light to this intention to expand territorial waters and would then have to take this initiative to the United Nations agencies. There began the problem, and it began for us because in this intention to extend its territorial waters overlapped with the territorial waters of Spain, the Canary Islands, also with those of Portugal and those of Mauritania, and also affecting the waters of Western Sahara. With this decision, Morocco shows that it considers as its own the territorial waters of Western Sahara, a territory over which it exercises control, but which does not belong to national sovereignty. On the one hand, Morocco's intention to extend territorial waters to an area that includes the waters of the Canary Islands and, on the other hand, the use by Morocco of Western Sahara and its waters in a manner that is not in accordance with international law. Once she was appointed minister, Mrs González Laya visited Morocco to meet her counterpart, and she became as she was, without anything, because the position that Spain has right now in the negotiation is a little weak, not to say that the Spanish Government is not knowing how to defend clearly and decisively the interests of the Spaniards, not even in something as basic as our territorial integrity. Western Sahara is one of the few territories in the world that the United Nations recognizes as a subject of the right of self-determination. The Non-Self-Governing Territories have an administering power that is normally the former colonial power. That is why Spain, in the eyes of international law, must ensure the protection of Western Sahara. But Spain is considered disconnected from this obligation since 1976, when it sent a letter to end definitively its presence in the Sahara territory. However, international laws are clear on this point. Although Spain considers that it is already disconnected from that obligation, the United Nations has arguments for maintaining Spain as the administering power of Western Sahara, and it is not an option, it is an obligation. Spain must therefore continue to ensure the well-being and protection of the Saharawi population until the decolonization process is completed. Citizens have always been in favour of the implementation of international law with regard to Western Sahara and have supported the process of decolonization of the United Nations. This parliamentary group already tabled a question on this subject in 2019 and also called for the then Minister Margarita Robles to appear, but no member of the government appeared in Congress to explain this matter. We believe that strict compliance with international laws is necessary, so we cannot give as valid the claims of the Kingdom of Morocco to appropriate the territorial waters of Western Sahara. We hope that the Government will take a more active role and defend the interests of all Spaniards and, in particular, of the Canary Islands, in order to achieve a division of territorial waters according to law and that it will not threaten the current situation of the Canary Islands. We will vote in favour, even accepting this compromise amendment, but we have to say one thing: it shows 'will continue to work', 'will continue to fight', 'will continue to try', and that is not the case. The Socialist Party has not dealt with or worked on these issues. We call on the Socialist Party and the Government of Spain to work on these issues. Canaries cannot go on waiting for the Foreign Minister to solve and take them seriously. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u140	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuet Pujals has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u141	Thank you, President. I am sure it will not be the last time in this legislature that we are talking about Western Sahara, so it is right to start with a compromise proposal that, although limited, allows the House to start walking and start defining itself. We will vote in favour, but that is not enough, for you to know. We will continue to maintain a demanding attitude on this issue. Firstly, we are dealing with a border issue which concerns us. We know the history of Morocco over the past forty years. It has consistently failed, ignored international law and the United Nations, and, therefore, on too many occasions the international community has left the Kingdom of Morocco to do so with respect to Western Sahara. And at this moment the Kingdom of Morocco could be emboldened and believe that it already has the Sahara and that it can go for more things. Therefore, we need a political response that puts things in place. We want to make three things clear. First, that a State Secretary for Social Rights receives a Minister for Social Affairs of the Democratic Saharawi Arab Republic is not an anomaly. What is an anomaly is that the Moroccan Government dictates to us who the Government can and cannot meet, that is an anomaly. Secondly, in this conflict there are two things that are unnegotiable, and we want to make it clear from the zero minute: the first, the right of self-determination of the Saharan people, because it is an obligation of UN Resolution 2072/20. United Nations resolutions do not speak only of a solution to the conflict, they point out the solution to the conflict: a referendum of self-determination of the Saharan people. Let's be clear. We have not been able to put it in the resolution, but it is essential that we remember the mandate of the United Nations: a referendum on self-determination. Thirdly, Western Sahara is a territory in the process of decolonization, a Non-Self-Governing Territory over which Morocco has no sovereignty; it is only an administering Power. Therefore, the natural resources and territory of Western Sahara - let us say it clearly - is not Moroccan. We are not talking about Morocco, we are talking about Western Sahara, whose capital is not Rabat, it is Aaiún. And, therefore, that is also a position that needs to be made clear. Another unnegotiable aspect, namely respect for the human rights of the Saharan people, must also be clarified. Do you know how many Saharan political prisoners there are in Moroccan prisons? This Congress should know, ladies and gentlemen, because it is a political reality. Do you know that by protesting for the independence of Western Sahara in Aaiún he is arrested and tortured in the Moroccan prisons or police stations? Ladies and gentlemen, you should know that. [[Applauds]] This must therefore be discussed with Morocco, and I am convinced that the Minister reminded the Moroccan Government of all these aspects during her recent visit to Rabat. I am convinced that it did, and that should be the position of the Government of the Spanish State. We have an office in El Aaiún called the Depository of Goods. The question is: To the Saharawi children who want to come on holiday to Spain - how many families here have welcomed Saharawi children - are we going to send them to Rabat, 1100 kilometers away, so that they can take their visa or are they going to be able to take their visa to travel in an office of the Government of Spain in El Aaiún? That is the answer we need the minister to give us. And the only answer may be that in El Aaiún these Saharan children have obtained their visa in order to be able to travel. Nothing else, I'll leave it here. Hundreds of thousands of Saharans are watching us, and by them let us shout loudly: Long live the free Saharan! [[Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u142	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Pita Cárdenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. From my land we have always had the perception, when not the conviction, that every time the authoritarian monarchy Alauí makes decisions that weigh - because they always weigh exclusively their own interests - in the Canary Islands we suffer the consequences; they cool down and we take the pneumonia. Only in the time that we have been in this United House We have talked here about the oil explorations carried out by that neighbouring country without minimum guarantees of environmental security, about the insufficient role that the Moroccan kingdom plays in preventing the death in our waters every year hundreds of people seeking to embrace the hope of building a better future and, of course, we have also talked about the violated rights of the brother Saharan people, occupied, repressed, looted by the Alauí State for forty-five years, with the historical complicity - because everything has to be said - of Spain. Anyway, the matter that brings us here today is not new. Let me tell you, Mrs Oramas, what's new to me is to hear you speak in this rostrum of a subject on which your party has given outstanding signs of incompetence. You have been in the government of the Canary Islands for more than a quarter of a century, ruling with the parties that have ruled in the state. It's called incompetence, Mrs. Oramas; it's called incompetence and demagogy, a lot of demagogy. Anyway, everyone knows the goats they keep. I would have liked it if, when we negotiated the statute, you too had your voice broken when we, the United We can, defended the proposal to limit the archipelago waters of the Canary Islands during the reform, because I remind you that your party refused to support this proposal, that, if it had been included, it would have set a real precedent in terms of the adequacy of our island reality - which is what it is about - to what the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which you now quote, dictates. Anyway, we've long since given up asking the Canary Coalition for consistency, because that's like getting milk out of a tuno. Finally, I am going to focus on what we have always advocated from our parliamentary group on the subject that brings us here, which is Canary waters. We would like to urge the Government of Spain to promote the amendment, in effect, of Act No. 44/2010 of 30 December 2010 of the Canary Islands Waters Act, so that, in application of that archipelagic principle contained in the Third Sea Convention, it will assume the total extension of the waters of the Canary Islands, delimiting, on the one hand, the scope of the Canary Islands, on the basis of the calculation of the straight baselines between islands; the demarcation of the exclusive economic zone bordering the Canary Islands under the category of canary waters - the famous 200 miles -; the international recognition of the right to extend that continental shelf - there, where those metals are being sought by the whole world - which are some 350 miles westward, that is, more than 296,000 square kilometres, including the delimitation of the median eastwards between Spain, Morocco and Sahara, supporting a peaceful solution - cannot be otherwise - and definitively including the right to decide freely the future of the excolony. We would also like to urge the Government of Spain to recognize at the state level the territorial sea, the contiguous zone of the Canary waters, its exclusive economic zone and the continental shelf within what are the archipelago waters of the Canary Islands, as set out in the definition of the archipelagic principle of the III Sea Convention and as set out in Articles 148.2, 149.3 and 150.2 of our Constitution. We would also like the Government of Spain to ensure the participation of the autonomous community in the processes of negotiation and elaboration of international treaties and conventions, especially those relating to matters of interest to the archipelago, especially those relating to what we have here today, our geographical situation and access to our maritime area, without prejudice - it was only lacking - to what is established by European state legislation and in a coordinated way - it cannot be otherwise - to the Government of the State. In any case, we are convinced that the Government is taking those firm steps that the Socialist spokesman was talking about to take a negotiated and dialogueal exit to this conflict and that under no circumstances will it allow the Kingdom of Morocco to take advantage of a maritime space that does not belong exclusively to it by means of the events accomplished or the coups d'état. Defending the truth from our land - I conclude, President - and thereby the general interest of the State, alongside international law and from deep democratic convictions, is not only worth it, but it is our duty, as legitimate representatives of the Canarian people. Welcome to it, Mrs. Oramas. It's never too late if the bliss is good. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pita. Mrs Oramas, for the purpose of accepting amendments, do I understand that they are preparing a compromise?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u145	It's already handed over to the Bureau's lawyers.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u146	Thank you so much. Is that what you're talking about? OF PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO GUARANTEE THE COMPLETION OF CRIMINAL LEGISLATION IN CATALUNE AND OTHER POSSIBLE TERRITORIES OF SPAIN IN WHICH, THROUGH A FRAUDULENT EXERCISE OF TRANSFER COMPETITION, THE AUTONOMIC ADMINISTRATION SHALL FRAUDULENTLY APPLY THAT LEGISLATION TO AVOID THE EFFECTIVENESS OF CONDENATORIAL JUDGMENTS AND ENCOVERED INDULTS. [[File number 173/00004]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u147	We continue with the motion of urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures that the Government is going to take to ensure compliance with prison legislation in Catalonia and other possible territories of Spain where, by fraudulent exercise of transferred jurisdiction, the Autonomous Administration fraudulently enforces such legislation in order to avoid the effectiveness of convictions and obtain covert pardons. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u148	Thank you very much, Madam President. Catalonia, the Autonomous Community of Catalonia is the only community that has transferred prison competence, and that, for the time being and as far as coups are concerned, has meant that five out of every nine prisoners who have been convicted by the Supreme Court and who are in the second degree have already been subject to this exceptional measure of Article 100.2 of the Prison Rules, a measure which, by the way, has benefited only 10% of prisoners in prisons within the Autonomous Community of Catalonia. This procedure, which is an exceptional and arbitrary procedure, has, de facto, become the door to impunity, i.e. those sentenced for nine to thirteen years for sedition offences, in competition with crimes of embezzlement and disobedience, are succeeding in getting angry, are actually succeeding in avoiding, in reality, in a semi-freedom, the convictions of the Supreme Court. The other day from this very rostrum we denounced the Government because what was behind it was nothing but a covert pardon. Soon we are told that there are no penalties, that there are no measures on penalties of a collective nature. We already know that they are going to be implemented individually, as, by the way, they have already done with terrorist prisoners: individually, but all the same; little by little, but all on the street. What has happened in the Basque Country, where the PSOE has already paid a price, one more, for getting the PNV to vote in favour of the investiture and abstention of Bildu's pro-terrestrial friends, so that they were given prison competition? What are you looking for? The same is true of the coup in Catalonia: a covert amnesty, a widespread pardon, but also of individual application. Of these terrorists, who have caused more than a thousand murders, forced exiles, injuries, damage of all kinds, it turns out that, since the Socialist Party arrived in Moncloa, 28 of the 221 prisoners have already benefited from moving from the first to the second level of prison and 31 have been brought closer to Catalan prisons. You've had a good record since you arrived in the Moncloa. That is why we in this parliamentary group consider it essential to request and to ensure that the prison competition that was wrongly handed over to a coup generality is returned to the State. [[Applauds]] Secondly, that this competition should not be transferred to the Basque Country, because it will do exactly the same; they no longer deceive anyone, it is their only purpose. Thirdly, do not change that policy of dispersal of older prisoners which has produced such good results. Repealing this arbitrary and exceptional article 100.2 of the Prison Rules, because, when we are told that the Constitution states that the penalties will tend to be reinstated, it will be with which they can be reinstated, but the prison benefits cannot consist of an arbitrary and exceptional procedure, which in the end remains in the hands of the treatment boards. And although we are told that it can be appealed by the Office of the Prosecutor, we have already seen, when the Office of the Prosecutor is under the control of the Government, what happens to those appeals; and, if not, let us prepare ourselves for the next appeals that Mrs Delgado's order will receive. Effective enforcement of sentences against thugs and terrorists. It is truly incredible that in a rule of law we have to be calling for the effective execution of sentences handed down against terrorists and those who have taken a coup d'état from the Catalan institution. And because we request from this group that the prison jurisdiction be returned to the General Administration of the State, it is time to also ask that, once and for all, these officials, loyal officials to the State, our prison officials have their own status in which they are guaranteed fair remuneration, adequate training, recognition of the principle of agents of authority, personal and collective means of defence, and completion of their limited staff, aged and unable to meet basic needs. [[Applauds]] In short, this motion resulting from urgent interpellation seeks nothing but to ensure that the State, national sovereignty, the capacity to combat crime, against the most serious crimes that may occur in a democracy, in a rule of law, in a nation: crimes of terrorism, crimes of coups d'état, sedition, rebellion, against the Constitution, against the constitutional order and against the sentences of the courts. In short, it is to put a stop to it and to recover part of the lost land, which, out of cowardice or omission, has not been done so far. And progress that we are not going to accept the amendment that the People's Party has tabled, for two obvious reasons: the first, because it greatly exceeds - even though we would accept in a new amendment - the raison d'être of our own amendment - it exceeds it to such an extent that it makes it unrecognizable - but, above all, because it seems to us to be an act of parliamentary hypocrisy on the part of those who for eight years have been in the Government of the nation and not one of those measures that they are proposing carried out. We have come to fulfill those promises that are made. And I hope we can do it soon by sitting on the blue bench. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u149	Thank you very much, Mr Ortega. In defence of the amendment made by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs De Luna Tobarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u150	President, ladies and gentlemen, from the Group of the European People's Party we call on the Government to recover the powers in prison transferred to Catalonia for the fraudulent use that has been made continuously since the Generalitat. Article 100.2 of the Prison Regulation - basic legislation for all of Spain - has been developed in Catalonia by a series of circulars and instructions in which the content of the said article has been exceeded and in which the need to meet a number of requirements that are applicable to the rest of the Spanish territory has been mocked. These requirements, as I say, have been exceeded in order to be able to access prison benefits similar to those established for the third degree. We watch every day on television the release from prison of convicted coupsmen - as the Justice Counsellor said: I want them out - politicians convicted of very serious crimes that, far from expressing regret, proudly say they would do it again. Mr. Sanchez, are you going to allow them to strike again? Will you consent to the further deepening of the serious fracture of coexistence that has caused in Catalonia, the insecurity and fear that have generated in the Catalan population, which with anguish contemplates not only the helplessness of the Government of Spain and its president, but also the connivance with the coupsmen, who are given the virtuality of legitimate interlocutors of you to the Government of Spain and those with whom they meet tomorrow? I would like to say, Mr Sánchez, that these convicts are a grave danger to the rule of law and to coexistence. The Catalan society, unfortunately, is divided into two, a division that is more palpable every day on the street, in the jobs and in the families. This tragic situation is one which the condemned and the Government of the Generalitat itself continue to favour and feed, a Government of the Generalitat whose front they have a disqualified for justice who continues to believe to be president and to whom Mr Sánchez gives him privileged and servile treatment. Every day we see how they are granting a kind of almost hidden pardons that allows them to get out of jail under the excuse of family care or, as we have known in the case of Mr Forn, for an advisory work in a media group, a media group that favors a coup player; media political interests. What do you get in return? It is a democratic anomaly that the Justice Adviser is responsible for the prison policy and administration that applies to her chief of staff, to the person to whom the post is owed. Hence the deferential treatment and application of prison privileges; and I say privileges, not benefits. [[Rumors]] This unequal treatment of the rest of the prisoners also implies over-stressing pressure on prison officials, which occurs in two directions: on the one hand, by those responsible for the centre, who instruct officials to take a look at schedules and be much more condescending and permissive to the seditious. An example is the complaint of an official to whom, by denouncing the harassment of his bosses, the Generalitat has opened a disciplinary file. The other pressure comes from the inmates themselves, who see that they do not have the same living conditions within the centre or, of course, departures abroad to care for family members; maintaining discipline and order in these prisons makes them much harder than usual in a prison. In the People's Party we advocate regaining the powers of the prison administration, as well as amending the Penal Code to introduce the full enforcement of sentences for those convicted of rebellion and sedition. We want to recover the crime of improper rebellion and amend the Party Financing Act so that those who have leaders convicted of sedition or rebellion cannot receive public funds. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u151	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u152	The People's Party has also led the demand for recognition of prison officials as agents of authority through a bill in September 2019 and has urged the Government to improve professional conditions and increase their salaries. We want the state to have powers in prison matters. That is why we cannot accept the possible transfer to the Basque Country as a payment to the government party for the support of Sánchez's investiture. We are in favour of the policy of dispersal of ETA prisoners and we want to amend the Prison Law so that access to the new grade requires not only reneging on violence, but effective collaboration on the hundreds of crimes that still remain to be clarified by the murderous ETA gang. The People's Party will be and has always been at the side of the victims of terrorism. Finally, I would like to point out that we have tabled some amendments, which Mr Smith has already said he will not accept. We regret that, because they were amendments that greatly improved the text, apart from completing it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u153	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Luna. Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u154	Good afternoon. We intervene because we think it appropriate to talk about prison legislation and about enforcement, about compliance with this legislation. We are concerned about the implementation of the Istanbul Convention and we are concerned about the application of human rights standards in Catalan prisons and also in Spanish prisons. In fact, just over a week ago, the Council of Europe published a report denouncing ill-treatment in Catalan prisons and police stations - literally leo -. It denounced that, despite not being widespread, they are ill-treatment and situations that human rights entities have been denouncing for ten years and, in addition, it recommended that the Catalan and Spanish authorities put an end to ill-treatment. And I speak of Catalans and Spanish because the Committee for the Prevention of Torture also denounced bad practices in Spanish prisons. He spoke in a report, specifically, of tying prisoners with ropes and beating them. Therefore, as you see, this is not just a question of Catalans and the Catalan prison system, but of the prison model and impunity that officials often have within prisons. And let me be clear: I am not talking about all the officials, but I am talking about those cases in which they are mistreated. In fact, we also wanted to remind Professor Iñaki Rivera of the Observatory of the Criminal System i the Human Rights, who has up to four complaints for insults and slanders of prison officials' unions to explain - and I read literally, I say this in case they are tempted to have him removed from the Journal of Sessions, because they are literal statements - that there are cases of torture in Catalan prisons. We suspect that you do not want to talk about human rights. We suspect that you continue the political persecution of the independence movement. And let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, that today we have started the day by going to the courts to accompany our colleague Eulàlia Reguant, prosecuted for exercising the legitimate right to conscientious objection and refusing to answer them in the Supreme Court's trial. That the extreme right is a particular accusation in a political trial against the Catalan independence movement should worry us, and more should worry us that the Attorney General's Office, the Attorney General's Office, would end up buying his thesis. We ended - and we went back to you - with some verses from Appeles Mestres, some verses that Jordi Cuixart said in the trial, some verses that we want to dedicate to the anti-fascist movement that fights you and many others on the street, in institutions and in the courts. [[Applauds]] 'You won't pass! And if you pass by / when we're all gone, / you know from envelopes to which price / a town is worthy and free. / Me, it won't be! For more than fire, you won't pass!' [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u155	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u156	From the seat, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, your journey towards the past is taking a galloping pace. [[Protests.-Several Members: Hala!]] If it were for you, mediated by the legislature I calculate that we could already enter the Middle Ages, perfectly. [[Laughter]] They plan to eliminate transfers, not make those that by law should already be transferred, that is, what they propose is to violate the laws and advocate for maintaining policies of cruelty and revenge. [[Protests]] You are installed in hatred, you are the example of ideological cohesion that is achieved by agitating and generating hatred. Because it's the only thing they know how to do, as they're proving in this Chamber. They are annoyed by the existence of the Basque people, they are annoyed by the identity of the Catalan people, they are annoyed by the left, they are annoyed by the popular classes, the diversity and they attack any social and cultural advances. [[protests.-Several Members: No!]] [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, please, a little silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u158	They're in the continuous escalation of the sin-ration... [[Mr. Sánchez del Real: If not, shut up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Mr. Sánchez del Real, please, I'm asking for silence. [[Pause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u160	They are in the continuous escalation of sin, but we will continue to bet on solutions, also for all the people retaliated, both in Catalonia and in our country. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u161	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Ortega Smith has done, I too will go point by point. In the first, it calls for the recovery of the prison competition transferred to the Catalan Autonomous Administration. But how do you recover Catalan prison competition? For that to happen, the status of autonomy must be changed, because this House does not have the capacity to remove that competence, it does not have that capacity per se. It is an organic law voted in referendum, which is in force, and it is a transfer that has occurred. So, there's no turning back. Secondly, do not transfer prison competition to the Basque Autonomous Administration. Oh, I mean, break the law. The great defenders of the law in front of those who want to break it and load everything say that the law is not enforced. Why? No more reason, because they cannot deny that this competence is in the Statute of Guernica, even before the adoption of the Catalan Statute. Do not change the prison policy of dispersion. We don't agree, of course. To begin with - bearing in mind that this policy had to have ended many years ago - how can that be said when there is no ETA, when it has already disappeared as an organization, when it is rather a policy that it does not so much humanize for prisoners but for all their families, who have to constantly travel to visit them. [[Applauds]] Yeah, that's right. In addition, prison policy must ensure that it is implemented as close as possible to where it resides. Look, those prison benefits they say they've received, and so on... Well, they've received them lately because ETA didn't even let them ask for them and, lately, some are getting close to them but they're still very few. We advocate that this may happen, because it is also in accordance with the law. You say: Repeal 100.2 of the prison regulations. No, on the contrary, I believe that the open regime is an important measure. In the case you are talking about, which is the Catalan case, it is very well implemented because what needs to be sought are political solutions. They're people who haven't stolen, they haven't scammed, they haven't killed. [[Rumors]] No, they are people who have a political ideology and have not imposed it on anyone by force. [[Applauds]] All they wanted was to deposit a ballot and it seems to me, I think, that 100.2... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u164	And listen, it's not me, it'll be the treatment boards!, and in your case if you appeal, the prison watch judge, which is also regulated by law! Because, of course, you're fine with the sentence, but then Mr. Ortega Smith is fine with it. He said it in the interpellation: In the sentence they have been condemned. But then he said, "What a whirlwind, they have not been sentenced for rebellion." And what a birria, the Supreme Court does not want to apply 36.2 of the Penal Code to make that until 50% of the sentence is passed they cannot access the third degree. No, the Supreme Court did not want to do so, and I suppose the Supreme Court also had its reasons because it is the same one that condemned these people. On the other hand, ensure the effective and effective enforcement of sentences. Of course, the sentences are being served but there are also prison benefits, there is also a whole set of regulations that apply to everyone, to everyone and that cannot be jumped. What you want to do is: well yes, this says the law, but I want it to be that until the end, or even if you don't come out, better, life imprisonment. That's what you're trying to do. They are not thinking of a prison policy or the end of sentences, etc. No, until they end up rotting there in prison, even though the law allows for a number of prison benefits. Well, that doesn't make sense, it's going against the law in the end. By the way, the seventh is the world, because if they ask for the elimination of Catalan competition in prisons then they say that it equals the officials with those of the Catalan Administration. If there are no officials from the Catalan Administration, what do you want them to match? [[Applauds]] Your problem - and with this I conclude, Madam President - your problem is that those who do not accept the legal order are you, it is you, Mr Ortega Smith, that is VOX. You do not accept the legal order and ask it not to be complied with; you want to skip it and, according to your language, those who want to skip the legal order are coups, so, ergo, you are coups. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u165	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u166	Thank you, President. We are waiting to see what is left of the acceptance of the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, which we think are very timely, to the VOX motion, and it would be good if they were accepted because they substantially improved the proposal. But the interesting thing today is that the Government is being asked in this motion what the Government is going to do to prevent a government plan; that is, the plan to pardon in A or B politicians who tried to strike a coup in Catalonia recently. All Spaniards know the crimes that these politicians have committed and, Mr Esteban, the one of embezzlement is also among those crimes, it is not an ideological issue; apart from sedition and all that, stealing if they have stolen, that is, stealing if they have stolen. What they use it for is another, even worse, issue. But in addition to direct crimes, these gentlemen are indirectly responsible for many other things that have happened. Look, they've pointed out to the children of civilian guards in the schools as a result of these gentlemen, to children. They surrounded a soldier who was in his car in Figueras and broke his rear-view mirror and moon. They have repeatedly attacked the business of relatives of non-independence politicians. They've stuck posters on the doors of non-nationalist journalists' homes. They have harassed judges and their families, pointing out their homes - there is an exodus of judges by the way -. There are secessionist politicians taking photos of establishments that serve in Spanish and point them out on the networks. There are members of associations pointing to workers from companies working in Spanish. They have beaten a child for carrying the flag of Spain; here they are even, they have beaten a girl also for carrying the flag of Spain. They have attacked, on dozens of occasions, the headquarters of non-nationalist political parties. They called the winner of the elections in Catalonia a whore's daughter, an evil-born and a fascist while walking with her family on the street. They call the Andalusians, extremists and Spaniards of other regions vague and kept on public television and parliamentary representation bodies. They've also said our kids snort glue. They have driven the Civil Guard and the National Police out of hotels and then stoned them in the streets. They have closed an autonomous parliament to silence the opposition. There have been aggressive committees patrolling the streets, scaring the population, thrown out by the president of the Catalan government. Teachers have taken children - again children - to Sant Jordi to sing insults at the door of the Civil Guard barracks. They've been making threats, on behalf of Terra Lliure, at the door of a garage of a non-nationalist journalist. They sent the skeleton of their dead grandfather, along with an anonymous one, to the former president of an anti-secession association. They have persecuted and attacked a student association that fights for the unity and freedom of the Spaniards. They've attacked a camp site that hosted civilian guards and national police...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u167	Mr. Díaz, you have more than half of the intervention, could you focus on the issue, please? [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u168	This is a direct consequence, Madam President, of what I am saying. But I'm done. An actor, lined with public money, has called the winner of the elections in Catalonia a bitch. They have cut down the trees from the home of a renowned actor and theatre director and planted the trees on the wall, as a result, Madam President, of the actions of these criminals. They have surrounded a non-nationalist politician who gave flowers and books in Sant Jordi. Articles by a secessionist leader have appeared about the Catalan race and, a little while ago, about native Catalans. They've broken court sentences in front of the cameras. They have taken to Catalan public television a convicted terrorist to talk about the public disappearance of the president of the main party who was opposed to independence in Catalonia. They have stolen public money for social purposes for the Third World to finance this coup d'état. They have been spying on children - again on children - to see what language they spoke. Yesterday they burned the car of a politician too, an act that we strongly condemn. I could go on for a long time. I know that Pedro Sánchez is a utilitarian for whom the end justifies the means - the end is the Moncloa and the means are all of us and all of the Spaniards - but I am addressing all the socialists who are sitting here: Is there anything going on when they see the president who plans to benefit those responsible for all of this that I have said to them? A salary is not valid for all principles, and if it is not valid for them, they were slogans for getting a job. Do something because, on your behalf, the truth has been annihilated. You all defended in campaign that you would promote the crime of convening an illegal referendum, that you would not bargain with independenceists and that you would not make a government with Podemos. Are you guys seeing each other? Can you all take a quiet walk down the street after promising all of you that in campaign? Are you all right? If you are calm, give yourself the East Men in black flash. If you shut up, you're not socialists. You are hollow acronyms whose only objective is a chair, a salary and the total absence of principles - I conclude, President - because it is impossible to be socialist and give preferential treatment to those who defend privilege, political harassment, racial superiority and want to break solidarity among citizens. Spain is our system of rights and freedoms and you are today the assistants of those who want to end it. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u169	Thank you, Mr. Díaz. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been left very high; now to see what I say to overcome all these things that we have just heard. The truth is that the prison issue is too serious to dispatch it in these words of exabruption that are being heard in this House. Catalonia has been in prison for thirty-six years; the thirteen Catalan prisons currently hold a population of about 8000 inmates between prisoners and prisoners. Know that our prison model is a reference model in Europe, not only in Spain but in Europe. We have a rate of recidivism much lower than the Spanish average, much lower than the European average, and one, as I said, of the lowest in Europe, but all this does not matter to you, the prison situation is not what brings you here. In fact, what they care about is coming each one to give their rally in this Cainite competition that they have between the right. I was saying that you don't care about this because you certainly feel that the condemnation of Catalan political prisoners is too weak. You asked for seventy-eight years in prison, and it must seem to you that it's almost like a shambles what you've imposed on them. Well, let me tell you three things. The first is that, as much as they repeat it, their role, gentlemen of VOX, in the trial as a popular accusation was absolutely irrelevant, it led to nothing. The second, derived from the first, is that the last coup d'état that took place in Spain was thirty-nine years and two days ago - there are marks left here - by a lieutenant colonel who I fear very much that if he re-entered the Chamber he would receive a loud applause from a good part of the Chamber. Do not speak, therefore, more of a coup d'état because even the Supreme Court has not supported this thesis. And the third, gentlemen of the PP, is that there are no prison benefits for Catalan political prisoners, among other things because among prison officials there are also some among the 4.24% of Catalans who vote for the People's Party. There's a prison officer in there, too, huh? And also know that the seven Prison Surveillance Courts in Catalonia resolve around 5000 cases at the end of the year. Therefore, everything, as you well know - to ignore you cannot - is subject to the control of the courts. There are no prison benefits. They also know that the measures of 100.2 and all those provided for in prison legislation - state, not autonomous, legislation and prison regulations - are part of compliance, but they also know that our political prisoners are not going to carry out their sentences in full. They will not comply with them because I hope that this House will have the courage to deal politically with what should never have come out of politics and therefore have the courage to repeal the crime of sedition. It does not exist in Germany; riots with pre-ordered violence in France and Italy are punished with one year's imprisonment and not with these penalties imposed by this elastic type and so little concrete that it is the crime of sedition in Spain. Misappropriation is also not a crime in other parts of Europe. Misappropriation is corruption, without appropriation is not a crime in most European countries. Therefore, either this House has the courage to repeal those two crimes that have led us to a situation that we should never have come to because we did not get out of politics or the European Court of Human Rights will be the one to quash those convictions. This has been advanced not only by the independenceists who are partial, but also by former magistrate López Guerra in a recent article that is not suspected of being independenceist, where he has already warned that the European Court of Human Rights will no doubt annul those convictions. I'm afraid all these thoughts I'm giving you won't do you any good. You will continue with your Cainite struggle to dispute the space of the right. By the way, they are very difficult because from the turn towards the center that the PP has made in the last forty-eight hours, towards the center of the apothecary, and after those proclamations that we have just made Citizens, it is very difficult to distinguish between the three formations. Anyway, I thank you for your intervention because every time you make interventions like this, tone-up, there are a thousand more independenceists in Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u171	Thank you, Mr. Alonso-Cuevillas. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u172	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Ortega Smith, be careful because if you show up for Gibraltar, the one who ends up in jail is going to be you. [[Applauds]] I hate fascism so much! But what is worrying is not the hatred of the fifty-two Members who represent him here today. What is truly worrying is the more than three and a half million Spaniards who have voted for this hatred, for hatred abroad, for the hatred of women liberated from patriarchy, for the hatred of homosexuals, bisexuals and transsexuals, for the hatred of trade unionists and those who fight for their social rights, for the hatred of those who think and feel differently. [[protests]] More than three and a half million people in Spain have voted for a black future, hatred and resentment, cuts in freedoms, persecution and repression. More than three and a half million people have voted for a Francoist Spain. [[Protests]] It is no accident, because from the political, police, judicial and media power it has been years adhering to the culture broth where this fascism grows, lying about the situation in Catalonia, applauding the 'A for them', decorating the savages who beat the peaceful population, legitimizing unjust prison sentences, Mr Ortega Smith, allowing VOX to exercise a particular charge against the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, persecuting Valtónyc, Cassandra, César Strawberry, Willy Toledo, puppeteers, with the xenophobia of receiving migrants with concertinas, of legitimizing their imprisonment in inhumane prisons called CIE, of keeping the murderers of fifteen people in Tarajal unpunished. [[applause]] And here we have that fascism today showing us his hate speech. To stop it depends not only on voting against its proposals, but on getting it out of the courts, the army and, above all, the state's sewers. [[Applauds]] You will see if you want to build a democratic Spain of the 21st century that solves your problems through dialogue and ballot boxes or if you prefer to return to Spain of Franco and Millán Astray. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Bassa. Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u174	President, ladies and gentlemen. 'No one really knows what a nation is like until they've been in one of their prisons.' That was said by President Mandela, who spent twenty-seven years in his country's prisons. Today we are talking about that, about that world of bars that criminal lawyers know very well but that many citizens know little. You, Mr Smith, are a lawyer and you know perfectly well, although you will not recognize it - you did not recognize it in your speech - that if Catalan prisoners are in Catalonia it is because it is where they have to be; it is because these judges have allowed it that their partners said they controlled as puppets. And if you now go to work, as Mr Cuixart, it is not for any conspiracy of that government that you say coup, it is not a Jewish-masonic conspiracy - now it seems to me that you call it fasciocommunist - it is because it is provided for in Article 100.2, because the Board of Treatment, not some politicians, have decided so and because surely the Board of Treatment considers that Mr Cuixart, for example, is an honest businessman, who conducts his business legally, and not like other professionals who sign his work projects without a licence. [[Applauds]] That you today want to take away Catalonia's competition in prisons is normal. If it were for you, there would be no autonomous communities and would put elected civilian governors in their place. I am concerned, the People's and Citizens' Party, that you want to delete the article that guarantees the rights of inmates, not only independenceists but all inmates, to a treatment such as that provided for in article 25 of the Constitution and in international treaties. It's normal, because surely you feel more comfortable with what was called Franco's very brother-in-law, Serrano Suñer, reverse justice or what Trump defends, life imprisonment, rather than Mandela's compassionate justice, which surely for you is a terrorist. That's why you for those free independenceists were asking for almost 80 years, as if you were serial killers, and that's why you also want your family members to have to travel hundreds of miles, punish them as well. That offends the democratic conscience. But if that doesn't work for you, think about it from your Christian morality: prove that the Bible oath you made in this Congress serves more than to say, "Long live Spain!" [[Applauds]] The prison debate is a sensitive, complex debate. Here it has been a recurring debate; in fact, the first debate that was held here was precisely that, that of the Prison Law, and there was a consensus of all parties, also of the right. You now want to break that consensus, which wanted to leave behind the prisons, which had been spaces of lawlessness, torture, murder, to be spaces of second chance. You say that the problem is the full enforcement of sentences, which is not done. That is not the problem, Mr Smith, the problem is not that Article 100.2 applies, the problem is that little applies. And when you say the full fulfillment of the penalties, you say it for others, not for you or your partners, not for your associates. Then shut up. They call when Mario Conde stepped on the street in the third year, after a twenty-year sentence. They shut up when the 23rd-F, the thugs, their friends, came out after a few years, when Armada was sentenced to thirty years and instead came out at five years. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, your punitive crusade is a genuine exercise of cynicism. It is a huge cynicism when you are shocked by the permissions granted to Cuixart by the judge and, instead, silence by the permissions of Urdangarin or Rat. [[Applauds]] The difference between you and us, Mr Smith, is that we do defend that Urdangarin or his prisoners, the corrupt prisoners of his partners, deserve to leave if the law so decides. The difference between you and us is that you, the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, demanded Zaplana's release, but instead opposed Forn's release. Is leukemia worse than tuberculosis? I am not a doctor and I don't know, but we defend that the same humanity deserves your prisoners, the corrupt, the ones who have stolen from everyone, from all the citizens, as the rest of the prisoners. Gentlemen of VOX, the law must be the same for everyone, it's called Cuixart or it's called Urdangarin. I'm done, President. You have brought to this plenary the debate on prisons, and I wanted to end as I started, with Mandela. In his proposals, there is no one that is viable or sincere. You have spoken before the improvements in workers' working conditions, but that is not in your proposals.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u175	Mr. Asens, you'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u176	Your proposals, like you, are pre-constitutional, and that is why we will vote no. We will vote that not because, as Mandela said, 'a nation should not be judged by how it treats its citizens in a better position, but by how it treats those who have little or nothing', by how it treats those in jail. Those are the ones that have to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u177	Mr. Asens, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u178	I'm done. Gentlemen of VOX, get out of your mental prisons, the jails of hatred and revenge that, as Mandela said, are the worst possible jails. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u179	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Ortega Smith, you're not going to win in the congressional rostrum what you lost in the courts. [[Applauds]] The truth, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, is that when I read your motion I was tempted to present you with an amendment to the whole of the Spanish Constitution, because it is clear that you know the numbers, you repeat them a lot, but you do not know their content. They often use numbers in their discussions, but do not use content. You, gentlemen of VOX, come to this Chamber full of fear and grudge, and share words of hatred and revenge. The law is incompatible with revenge. The law serves to protect citizens, to protect society, not to settle accounts between citizens, which is what you want. [[Applauds]] The law is incompatible with the dialectics of hatred and revenge. Gentlemen of VOX, do you feel nostalgia from other times where judges, prosecutors, police officers, prison officials, were at the command of the government? His name was Francoism. That which you would like me to return and are unable to condemn; that which the Constitution eliminated. The Constitution is not the law of heel. The Constitution preserves the separation of powers. By the way, the group of prison officials neither prevaricates nor tortures. [[Applauds]] They come here and present to us a modern-day Jewish conspiracy where the conspirators are the Supreme Court, the treatment boards, the Prosecutor's Office, prison officials, the prison guard judge, all against you. Even, they claim that Judge Marchena made an author's judgment, Mr Ortega said, obeying Sanchez. You lie and offend the Supreme Court, the judges, the prosecutors, the prison officials and all the Spaniards for good. [[Applauds]] Do you really believe that the Constitution has not changed anything? Do you really believe that the Spaniards were free under Franco's dictatorship and have lost their freedom with the democratic Constitution? Moreover, they are able to think that with Franco the Spaniards were free and now democracy limits their freedom, their freedom to be sexists, their freedom to be xenophobic, their freedom to be homophobic, their freedom to refuse to die without suffering, their freedom to lie! The voracious black poison of his furious lies! [[Applauds]] Because it was under the PP governments when they approached the prisoners - and I am not going to quote here statements by Mr Iturgaiz reminding us of the sacrifices that had to be made for the sake of peace?; because it was under the PP government when two illegal referendums were held; because it was under a PP government when an attempt was made to repeal the Constitution and the Statute. Yes, your former fellow militiamen and your now government allies, gentlemen of VOX. You, gentlemen of VOX, came to define Catalonia the other day, in the presence of the minister, as hostile territory. But how can you say that part of Spain is hostile? Catalonia is not hostile, and here I tell you that Catalonia is Spain, it is not hostile territory. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And Catalan prisons are Spanish prisons, to see if they understand it, says the Constitution and the statute of autonomy. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] See if you understand, the laws are to comply with them; so are you. And if they have not understood what the Constitution says in its Title VIII on autonomy, it is because they are not constitutionalists. They are what they are: nostalgic of the past; nostalgic of Franco. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u181	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u182	I understand that Mr Ortega is angry with the legal revolt given him by the Supreme Court, just as the convicted persons are angry. Prisoners are in prisons in Catalonia, which are Spanish, with the consent of the Supreme Court. There is no judeomasonic conspiracy of judges, prosecutors, officials and government against you. It is easier: it is the social and democratic state of law; it is the Spanish Constitution that is against their desire to return to the past. Franco won't come back, we buried him by the Spaniards with our vows. [[Applauds]] Freedom is not to be afraid and most Spaniards feel free from you, the Francoist right. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, some of whom have stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u183	Thank you, Mr Zaragoza. Mr Ortega Smith-Molina, I understand that the motion will be voted on in your terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u184	That's right, yes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u185	Thank you very much. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. First of all, we vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is an organic reform of Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 plus 3 telematics votes, 339; 195 plus 3 telematics votes, 198; 134; abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u187	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u188	We shall proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the course of the debate. No bill proposed by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on measures to strengthen protocols for prevention, detection and action in situations of abuse, assault and sexual exploitation, such as those that have taken place continuously in guardianship centres under the Majorca Council, and on the actions carried out by the State Security Forces and Bodies concerning the alleged sexual assault committed by several young people on a minor in Palma in the early morning of 24 and 25 December 2019. Voted in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group [[Mr. Martínez Oblanca]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 145 against, 190 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u189	The non-legislative proposal is rejected. Is that what you're talking about? THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, ON PENSIONS. [[File number 162/000066]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u190	No bill proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Euskal Herria Bildu on pensions. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 24 against, 147 abstentions, 167.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u191	The non-legislative proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u192	We continue with the votes on the motions following urgent appeals. Motion for an urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro, on the measures to be taken by the Government in view of Morocco's delimitation of its maritime border affecting the Canary Islands and Western Sahara. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 331.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u193	The motion was therefore adopted unanimously. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES WHICH THE GOVERNMENT IS GOING TO TAKE TO ENSURE THE COMPLIANCE OF CRIMINARY LEGISLATION IN CATALUNE AND OTHER POSSIBLE TERRITORIES OF SPAIN IN WHICH, THROUGH A FRAUDULENT EXERCISE OF TRANSFER COMPETITION, THE AUTONOMIC ADMINISTRATION SHALL FRAUDULENTLY APPLY THAT LEGISLATION TO AVOID THE EFFECTIVENESS OF CONDENATORIAL JUDGMENTS AND ENCOVERED INDULTS. [[File number 173/00004]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u194	Motion for an urgent appeal by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures that the Government is going to take to ensure compliance with prison legislation in Catalonia and other possible Spanish territories where, by fraudulent exercise of transferred jurisdiction, the Autonomous Authority fraudulently enforces such legislation in order to avoid the effectiveness of convictions and obtain covert pardons. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour 145 against 192; abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-25-CD200225.u195	The motion was therefore rejected. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and twenty minutes of the night.
