ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Titles I and II We began the debate on the opinion of the draft Law on General State Budgets for 2021. We begin with the joint debate on Titles I and II. In defence of the amendments, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u2	Good afternoon. I support the amendment tabled by the Canary Islands Coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, I ask you to remain silent. Thank you very much. Mrs. Muñoz, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u4	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone, ladies and gentlemen. The time has come; after two years we are voting again on a budget for Spain in this House. Budgets that should have been budgets of national salvation, that should have laid the foundations for recovery and that should have been the state response to the worst crisis we recall. However, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and Minister Montero present us with accounts that are actually born obsolete. They are based on outdated macroeconomic data, have unrealistic revenues that are considered overly optimistic by all national and international bodies, and are worth billions of European aid that has not even been approved yet. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, the Spanish people need good news - yes, it is true - but we also need a realistic response to the exit from this crisis, a country response. And these accounts are neither realistic nor a country response. And if not, ask the partners who have chosen, ask Bildu or Esquerra why they decide to support these budgets when they themselves have said that they care about our country, this country. If these budgets were really what Spain needs, I can assure - I play both hands - that neither Bildu nor Esquerra would be in this final photo. A photo that was not the only one possible, you know it very well, and also, thanks to Citizens, you already know all of Spain, but there you have your Christmas postcard, the Socialist Christmas postcard next to Bildu and Esquerra. They will never be able to say that they had no alternative, because in their hand was the final decision, and it was the Socialist Party, their party, together with its partner in government, that voted against all of the Citizens' amendments, minus one. But you know what, ladies and gentlemen? That in the face of the discouragement that could cause us to see how you pull this opportunity to build a better country, in Citizens we are very proud of what we have achieved so far, because we have shown that when you work, even in the most hostile circumstances - which is a government like yours, which we do not like - you get results and good things for the Spaniards, because simply by negotiating not to present the eighth amendment to the whole we stop tax increases loaded with ideology, tax increases to the middle working class worth 5 billion euros. Because citizens, working, has also managed to get a single health card implemented throughout Spain. Because Citizens, negotiating what we have in the legislature, have managed to get PP and PSOE to jointly support an independent audit on the management of the pandemic. And now I address you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. Even with a government of PSOE and Podemos, that we do not like - I have already said - and that we try not to form with that way 221, you can get useful measures if you want and if you work, because it is our obligation, because for that they pay us. They don't pay us to scream or tweet or make videos, nor to beat up seats while hundreds of people die a day. We don't come to get jealous and applaud ourselves, here we come to work. And speaking of working, I do not know whether your ladies and gentlemen from VOX are going to intervene in these debates and, if they do, I do not know what amendments they are going to discuss, because they have not tabled a single one. I would like you to explain to all the Spaniards how, thanks to their absence, the Government dropped amendments with the votes that were given to it. How are you going to explain to citizens that next year you are going to pay more tuition taxes, how you are going to explain to self-employed people and agricultural workers that you are going to continue to be discriminated against in social security, how you are going to explain to families that masks - all kinds of masks - are not going to have zero VAT, because you decided last week that it was not a good time to work. Your paid holidays in this Congress are getting very expensive to the Spaniards, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, less bad than time puts everyone in their place. [[Rumors.-Protests]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u6	Various contributions have been made to Titles I and II of these Citizens' budgets. We have proposed the introduction of double liability insurance for European funds, so that they are used and used well, without party criteria and with a sense of state. We proposed that all investments should be directed towards financing reforms recommended to Spain in the European Semester. And the Socialist Party and its governing partner voted no. We call for the creation of a centralized and independent technical office to manage European funds, as most European countries in our environment have done. And the Socialist Party and its governing partner voted no. Although Minister Montero is not here, I remember her, so, in fact, Minister, as you very well say, in the matter of budgets it is what and not with whom, and while Republican Esquerra has asked citizens for more taxes to live in Madrid, we were asking for an efficient allocation of European funds that was not part of political manipulation. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you voted against these good proposals for all Spaniards while giving in to separatism. We will vote against these titles and, of course, we will also vote against these General State Budgets. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Píriz Maya has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u8	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I want to begin by saying that it was painful to see this house's tribute to Ernest Lluch, a victim of terrorism, this morning when we began the debate on budgets that have been agreed with those who justified their violence. Ladies and gentlemen, during these days, my colleagues and I will be defending here the more than one thousand and five hundred amendments tabled by our group to a Budget Act that has been adopted in this House at a record time, in a hurry that has no historical record, and when it is not a minor issue, which alarmingly reduces - as this Government does in all areas - the ability of the groups to do their work properly during this process. With this cut in Members' rights they have not achieved their goal; here we are debating the amendments, that is, the ones that have left alive, because the government has tried to veto almost ninety amendments from my group that are not being debated in this House, while at the same time allowing others to be dealt with with with with the contrary report by the Members of the House. For, ladies and gentlemen, you have failed in your attempt to silence us, here we are, presenting a thousand and five hundred amendments that remain alive, which we are going to defend with the passion of those who know that the only alternative project to the Left and Far Left Government of this country is us. We have done our job, we are not on vacation or we have made skins in the Commission; for us it will not be possible to correct the misconceptions that these accounts entail. These are budgets that nobody believes, ladies and gentlemen; accounts that are born expired, accounts that are a great lie, a falsehood of this government. And it is not said by this group, ladies and gentlemen, by any public or private institution that has analysed these accounts. No one believes them, no one; that growth forecast for 2021 of 9.8% of GDP is another big lie; it is not an optimistic forecast. According to the Banco de España, it would be 5.4% or 5.5% according to the AIReF; 5.4 according to the European Commission or 6.7 according to Funcas, 6 for BBVA or 7.2 for the IMF, that would be optimistic. The 9.8 growth they raise is simply a lie they need to bear these accounts, one more. Who do you want to cheat on? We have already heard the Governor of the Banco de España or the President of the AIReF openly doubt this macro table in the Committee on Budgets. These budgets are born dead from incredible and unviable predictions. Can anyone believe the income forecast they contain? Can anyone believe that, after falling into the 12 % environment by 2020 and rising, according to his optimistic forecast - his dream - 9.8 by 2021, this year 2021 can be the most collectible in history? Ladies and gentlemen, do you go out on the street? Do you see the enclosed premises in the towns and cities of our country? Do you see how more than 120,000 companies have closed down in the last 12 months? Who's going to pay that 222 billion euros in collection? Even the 6 points more unemployed that the Banco de España foresees, one out of every three companies that according to the same agency anticipates that they will go into default during the crisis? No, you want to square this amount of income at the cost of the usual, at the cost of the Spanish on foot, at the cost of the small entrepreneurs, of the self-employed, to whom today, precisely today, you have the shame of raising the quota while Dr Sánchez spends 15 million on his councillors' court. They want to square the income also at the expense of families and middle classes, who if they will not pay the tax on sugary drinks, who if they will not pay the tax on financial transactions, the increase of taxes on insurance or Internet purchases? The rich, gentlemen? Are you going to come up here and repeat that falsehood again? Talking about spending on these budgets is talking about the Recovery and Resilience Fund, of the 24 198 million Next Generation that are included in the budgets. The Banco de España itself told them that there was no empirical evidence of the fiscal multiplier, that is, we do not know how much it will contribute to our growth. And we don't know that because they have only defined large blocks, but refusing that an independent entity can effectively manage this fund, and it can become, it will become a new Plan E, more unproductive spending. Only in this way is it understood that its multiplier is close to 1.2 % and that of the Banco de España to 0.3, four times less. No one, I repeat, believes in their ability to deploy those funds in the Spanish economy in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets are not the end of austerity, rather they are the beginning of a new stage of austerity. The Governor of the Bank of Spain in the parliamentary seat has already said that when tax rules are recovered - and I quote textually - at least a decade of adjustments will be required. And you are the specialists in adjustments, you are the specialists; the greatest cuts in the history of this country have been made by you, with the favourable vote of Congressman Sánchez, up there. Do you remember 2010? Dependency, seniors, civil servants' salaries, baby checks and pensions? Do you remember? They cut into everything and everyone. How do you come here to talk with that sufficiency, as if in everything that happened in Spain since 2007 you had no responsibility? They don't cheat on anyone. They talk about austerity, they talk about political trilerism, they cheat, they use their media terminals to distribute bubbles and falsehoods, but if they want, let's go to national accounting and check how they left the country, just like now, then with brutal imbalances and now equal, with a debt that can reach 129% by 2022, and that can undermine any chance of recovery of our future. Ladies and gentlemen, these days we will discuss here two different models, only two, the Frankenstein-socialist model, which will put its hand in the pocket of the Spanish families, which will put Spain in a debt that will not recover - at the early levels of 2019 - until 2036, a model of the left and the extreme left that will tell us that we are apocalyptic, as they did in 2008 and 2009, denying the crisis and taking a catarate of incorrect measures that ended the country on the verge of intervention, which saved the People's Party. That failed model, yours, or ours, which we display with these nearly 600 amendments, some vetoed, cancelling tax increases, proposing some punctual discounts such as VAT on masks to 0% or a reduced rate for hospitality and tourism in 2021. We propose to lower taxes, as all European countries do, in samples of amendments, amendments seeking the optimization of the public administration and to reverse that savings in our autonomous and small entrepreneurs, infrastructures that co-ordinate the country and do not give priority to some territories over others, that we have the same right my children and I in Badajoz as my colleague Bea in Bilbao or Llanos in Barcelona, and the same opportunities, and to reinforce that are our amendments that my colleagues will deploy these days. I'm done, Madam President. There are two antagonistic models and here it will be... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u9	Mr. Píriz, I'm sorry, but your time is up. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor on the position-setting table by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u10	Good afternoon. Pick it up on. We will only make this intervention, and with it we will defend all the amendments of my group, an intervention that I will focus on the support that we will give to these budgets today. A year ago in the investiture session we announced from here, from this very rostrum, that Euskal Herria Bildu would allow the investiture of Mr Sánchez and the formation of this coalition government. And we did it to open a window of opportunity, to open the door to progress in the three objectives of the Basque sovereignist left: to defend and expand the social, labour and economic rights of the people; to advance in the plurinationality of the State, promoting dialogue and recognition as mechanisms for the resolution of the political conflict between Euskal Herria and the Spanish State, and to move towards a prison policy that leaves behind exceptionality, thus advancing in the construction of peace, coexistence and normalization. We can say that, although timid and totally inadequate, steps have been taken in these three objectives, and we can also say that the adoption of these budgets, the green light they imply to continue the legislature, keep the door open to further progress, faster and deeper, and today we can say that small steps have been taken and we are convinced that they will come more and more and more wide. Today begins a new stage. This Government already has budgets and, despite the attempts and efforts of the orange right and on the part of some pseudo-left, a clearly progressive bloc has been formed and strengthened for at least three years, which we are going to articulate on the road to social justice and the restoration of rights. There is already a legislature, and now we are, now we are going to demand much deeper and more far-reaching social and economic progress. This government already has budgets. Now there are no excuses, it's time to do progressive and left-wing policies with capitals for people. We want to make it clear that we will make our votes stand on this path, those of the thousands and thousands of people who trusted us and voted for these changes. We will put all the political capacity of Euskal Herria Bildu in order, together with other forces of this House, together with other left forces of this House, to make the demands of the social and working majorities of this State and of the peoples that make up it come true. We have always been responsible with the citizenry, and we will continue to be responsible, but now we will be much more demanding with the Government, have no doubt. Today we congratulate each other. We welcome the fact that, thanks to the independence of the Basque and Catalan left, the right in any of its versions are no longer part of the political equation, and this is good news not only for us, but for the workers, for vulnerable people and families, for immigrants, for women, for young people or for older people, for all those who have seen their rights and dignity stolen in recent years. It is also good news for our peoples because the opportunity to make progress in achieving our social justice and national freedom remains open. Good news for us and bad news for them, for those of the counter-reform, those of the re-centralizing threat to IBEX and the employer, for those who want to cut rights and freedoms. We do not want to destroy anything, as some voices of the past say, idle and obsolete voices, but build from respect and class solidarity. That's why they kick, because those who bend to the elites and to the great powers create inequality, precariousness and misery in their own population, are the ones who lose. Those are the ones who destroy Spain, not those who fight for more just and freer societies, both here and in our own nations. So no, we will not ask them to shut up; we will only ask them to assume the new reality, to adapt and respect democracy. As I said, with the approval of these budgets we win the progressive forces and above all - above all - the people win. That's why I wouldn't want to end up without sharing it. To share it with the Basque Group, because it has been shown that, even with different objectives and agendas, with the work and effort of the two Basque formations of this House we can achieve improvements for our people and the lives of the Basques and Basques. [[Continues your intervention in Basque]] To the comrades and companions of Esquerra Republicana, to make the way together, to build new alliances and to make Euskal Herria and Catalonia, that Basques and Catalans advance today not only more united, but stronger than ever, many thanks, companies. And above all to the voters and activists of Euskal Herria Bildu for giving us strength and trust in us, for demonstrating to Basque society, to the international community and to this state that we are on our word, that we will always seek the ways to move forward, and for also demonstrating that Basque independence from the left is strong, united and determined in this bet. I'm done. This Government wanted and needed budgets to move forward, and it has them. We want to offer substantial improvements in the lives of Basques and Basques and the working and popular classes of this state, and we will have them. We want better public services, more access to housing, better care, more freedoms and real equality. I have said it and I repeat it: today the door opens to move further and deeper. It's not over today, it's just the beginning. A new stage is opening up in this state, and this historical bloc - as some define it - must give way to historical policies for historical solutions. Basque citizenship has not only our word, but our commitment that it will be.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u11	Mrs. Aizpurua, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u12	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJPNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u14	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Today, after the marathon last week in which we discussed the budget in the Commission, and after two years without this debate, we are back in this plenary to deal with the opinion that the Committee on Budgets made last week. As I said, it was marathon days and that is why I begin, if I may, by thanks for the work done, both by all the staff of the Congress - secretary, stenographers, lawyers, lawyers - and also by the deputies. My group is only going to make two speeches in this debate. One is on this title, in order to facilitate the debate and in line with what has been done so far in the Commission. We will also make an intervention on the last day, both to set our position and to make a final assessment of our amendments and of the draft General Budgets of the State. I have to say that this group has tabled 27 amendments to the joint text, nine of which have already been incorporated into the text, both in the paper and in the Commission. I therefore support the amendments to the joint text which we are keeping alive and which relate to Title III, namely Article 19 and the additional transitional provisions and annexes. In summary, I would like to say that the most important amendments to the joint text relate to the replacement rate of Article 19 and, consequently, to the elimination of certain additional provisions. In particular, what we are asking for is the elimination of Article 19, because we believe that the enlargement provided for in the General Budgets of the State is insufficient, as it is a measure that standardizes the management of the Public Service, without taking into account the different points of departure of each Administration. In addition, we believe that it is far removed from the specific needs in the staffing required in the administrations - and in particular in the Basque Public Service - while reducing the capacity of the administrations if European funds are to be channelled and implemented. It is true that we are told that agile and flexible procedures will be established in this respect, but the truth is that we still do not know them today. On the other hand, we also propose amendments to amend the Royal Legislative Decree 5/2015 approving the consolidated text of the Law on the Basic Status of Public Employees, with regard to selective processes and the consolidation of temporary employment in the Administration. From our point of view, it is necessary to provide a viable solution to the structural problem of long-term high-temporality in the public sector; to meet the European Union's objective of limiting the successive and abusive use of fixed-term contracts or labour relations; to approach the European objective of reducing the public sector's temporality to 8%, and not to jeopardise the continuity of the public service and to avoid any conflict arising from the situation of prolonged interinity. Finally, we highlight another package of measures that we have concerning mutual societies. It is a matter of ensuring that mutual funds are adequate and sufficient to cover the management of temporary incapacity arising from common contingencies, and that they have freedom of management in the budgets, in Chapters I and II, as long as they are to be integrated into the social security budgets and once they are approved. In short, they are amendments to make progress in making better use of mutual resources and experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u16	Thank you, Madam President. The government brings here budgets that discriminate to Galicia, with a drop in investment of 104 million in relation to Montoro's budgets of the year 2018, budgets that were already bad for my country. In fact, these are the worst budgets in seventeen years. This government, which calls itself the most progressive in history, punishes all Galicians and all Galicians by lowering investment by 11%, when overall, they rise more than 68%, and they also rise in most autonomous communities, even above 45%. That is why the question must be asked. Doesn't it embarrass this government to treat Galicia worse than the People's Party did? What will you say, Mr Gómez-Reino, to your voters in A Coruña after opposing a game for the railway connection with the Port Exterior? What explanation will Yolanda Díaz give you for being against regenerating the Ferrol ria - only a million euros - to modernise Navantia in order to create more jobs in the naval sector or to raise minimum pensions? What will you say, Mr Meijón, about the south railway exit of Vigo? [[Continue your intervention in Galician]] Since they have no arguments, they use demagoguery: that if the AVE - lies; that if we place ourselves on the side of these or on the side of those. But demagogy will be of little value to them. Everyone knows who the BNG is next to: the interests of Galicia and of all Galicians and Galicians. By the way, using this argument by the Socialist Party, which always votes with PP and VOX to avoid a Commission of Inquiry into Bourbons, seems to be a joke of bad taste. To protect the corruption of the monarchy you have no problems, but to defend the interests of the Galicians and the Galicians do. They prefer to bend their ears and assume submissively what their addresses decide in Madrid, although this harms all Galicians. Correct, you're still in time, and let's make some good budgets for Galicia. Otherwise, they will have to give many explanations.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u17	Thank you, Mr. Rego. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u18	In any case, we are in favour of the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u19	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Junts per Catalunya believes in the need to negotiate with the Spanish Government, and that is why we have tabled more than 300 amendments to the draft budgets. But the question is what and why we negotiate. We cannot negotiate budgets as if the pandemic did not exist and as if there was no economic and social crisis that entails and that has sharply demonstrated the limitations of the autonomous state for the self-government of Catalonia. Nor can we negotiate without taking into account that we have political prisoners, that repression does not cease and that amnesty and the right to self-determination are not on any government agenda, supposedly the most progressive in history. Not because we are upset will we stop repeating it, because we cannot avoid it; to do so would be a victory for those who claim that we separate it from it, that we re-establish the conflict or that we definitively conquer it, normalizing a situation that would not be normal in any other country that is called democratic in the middle of the 21st century. The investment figures for these budgets are lower than those for 2009, 2010 or 2011. In other words, the same inadequate budgets have been achieved for Catalonia as for the PP, and someone might be tempted to say that this is a budget of 2021 supposedly designed to solve the serious crisis of COVID and, in fact, should be, but it is that in 2009 we also suffered a major economic crisis and the budget doubled the current one. The data reflect a budgeted investment that, moreover, never corresponds to the investment executed. Systemically, regardless of the political colour of the party installed in La Moncloa, the degree of implementation of the budgets is much lower than the average; in the last five years 20% lower than the average. Some will say that this situation is going to change now, that there is going to be a quarterly follow-up and in this way - it is true - we will have more up-to-date information, because so far this information, supplied also late, was annual, but only a reference: the infrastructure commission was constituted in 2007 and did not meet until October 2018. The last meeting of the subcommission on infrastructure was held in 2009 and the working group to establish the methodology for the implementation of the third additional provision closed in 2008. The control set in l'statut failed and is now being attempted in the Budgets Act. They will agree with me that, given the background, expectations are not very encouraging. Your Government and the parties that support these budgets will again explain to us that they are extraordinary accounts for Catalonia, but we do not get those accounts, because the numbers hold the Excel paper and sheets but not the reality. Catalonia no longer needs to announce millions of rains when the only thing that has not stopped raining is complaints, arrests, legal nonsense, animating the prosecutions and awe-inspiring violations in all areas. According to the data of the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona, the minimum investment so that Catalonia can recover from the accumulated underfinancing, perpetrated for years by Spanish governments of all colors, should be 38 billion annually. It is clear that the government of PSOE and United We can not be interested in solving the serious political problem and the serious economic problem facing Catalonia, it is only interested in approving these budgets, and we are interested in resolving the galloping underfunding and the alarming democratic deficit that punish Catalonia and its citizens, whether or not they are independent. Negotiating as if these problems did not exist would be as much as accepting that repression works. And it doesn't work; it doesn't work with us. Some thought that facilitating without any prevention the constitution of the PSOE-Podemos government was a good idea for Catalonia, but the facts show that it was only a good idea for its intention to rule by passing points on the Catalan conflict, which should be its priority but that they only pretend to be its nightmare. Some argue that we should park all this because the priority must be the fight against the health emergency, but it turns out that the management of the pandemic also made it clear that the idea of the world's most decentralized state does not work either. With these credentials, supporting their budgets would require something more than an act of faith. To approve them in these conditions seems to us more an act, I do not know whether of irresponsibility, but of too short-term political tactics. As long as you do not worry about resolving the situation in Catalonia and just worry about winning the next vote in this House we will have to insist on saying no. We can't give them the yes in exchange for nothing or in exchange for almost nothing. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Margall Sastre has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u22	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. We are independentists and Republicans, we have been defending these ideas for eighty-nine years and we will continue to do so, and we are also a party that has always, always and always been at the side of the working and popular classes of the country, and today, in very difficult times, we are back. The COVID-19 pandemic is going on too long and is affecting many sectors of society. The sectors affected by the restrictions that must be taken are many and today the workers, SMEs and self-employed in the country are the ones who suffer most from these consequences. 2020 is being very hard for many and 2021 is looking even harder. It is in these circumstances that we will support these accounts. The dilemma before us was whether to continue with the budgets of right-wing, austere and suffocation to the public sector of Montoro and the People's Party or whether we could have an impact on more expansive budgets with more than EUR 25 billion of European funds and which will try to respond to the current situation. It is clear, from our point of view as independentists and Republicans, that the only just budgets for Catalonia would be those of the independent Catalan Republic, but it is also clear that there were two options for these budgets to go forward: with the support of Citizens, which would have meant that they were budgets against Catalonia, or with the support of Republican Squerra, which means that they are budgets that help those who need it most in Catalonia. Thanks to our intervention and negotiation, these budgets contain the highest investment in Catalonia since 1998 and for the first time in history the third additional provision of the statute is fulfilled. It also reflects the return of part of the State's historical debt to Catalonia as regards the third additional provision of the statute: the financing debt of the Mossos d'Esquadra, the university and justice scholarships; in total, some €481 million representing one third of the total debt. The highest amount of dependency in recent years is also budgeted, another of our requests. In addition, we obtained a moratorium on autonomous quotas during the first quarter of the year, a measure that we have already advanced to them that we are going to defend it to be prolonged. We have also agreed on the end of the control of the finances of the Generalitat by the Treasury, the assimilation of the Catalan Institute of Finance to the ICO, the presence of the Generalitat in the Consortium of the Free Zone and the management by the Generalitat of the minimum living income. In total, between investments and transfers, Catalonia will receive 2339 million euros, 19% of the total, representing Catalonia's GDP in the whole of Spain and above what marks l'statut. It is clear that there are parts of this budget that we do not like. As a republican party, we would not allocate a public euro to finance a corrupt monarchy and crown, of which day after day we know scandals through the media; nor would we allocate so many items to Defense and the purchase of armaments nor would we make a budget for the Interior, where policies of persecution of independence and dissent continue to be financed through the CNI, the Police and the Civil Guard. It is clear that we would not allocate a public euro to finance Colonel Baena's 'death-filemonist' operations, alias Tacitus, which is dedicated to investigating whether 10,000 Russian soldiers were about to enter Catalonia to support their independence. We cannot overlook that the moment in Catalonia is difficult because of the pandemic, but also because of repression, which does not stop. The persecution and arrests of those who harass this police and judicial deep state who act on their own, calendar in hand and with obvious political intentions, continue. This same week, the Supreme Court will rule on the third degree of Catalan political prisoners and prisoners. We have no hope that justice will be done, but the certainty that they will give vengeance, as they have done to this day. From here we want to send all the support to President Carme Forcadell and Constellera Dolors Bassa, who live every day with the anguish of knowing if they are going to run out of the third grade and not be able to go out to work, locked in a cell for twenty-three hours a day. This is also why we support these budgets, to continue working to achieve what was agreed in the investment agreement: to work to end the repression and to channel the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State on the political tracks. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u23	Thank you, Mr. Margall. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u24	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, President. The budget for strengthening public health is increased by more than EUR 3 billion. More than EUR 600 million is allocated to the dependency system, an increase of 46%. More than EUR 700 million of European funds will be allocated for investments aimed at improving care for older people, EUR 200 million to boost education from zero to three years, EUR 300 million to equalise maternity and paternity leave, which will be 16 weeks in transferable and 100 per cent paid. Euro200 million is provided for the reconciliation of families with children under the age of 14 through the public procurement of professional carers, a first milestone in establishing a public care system. Investment to strengthen active employment policies is increasing by more than EUR 2 billion. EUR 200 million is earmarked for the strengthening and modernisation of public social services. Pensions contributing to the CPI are updated while non-contributory pensions double the expected increase in this index. The Iprem, frozen over the last decade and to which most subsidies are referred, finally rises and does so by 5%. The budget allocation against gender-based violence is increasing by EUR 60 million. It also increases the number of university scholarships by EUR 250 million. EUR 2000 million is earmarked for the promotion of renewable energy sources. An investment of $4 billion is provided for the rehabilitation of at least 150 000 housing units per year. As a measure of energy efficiency, the electric car is powered by acquisition aids, charging points and batteries. EUR 25 billion is being provided for research and digitisation, a historic boost to R & D+i, artificial intelligence and digital training. These are some of the main arguments that serve my parliamentary group to vote in favour of these budgets. They are not baladies, they are not ethereal or rhetorical arguments, they are concrete, tangible commitments, already embodied in the proposal that we will vote on over the next few days. These are commitments arising from dialogue and agreement; from the agreement, first of all, between the two political organizations that support this government, and for this reason I did not want to forget to thank the Socialist Party for its willingness to negotiate. But it is also born out of the understanding reached with other parliamentary groups, an agreement that represents, therefore, the lavish majority of citizens of Spain, and not only by the representative logic that prevails legally in this House, but also because these public accounts are designed precisely to guarantee the benefits and rights of these majorities. The rightists, however, today see a new reason to call for rebellion and announce the advent of the ten Biblical plagues. VOX, the usual mountain people, come down from it but not to join the citadel, but to go directly to the beach, to sunbathe, it will not be that the parliamentary work exhausts them. For its part, the PP installs itself in the no, never, nothing and strives to put all possible sticks in the legislative wheel, in short, nothing that has not done to date and that, therefore, we did not expect already. Only Citizens agreed to enter into a negotiation by demanding, yes, that others come out of it, pity that they understood the agreement as an agreement against others rather than focusing on the contents. The truth is that, despite them, we are already very close to having new General State Budgets, extraordinary budgets for extraordinary, even dramatic moments. Therefore, despite the joy we express today, we are still far from being satisfied and satisfied, and we will continue to be satisfied as long as the drama remains present in the lives of so many Spanish families. These budgets are also intended to convey hope to many people in this country that is in need of it, but it will have served no purpose if we are not able to turn hope into results. To this end, we also call on the Government not to lower its guard, to maintain the necessary tension until it has managed to get out of this historic gap that we are going through. Members of the Government, who will count on our commitment and also on our loyalty, keep in mind in this endeavour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when the economic history of Spain is analysed in a few years' time, the General Budgets of the State which we are debating today, the budgets of 2021, will certainly appear as the origin of the ruin suffered by the Spaniards. I have enormous confidence in the Spanish and therefore I trust that sooner or later we will be able to correct this disaster, but there is no doubt: these budgets will do much damage to Spain and when we govern it will cost us a lot of effort to reverse the damage caused. Without a doubt, the most serious part of what is contained in these budgets is precisely that contained in Title I which we are now discussing. If the General Budgets of the State are the numerical translation of the government's economic policy, Title I marks the direction, the direction, the path that will guide the country's economic development over the coming years, because beyond the specific appropriations and budget headings incorporated in each of the different sections that make up the budgets, the totality of revenues and expenditures of the state public sector reflects with meridian clarity the misconception of public accounts that are the most unbalanced in our history, with the beautiful figure of 81 billion euros of deficit. This nonsense of deficit, that is to say the difference between the revenue and the expenditure of the State - expenditure that you yourselves already tell us will not be able to cover with the revenue - will force us to debt even more than we already are, and we will reach even higher levels of public debt. But it is also that this deficit will most likely be even worse than you expected, as the budgets are drawn up with a macroeconomic table of forecasting expenditure and absolutely unreal revenue. These budgets are presented when Spain has not yet completed the fiscal consolidation process of the previous economic crisis, with very worrying levels of public debt that place us in a situation of special vulnerability and loss of sovereignty before our foreign creditors, and all this thanks to the successive PP and PSOE governments that have so irresponsiblely plunged us into this mountain of debt and, moreover, with an absolutely unacceptable unemployment rate and the presence of huge structural imbalances that have accentuated in recent years after many decades of accumulation, all in the midst of a genuine reformist paralysis. Their budgets are treated in a situation of enormous uncertainty, without knowing the final impact of the most devastating economic crisis since the Civil War, after the greatest economic collapse among the OECD countries and with our productive fabric debating between life and business death. We have certainly been the country that has destroyed the most jobs throughout Europe, also the country that has shut down the most companies, but the crisis has not yet ended. More than six hundred thousand workers live in the anguish of not knowing if today's ERTE will become an ERE tomorrow. Tens of thousands of SMEs, self-reliant and merchants struggle not to close their business in an environment of uncertainty, and the tails of hunger are the faithful reflection of the failure of useful measures to fill newspapers, but not to alleviate an extreme need that lives in many Spanish homes. In short, these are budgets completely alienated from the reality that the Spaniards are suffering and from the anguish that many of our compatriots are experiencing. Ladies and gentlemen, a temporary or cyclical crisis linked to an isolated event can easily become a structural crisis if the wrong measures are taken. And that will certainly be the case if, as these budgets do, instead of concentrating our efforts on protecting the productive fabric, saving jobs and alleviating those most affected by the crisis, we attack precisely those who have to be the engine of recovery and enter into a spiral of unproductive political spending. Because unlike Italy, France, Germany or Portugal, which is implementing tax cuts to relieve the burden of businesses, the government has raised all the taxes it can and, where it cannot, has agreed with separatist allies on how to do so, as demonstrated - and Mr Rufián admits - by how it will raise taxes from other communities. When what was urgent was to concentrate public spending on saving and alleviating a bleeding Spain, these budgets focus on saving politicians and the ideological agenda that allows Mr Sánchez to remain in power. [[Applauds]] Title I enshrines the Government of the twenty-two ministries. You seem to have found no superfluous expenditure to be left to direct spending towards the most important items. Conversely, they have increased spending in each and every program and ministry, especially in the ministries intended to pay their political bills and cover their ideological agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the worst possible government at the worst possible time has also logically drawn up the worst possible budgets. That is why VOX tabled an amendment to all these ruin budgets. Those who voted against this amendment as a whole will be totally responsible for this ruin, and those who accept the essential body of these budgets and collaborate with the Government in partial amendments will be partly responsible for this ruin. I'm done. We look with concern at these budgets and above all at this government, but today we also see with concern opposition groups who would like to work even more closely with the government of Pedro Sánchez. And if they are no longer collaborators, it is not for lack of desire, it is because above them Pedro Sánchez despises: some, that if he does not take their phone, the others, that if they leave their hand stretched out when he has already despised them to their satiety. Ladies and gentlemen, we are clear on VOX and do not change our view. There is nothing to negotiate, nothing, with Pedro Sánchez, nothing, because this is not a sensible government, and we are not going to agree anything with those who negotiate with Bildu and try to whitewash their membership of ETA. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to pay tribute in the morning to a former minister killed by ETA and in the afternoon to reach agreements with those who killed him. [[Applauds]] And the lordship of Bildu, they give us arcades when they hear you speak of minors, women and immigrants, as if you were acting in their defense. Look, women, those who killed in Hipercor; minors, those who killed in the Civil Guard barracks, and immigrants, those who killed in the T4 bombing. [[Applauds]] And that's why we won't reach any agreement with this government, any. And VOX will never do it. On the contrary, we will fight against them, against you and against you, all the days of our life. And it seems a lie that once again we are left alone, but once again there is only VOX left. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u27	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u28	Thank you very much, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, to answer, I'm going to spend the same time as you and your group spent working last week: zero. [[Applauds]] Mrs Borràs, it is noted that these budgets have taken you in the campaign of your primary ones, because coming here to say that these budgets are the same as those of Mr Montoro is to know nothing of the dossier of the budgets of 2021. [[Applauds]] Mrs Borràs, while you dream of the elections on 14 February, there are many Catalans and many Catalans who are not allowed to dream of this crisis. These are good budgets for Catalonia. These budgets increase investment and are good for Catalan society as a whole. The flag war, Mrs Borràs, does not pay the bills, and in Catalonia we have been anchored in that flag war for too many years. Mr Píriz, 90 of the 1500 amendments are 1410. I do not believe that we have silenced their voice when 94% of their amendments remain alive. You have been able to work and will be able to defend them from this atrium. Don't cheat on me - we'll see, it will be the speech that each of your spokespersons will use when you come up to this rostrum; I warn you, comrades -; you will start by talking about the macroeconomic picture, but don't cheat on me when you compare the figures: it's not worth taking the upper part of the economic picture, which incorporates the European funds, that 9.8% recovery, with the lower part, which other independent international bodies talk about, because it's not fair and you know it's not right. In addition, in order to strengthen the discourse, the International Monetary Fund speaks precisely of 7.2% in the worst scenario, which is also the worst scenario given by this government. And, Mr. Píriz, aren't sugar drinks consumed in every household? Are they consumed in all or not? To say that sugary drinks are consumed only in certain households demonstrates their class and that you are snobs. [[Applauds]] It is normal that those who ruled in the previous crisis, applauding in this House each and every one of the cuts to the welfare state, do not like this budget, because it is precisely a 180° turn from what you then did, gentlemen of the People's Party. It goes to social justice, it goes to equality, to co-governance and to strengthen our welfare state, coinciding thus, comrades and companions, with our socialist DNA. [[Applauds]] These budgets are the necessary instrument to address our country's economic recovery, to deal with the virus and to protect all citizens. What don't you like, Mrs. Muñoz, gentlemen of Citizens? What don't you like, Mr. Rego? The historical increase of 150% in health care? That social services and dependency receive the greatest funding in our country's history? The record figure in education, with an increase of 70%? The increase in housing policies by more than 300%? Or is it that, Mr Rego, there are no people in Galicia who have economic benefits and social benefits and who depend on Iprem? In these budgets the Iprem is increased as it has not been updated for ten years. To all this you, who are going to vote against, as you have said in the Committee on Budgets on various occasions, consider it useless, of trileros, unjust, insufficient, unreal. Is it useless to transfer EUR 13 billion to the Autonomous Communities to cover the impact of COVID-19? That's in these budgets. Is the minimum living income, which will reach 850,000 households, a trileros? It's in the budget. Is it unfair to guarantee equal opportunities for access to studies through scholarships? It's in the budget. Or is it not enough to incorporate 27 billion euros from European funds, because our President negotiated them in Brussels, when the last precedent we have of a crisis in this country was that President Mariano Rajoy returned with zero euros from Brussels and with scissors? That 27 billion is in the budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, where you see unreality, we see your dream. Mr. Píriz, you have defined us the Frankenstein model - you have not given you time to define the other one, it will be the only one you know -. The Frankenstein model is the one who looks only forward, forgetting what we have on the sides and who is left behind. You, Mr Píriz, have left us an inheritance that I will recall: two million children's poverty; 22% of the population at risk of social exclusion; two out of every three people unemployed, without any benefit; almost 40% of Spanish households do not have enough savings to survive two months covering basic payments; young people expelled from the country; 300 000 dependent on the waiting list. Where you see one reality there is another parallel. Where you see economic debt we see that this country has a debt, yes, a social debt; as a country we have a debt with so many people to whom you turned your back. You can be more right-wing or more left-wing, you can be more or less effective, but what you cannot afford, gentlemen of the People's Party, is indecency and overaction in politics. [[Applauds]] In the general budgets that we are going to approve, the objective of strengthening the welfare state remains, overcoming the cuts, putting on the political agenda those rights that the socialists promoted and that you kept in the drawer of oblivion, such as the Law of Dependency, and the objective of consolidating in this legislature new rights, such as the minimum vital income, so that never again, governs who rules, you keep in that drawer that you like so much. Despite the criticisms, despite the insults, despite the screams, comrades and companions, we are proud this week every time one of us goes up to this rostrum and Thursday when we press the green button. We will always remember that we are convinced, despite all of them, in the adoption of general country budgets. These are the budgets that this country needs, these are the budgets that we are going to approve. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Mínguez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Title III We continue with the debate on Title III. In defence of amendments, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u30	Thank you, President. Before we enter fully into the debate and defend the amendments to Title III, I mean Mrs Aizpura, Member of Parliament for Bildu, who already knows why she is not going to make any more speeches. Their partners are not going to make any more interventions because they care about a Spanish pepper. [[Applauds]] In addition, you have agreed to all, less than the nearly 1,000 victims killed by ETA. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, it is a small shame to have these partners, who have already made it clear to them that they are going to pull out even the figs for the governance of a country in which they do not believe. They're giving me arcades. With regard to this title, on the public service, I begin my intervention by drawing attention to a point that also causes me to be shocked and outraged; to be embarrassed as a politician and outraged as a citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of the pandemic, you thought it was a very good idea and a good time to raise your salary, to apply to your person the same salary increase as to the heroes of health, because, of course, you are worth it. Just when the more specimens we should be, it's embarrassing that you just thought of your navel and your stomachs. And the way to reverse this salary increase would be a joke if it were not to be a pity, by presenting an out-of-date amendment, when several groups in this House shouted into the sky and we also tabled an amendment to that effect. Mr. Guijarro is not - he has come out - but I leave it here written. I want to tell you, like many others who will think the same, that I am surprised that at this point in the debate it is still said that Citizens could support these budgets but that we do not do so because we do not come out in the same photo as Bildu and Esquerra. Indeed, we will never be in an agreement that depends on Spain's governability to carry unacceptable concessions and immoral separatist counterparts. But, Mr Guijarro, these General State Budgets for 2021 are bad for the Spaniards. It is not only who, as Minister Montero said, but also what. As far as Public Service is concerned, in Citizens we have several concerns that we have tried to resolve with our contributions to the budgets. We are concerned about the abuse of temporality, we are concerned about the difficulty of attracting workers to the public sector and we are concerned about wages. These are concerns that we have expressed many times in this House and that we really hoped we could have addressed in these budgets. With regard to temporality, it was an issue that the Government had to address immediately. We have judgments from the European Union that have demonstrated a truly unfair situation that is taking place today in our country, which is taking place in Spain regarding the abuse of the temporary nature of the recruitment of workers by public administrations. But it is not just about meeting Europe, ladies and gentlemen, but about improving the quality of our public employment. It is about turning all temporary public employees into indefinite personnel who are in law fraud, and doing so through an extraordinary restricted merit competition, without costing the Spaniards a single euro, because their places are already created. But the PSOE and its government partner voted no. I must also remind you that from Citizens we are trying to expand the staff involved in research by means of an amendment to make public sector research agency staff, including health research, a priority sector, but the PSOE voted not. The Government has voted not to make health researchers a priority sector. We also call in our amendments for an increase in the replacement rate of the State Security Forces and Bodies, the autonomous police forces and the local police. But the PSOE and its government partner voted no. Finally, we proposed that the restrictions on the remuneration of staff of the mutual societies should be abolished. Guess what the PSOE vote is. He voted no. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let me make one thing very clear to you: we are going to vote against this title of the general budgets not only because Esquerra and Bildu are in the picture; we are going to vote against because they did not want to incorporate one of our improvement amendments, because they refuse to include improvements for their ideological prejudices. You give the red button against good ideas just because they come from the opposition, you kill the amendments because they are not yours, you don't even attend to that of considering our health researchers a priority sector. You'll know why. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u32	Thank you, Madam President. The pandemic caused by the COVID-19 highlighted the need to strengthen public health, a health deteriorated by years of cuts, privatization and precariousness. In Galicia, we are well aware of the policies that have brought our health system to a limit. Interestingly, now all political forces seem to agree on the need to strengthen the public health system, but, as always, it is one thing to preach and another to give wheat. More resources must be allocated to health rather than, for example, increasing military spending, also for more personnel and better conditions. This requires the elimination of the troop replacement rate, not only to increase the number of health-care staff, but also to eliminate the high rate of temporaryity and the precarious conditions in which many health-care workers are working. I would like to recall that a BNG amendment was adopted for the document of the Reconstruction Commission in July urging the Government to eliminate this rate at least in the area of health and that the government parties, PSOE and Podemos, voted in favour. In spite of this, when it became necessary to implement it in these budgets, they chose not to do so, and yet this would be a real social policy: strengthening public health and all public services, especially those that had to adapt without sufficient means to a new situation, for example, public education and social and welfare services. Similarly, the BNG proposes an increase in the salaries of employees and public employees higher than the Government envisages in order to begin to recover the loss of purchasing power that occurred during the years of the previous economic crisis as a result of the wage freeze in the public administration carried out by the governments of the People's Party. We believe that it is time to settle this debt because it also contributes to a more motivated and effective public administration. These are the reasons why we are submitting amendments, which we hope will be met. In any case, we take them all for granted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u34	Thank you, Madam President. I will take advantage of this first round to make a general position on the budget. On more than one occasion we have said that this is not the budget that we would have made, but the responsibility now lies with the Government, and from that point of view we have taken some aspects into account. Obviously, one cannot forget the situation that we are living in Catalonia, a situation of abnormality, with prisoners and exiles, but also of very abnormality due to the health situation resulting from an unprecedented pandemic, from which it also becomes an unprecedented economic and social crisis. Faced with this situation, we assess the different circumstances that could happen. If these budgets were not approved, beyond speeches, the situation is not that we were faced with the non-existence of budgets, since the 2018 budget of the People's Party was maintained, which we then voted against. Someone might think that what should be done would be to lower the budget, so that the Government, which had just made two elections in a row, would have no choice but to call other elections. But with other elections it would not improve the situation in Catalonia or that of the Spanish state as a whole. There will be someone who will think that other elections might give a chance, a chance, but what they would cause would be a situation of greater instability, when more stability is required than ever. We therefore do not propose an amendment in its entirety, with the will to negotiate. And this negotiating will has led us to establish a sincere, not easy, dialogue with the Government in order to try to negotiate a number of amendments. It is obvious that we would have liked the three hundred amendments that we have tabled to be adopted. I'm sure that's what everyone would want, too. In any case, one must know, and in politics first and foremost, that when it is negotiated one must be prepared to give up something, because, if not, one will not negotiate, but to impose strictly a criterion. That is why one can say that he likes to negotiate very much, but if, in the end, after time and time, he does not sit down, dialogue and come to some agreement, surely there will be some inability in the negotiation. So that's what we've done. We have tabled some amendments - I will explain it in the title - in the area of taxation that we think should be adopted, or at least reconsider some aspects. This has not been possible, but it has been possible to improve the situation of Catalans and Catalans in relation to different aspects, such as railway infrastructure, research and development, which is also a priority for us, or on some cultural issues and others that we will detail throughout this debate. In any case, in view of this situation, it seemed to us that it was time to agree on some budgets, some budgets that, if we consider how they entered and how they will come out, objectively, they are certainly not the best - I tell you - but they are better than the ones we have. And if they are better than the ones we have, it will be very difficult for us to look at our voters, our fellow citizens and tell them that we are voting not for equal reasons, that they do not come to the case now, or that if they want to we can also discuss. We have therefore done what is not easy in politics, which is to agree. Surely, it is much more comfortable to remain immaculate in positions, but the usefulness of politics is measured by the facts, not only by statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs De Luna Tobarra has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by saying that these are absolutely out of date budgets. They're fanciful in income and irresponsible in spending. More debt and more taxes have only one possible result: more crisis and more unemployment. We are paying for the irresponsibility of a government that has twice failed in health management and economic management, completely ruining vital sectors such as hospitality, leisure, transport, catering and tourism. With the PSOE the same story is always repeated: first they shoot the expenditure, the debt and the taxes, in order to end up giving a fling with unjust social adjustments and leaving a terrible inheritance to the governments of the People's Party, which we then have to get Spain out of the well in which they put us. Let us suffer the most authoritarian, totalitarian and exclusive government of all Spanish democracy. Since responsibility, the People's Party has tried to improve these budgets by tabling 1500 amendments, which in some cases have been vetoed and in others have been rejected. Is it true that there was not one of the 1500 amendments on which they could have abstained? They love to re-edit the sanitary cordon against the People's Party that has already begun with the Tinell Pact, now in a corrected and augmented version, adding more enemies from Spain, incorporating Bildu. You can have more sectarianism and viscerality than common sense, reason and, above all, the general interest of the Spaniards. Sánchez and Iglesias have chosen the worst partners to approve bad budgets. The price of pacting with Bildu and Esquerra is to get out of Catalonia what remains of the state and eliminate any idea of Spain. Proof of this is the veto on the amendments proposed by my group to establish a pay supplement for judges and prosecutors in Catalonia, as already exists in Navarre and the Basque Country. They have also vetoed the pay supplement that we have proposed for the men and women of the Civil Guard and the National Police destined for Catalonia. You have vetoed these amendments only because they are aimed at strengthening constitutionalism in Catalonia and at the presence of the State in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] They have abandoned more than half of the Catalans and have fallen into the arms of the separatists, of whom they want to leave Spain, who, paradoxically, are the ones conditioning the lives of all Spaniards, who - paraphrasing their partners, as has already been said - care for a cumin. In addition to this paradox, we draw much attention to the fact that one of its partners, Esquerra Republicana, in tax matters is practicing what we could call the politics of the Oxymoron, of the contradiction: re-centralizing separatism. Live to see! In the same vein as ending constitutionalism and the state in Catalonia, we have been rejected by the efforts of the High Inspectorate of Education, which currently only has an area director and a high inspector in this community. It is a rejection that is in line with the establishment of a sectarian education, excluding Spanish, concerted education and special education. They have also rejected the increase in the replacement rate to 125 per cent for the State Security Forces, regional police, local police and prison administration, priority areas within the public sector. They have rejected the increase in the replacement rate up to 130% for health personnel, while we proposed that, exceptionally, with community motivation, this rate could be increased to meet the pressing needs arising from the pandemic. They have even rejected the amendment with which my group would like to acknowledge the work of the health workers, for whom an extraordinary pay was proposed for their almost heroic performance. You argue that you cannot increase spending to pay pay increases because it encourages spending on police, civilian guards, etc. It is a pretext that is not held to be immoral, when it is the largest government in ministers and vice-presidents - eighteen ministers and four vice-presidents - with the largest number of advisors in history: 777. The €44 million budgeted to pay eventual staff is eight times the money that Spain allocates to WHO to alleviate the pandemic. Nor have members of the Government and senior officials of the public administration given up their salaries and rejected two amendments from my parliamentary group in this regard. It is absolutely unacceptable that the salaries of members of the Government and senior officials should rise, when most Spaniards have seen their family income cut as a result of the economic crisis. With the 55.8 million euros that cost us the salary increase of the very many high offices of this hypertrophied Administration could be hired 1850 doctors, 2056 nurses or 300 officials. As regards the supply of public employment, this is the first time that it is done without negotiating it with the majority trade unions of the Administration. You are provoked by dialogue and collective bargaining, you are more of the taste of order and command. They have planned an insufficient supply, without a serious and rigorous analysis of human resources, and staffing is increasingly scarce and ageing. Know that the average age in the Administration is around fifty years and in Social Security around fifty-eight years. They have also rejected the reinforcement proposed by my parliamentary group concerning the staff of both SEPE and the National Social Security Institute to deal with the amount of ERTE, because they do not provide enough with the avalanche that exists, and the minimum vital income. Not only are the most vulnerable and needy sectors of the population not being responded to, but the processing of other benefits, such as pensions, disabilities, etc., is being delayed. This government, which is not progressive, is not responding to the most needy and vulnerable in this pandemic, when they should have been the priority groups in these General State Budgets. They have also rejected the proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group that the places left behind in a public job offer should be piled up to the following offers and have also rejected the holding of an opposition competition to give stability to temporary staff and it is the Ministry of Public Administration that is responsible for this follow-up asking each local and autonomous administration to convene such competitions in order to keep up with the stability of public employment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u37	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Luna. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] On a position-setting basis, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u38	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, we would like to express once again our satisfaction that these general budgets will be approved and will be made by the majority of the investiture, a progressive, solidarity-based and plurinational majority that perfectly outlines a future horizon that understands the State that we really are and that our group is delighted to continue to walk. But, above all, we are glad that these budgets are going to be approved because with them the cycle of a long, too long decade of austerity is going to end - it is good that the spokesman of the People's Party remembers some of the things that have been agreed - which has been particularly devastating in the field of public administration and public administration. In this decade, in which in much of it you have been ruling, the accumulated loss of purchasing power of officials has been, according to the unions you cite here, between 12.9 and 17.9 of your salary. Not to mention the replacement rates, which with you was 0%, with the exception of 10% in the case of essential services, which, among other things, has caused the serious problem of temporality. If administrations could not hire fixed personnel, they obviously had to make use of the figure of temporality, which they have continued to make use of because the replacement rates have not been reversed. That is why it was so important that these budgets should meet these needs and that there should be a wage increase of 0.9 per cent for staff; although some said that it would freeze, it has finally risen. We know that it is not enough, that more could be done, but there is a wage increase. With regard to replacement rates, we are going to increase from 75% to 100% in the overall rate, from 100% to 110% in essential services and 115% in the State Security Forces and Bodies. As I say, we know it is not enough, but it is the right way to recover all that degradation that cuts policies have generated in public services. When we talk about public services we talk about citizens' rights and when we talk about degraded public services we talk about degraded public health, degraded public education, inefficient justice, and all this has an impact on the quality of our democracy and the quality of our State. That was your plan, gentlemen, and we all know it. You have sought to degrade public services and then justify any kind of privatization measures, as you have done and are doing in those communities where you govern. Therefore, do not come here now to teach us about public services or the functioning of the public administration, because its model is privatization and dismissal. It is very good that you recognize the work of our health care providers and health care providers, but they are health care providers and health care providers in the autonomous communities where you govern. That's his model. We therefore welcome these budgets. Although we know that much remains to be done and that we will have to make further progress in the coming years, we are also aware that there are a number of constraints marked by the expenditure restrictions set by the Ministry of Finance. Furthermore, if we want to have more spending capacity, we will have to increase the capacity to generate State revenue and, therefore, we will need to address at some point an ambitious tax reform, which will make those who have more pay more or, rather, those who have more pay what they really have to pay, to which we are sure you will oppose. So less lessons and more support everyone's interest. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u39	Thank you, Mr. Honrubia. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ruiz Navarro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u40	Thank you very much. Gentlemen of Podemos, what's your model? We have already heard the model of the People's Party, but we would like to know yours. Maybe Venezuela? Perhaps you share the model of the Socialist Party, that of a government with 4 vice-presidents, 18 ministers, 30 secretaries of state, 50 undersecretaries, 54 cabinet directors, 135 directors-general and hundreds and hundreds of advisors, that is, a large unproductive factory to place all friends? Is that your model too, gentlemen of Podemos? [[Applauds]] And quite logically, in your budget bill you, gentlemen of the government, claim that it is all the Spaniards who pay their placement party on the logical basis of raising taxes, because the truth is that you say what you say this someone will have to pay it. Its structure of government, according to article 20 of the project, involves a minimum expenditure of EUR 15 million per year, and this only refers to the high offices of the Government of the General Administration of the State, without logically counting on assimilated ones, nor to the productivity that many of them charge, nor to the legion of connected advisers, whose number you are going to increase by more than 50%. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, is it really necessary to have so much vice-president, so much minister, so much high office, so much adviser? But you have also taken advantage of this bill to change the figures of your salaries directly upwards in a remarkable way. Compared to the 2018 budgets, still in force without the possibility of extension, the president of the government is going to raise the salary by 4600 euros per year; each vice president in more than 4300 - that is, the four, 17 500 euros - and each minister, of 18 that there is, in 4100 euros per year. Total ministers, almost EUR 74 000; total government salary increase, almost EUR 100 000 per year. In addition to the 0.9 % provided for in Article 18.2, the other senior officials of the AGE Administration are paid a specific amount in their salaries, which is set out in the draft budget law itself. To the Secretaries of State and assimilated, almost 4000 euros; Undersecretaries and others, 3500; Directors-General, slightly more than 3000 euros per year. In total, counting the increase in the number of senior staff and advisers, we reach more than 30 million euros per year of the new staff expenditure. It gives me the impression that you have taken the Spanish sufferers for your particular Magi Kings, that is, laymen, of course, and very Republicans. [[Applauds]] And you are the ones who called the previous government indecent, but what have you done to deserve this rise in salaries and this excess of spending that you propose to us? Until recently you were telling us that you were not going to leave anyone behind, that we would all get out of this stronger crisis. Now I understand, yes: you are the ones who want to get reinforced, especially in your pockets. On the other hand, they still resist recognizing that because of their incompetence they have already left millions of Spaniards behind. Hey, are you aware that your disastrous management has already led to the destruction of 1,200 000 Spanish jobs, according to the EPA? And they haven't even asked for forgiveness, and on top of that they want to raise their salaries. How does the word indecency fit into this scenario? Tell me about it. But, look, if there are two essential elements for the defence and functioning of our democracy, they are certainly the judiciary and the forces and bodies of State security, and it hurts me to see how you continue to no longer budgetaryly unite your servants. I ask you: what does judicial power mean to you? Is it for you the third power of the State or is it a mere public service protected by the Ministry of Justice? We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, for example, about those who belong to the category of entry of the judicial career, of the prosecutor or of the body of lawyers, who charge a misery for the responsibility they have, and, yes, ladies and gentlemen, the independence of the third power of the State begins with the retributive dignity of those who make up and serve it. And its draft budget law in its article 27 does not take advantage of the opportunity to improve the situation of the youngest, of its members, the majority women, by the way, who are in the worst professional destinations. Let us also talk about the equalization of salaries of the officials of the State Security Forces and Corpses and of all the officials of the Administration of Justice throughout Spain. Isn't it fair to claim that at the same job same pay? Why is this budget bill not used to harmonize pay schemes and supplemental amounts by redressing the serious injustices that exist? [[Applauds]] Finally, I do not forget the healthcare staff. The governor of the Banco de España himself has recently claimed that this group should be paid in fair recognition for the professional stress it has been suffering, and it would have been as simple as introducing a specific percentage increase in article 18.2 of the bill; but no, apparently this does not matter either. There is no explanation for the fact that this Government recognizes the efforts of health personnel and that it does not make an effort to recognize economically those who are giving everything in the midst of this pandemic. Every day it is clear that, if we talk about efforts, those who are going to pay for the duck are the Spaniards who are struggling to survive and that this government is only a heavy burden for early-morning Spain. Stop disrespecting the Spaniards who pay them their wages. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Aceves Galindo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u42	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that by focusing the debate a little bit I wanted to start, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, by thanking the 2.5 million public employees in this country who leave their skins every day and who in a pandemic have shown the importance of the public, although some spokesmen do not care. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] By continuing to focus the debate, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that if we had to put a video to a citizen of everything that has been said here, the first thing I would say is, what are we talking about? You have come here to sell a book, most of the times, by the way, with very dark covers, - some of them so late that you can't read it - but not to what we're really talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a pandemic and, if in any institution the most important law that is debated and approved is that of general budgets, in this case the state, in pandemic and with the critical situation that our country is experiencing approving these budgets is a necessary question, of country, exceptional, and whoever does not want to understand it and want to stage the opposite here is because he wants this country very little, because the lessons of patriotism are done here, voting and pressing for people to have opportunities. The rest, populism, populism right now. [[Applauds]] By the way, endorsed by Europe, ladies and gentlemen of the right, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, which they forget. I know that you are decentralised, disenfranchised; you have gone from defending the magnificent austere to checking now how in Europe, after the arrival of social democracy in countries like Spain, a president has managed to hear the voice of public mobilization in Europe to attend and not leave anyone behind, but you have already changed the speech and you have realized that now everything you said has to rewind it because it is the opposite. Look, that's a real role-playing game, by the way, very childish and very anti-patriot, on the other hand. I'm going to tell you a little story that seems graphic to me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Last week - I am a Segovian and I say it proudly - a taxi driver from this city took me to the train to go to my province and literally told me something I told him I was going to say here: citizenship will never understand that when it comes to fixing a problem some people just devote themselves to doing populism, to giving voices and not to grab their shoulder and to joining together to get this country out of the way. First, join, and then, when you have joined, criticize whatever you want. Apply it, ladies and gentlemen, is little more than the voice of this citizen, whom I believe is important in this Parliament. We are talking about Title III of the draft budgets for the year 2021, and in this rostrum, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard Mr Casado, - remember, no? - criticise the President of the Government because there were more public employees - he said the last day - and he also said that the salaries of public employees had to be lowered or at least frozen. That is the thesis of the People's Party and it is written in the Journal of Sessions and it is written here for all of you. [[Rumors]] It bothers them, if I know it bothers them, but it's their model. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u44	And the Socialist Party will never allow anyone who promotes the biggest cuts in the public in this country to be heard to give lessons, none, but no lessons in this regard. We are passing, ladies and gentlemen, from the Montoro budget, from the austere budget, to the Montero budget, the budget of the opportunity to end this crisis so unfortunate that because of the COVID - do not forget, because this is the effect of a global pandemic - we are suffering. I think it is a good exercise to increase the salary of public employees and for all, ladies and gentlemen, for the Security Forces, for doctors, for teachers, for firefighters, for people who work in education, for all, ladies and gentlemen, for those who work in the environment, etc. That's the best test of cotton, and cotton here doesn't cheat. When you pass the cotton you realize what it means not to defend the interests of the citizens but to defend theses that are completely out of place right now. I'm going to answer some of the questions from some spokespersons. To the spokesman for VOX I say with all the affection that in these budgets they have neither dawned nor worked and, by the way, they have misfired the shot. You know why? Because they have not heard of the Commission's opinion, they have not heard at all. [[Applauds]] There is no increase in the salary of the Government of this country, Your Honor, there is no increase. They don't even know about that. [[Applauds]] They haven't worked, much less. So, think about what you always tell us and apply it to it because during these two months your productivity is negative, ladies and gentlemen. To the spokesman of the People's Party, sincerely, I also say this with affection, how can you go up to this rostrum and talk at the same time about lowering taxes and exponentially raising public spending? But who are you fooling? Where have you studied economics? [[Rumors]] That means privatization of the public, it means going against the basic services that reach the citizenry and, above all, in complicated times. So, the use of fake news is nothing good and you use it in many ways, as well as anti-politics, but anti-politics with capital words. I'll tell you one thing clearly: they're still on time. This country demands of you agreements, it demands of you to tie your shoulder, it demands of you to know that this country needs you and you, once again, what you do is to turn your back, not to tie your shoulder, to turn your back. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u45	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u46	I'm going to tell Mrs. Citizen's Spokesperson, with all my affection, that they were wrong in September of last year and today they are wrong again. They were wrong in September and look at what happened in November, so after what happens now the abyss will come. Therefore, do not give any choice because you, if you do not realize, go into the abyss. Who wants to say yes to Spain and its needs, who wants to say yes to these budgets and who wants to help those who need it most to support these budgets. The rest, ladies and gentlemen, populism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Aceves. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Titles IV and VIII, and Section 07, Passive classes We move on to the discussion of Titles IV and VIII and Section 07, Passive Classes. In defence of amendments, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u48	Thank you, Madam President. I asked the Socialist Group's spokesman earlier whether the BNG felt it wrong to increase some social policy items. It is not that it seems bad to us, I think it is radically wrong with the BNG if it goes there; what we find wrong is that they grow insufficiently, that they remain half in the bet for a really social budget. That is why the BNG has tabled amendments to increase the departure of the Dependency Act, so that the State actually pays what is legally marked, which is 50%; to amend the property tax and raise 1 point not from EUR 10 million, but from EUR 1 million, so that it has that really redistributive effect; to change VAT and the IRPF for the most disadvantaged sectors; to strengthen public health, for example, by eliminating the replenishment rate or by providing more resources, instead of increasing military spending by EUR 400 million, to provide 300 million to the CNI to spy more and better or to raise almost 7% to the Royal House - that increase is not explained; I would almost say that they could have saved the whole departure because it is clear that the Bourbons are financed in a much more cost-effective way by other means - and also to raise minimum pensions. This is social policy. Since the Socialist Party and Podemos have no arguments to justify what is a clear discrimination towards Galicia in territorialized investments, they use demagogic arguments, such as that the AVE is already finished, but that is a lie. Look, today he was rereading a 1988 news report in which a gentleman who was Minister of Transport with the socialist government, who is called Abel Caballero - currently President of the FEMP - promised that there would be a high-speed connection between Galicia and Madrid in 1993. Finally, 1993! We are in the year 2020 and in these budgets there is an action such as the variant of Ourense valued at more than 600 million and endowed only with 29 million euros, that is that they did not even finish the AVE, apart from that for us the priority would be the internal railway connections. We are also told that these are social budgets; not so much, as I mentioned earlier. In any case, if these are social budgets, they will also be for Asturias, which is up 63 % or for Murcia, which is up 83 %. What's going on? That the Galicians have to comply with those budgets of theirs that seem to be social and to give up having an investment that we need, among other things, to compensate for the historical deficit in investments in equipment and infrastructure? I think no, I think it is an absolutely demagogic argument and you will have to look for another if you want to justify that discrimination towards Galicia. With regard to pensions, once again you were short. The electoral programmes of the Socialist Party and Podemos said that minimum and non-contributory pensions would be raised. Pensions and non-contributory pensions are now limited to 0.9 % and non-contributory pensions to 1.8 % - less badly - but it is clearly insufficient, at least to narrow existing gaps in this area, such as the gender gap or territorial gaps. I would like to recall that Galicia has the second lowest pensions in the Spanish State, with an average of 970 euros, which are 183 euros less than the average of the Spanish State. But do you know which province with the lowest pensions? For it is the province of Ourense, nothing more and nothing less than with 807 euros, that is, more than 500 euros less than the average pension of Madrid, but it seems that the Galician and Galician deputies of the Socialist Party and Podemos do not worry about this. These are social policies; this is what needs to be addressed. That is why we tabled an amendment to raise minimum pensions to the level of the inter-professional minimum wage, with the prospect that both pensions and wages would be set at 60% of the average wage. These are social policies, but this is not prepared to do so by this coalition government. We therefore support our amendments in all the headings and sections of the budgets, but in particular we stress that it is essential to move in the direction of narrowing the gaps that currently exist in pensions, because they are extremely serious and have no justification whatsoever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u50	Thank you again, President. To the spokesman of the PSOE I wanted to tell you that the abyss is where you are taking us, the abyss is where you are taking this country with those traveling companions you have chosen, who claim to come to Madrid to end the 1978 regime, and a moment ago one of them, one of your partners, Mrs.Aizpurua, of Bildu, from this rostrum has taken the first step for the independence of Euskal Herria. That's the abyss where the PSOE takes us. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point in the debate, it is when we tackle pensions, social contributions and passive classes, it is when we have to put long lights on because talking about pensions is talking about the future, and to talk about the future we have to start acting today. First of all, I would like to welcome again the huge consensus reached a few weeks ago in this House in the Toledo Pact Committee, an example, ladies and gentlemen, which shows that when the agreement is wanted, it is possible. At times like this, the Toledo Pact agreement is of special relevance, because it deals with pensions and it is the pensioners who have suffered the most from this pandemic. The virus has been devastating to our elders. For the first time since registration, the number of pensioners has fallen from the previous year. We already know why and, honestly, there are no words. We are talking about the generations who fought for democracy in our country, who put an end to a dictatorship and starred in an exemplary transition. We are talking about those generations who after the 2008 crisis had to help their children to pay the mortgage and had to tie their shoulders when they were finishing their working lives. And now, when they were already facing a calm future, this pandemic has arrived and forced them to be separated from their loved ones and to live in fear. We have a huge debt to our elders that we will never be able to pay. My group is debating the amendments in this section and also with regard to passive classes, but I do want to talk about the amendments tabled with regard to social contributions. These were amendments which sought to be a relief for our small and medium-sized enterprises and a relief for our self-employed; amendments which, at the same time, sought to contribute to the sustainability of employment at a time as difficult as the present. The first thing we proposed was to increase from 20 to 25 per cent the bonus for female domestic workers, those female domestic workers with less income, to promote the regulation of their work; those female domestic workers who in most cases have a single payer who pays them the minimum, because they work a few hours and many of them work in the informal economy. And you know what? That the PSOE voted no. We also proposed a number of amendments to make their situation more manageable for another group very affected by this pandemic. I am talking about amendments for street vendors or home vendors. It is true that the budgets offer each year the possibility of lower contribution bases for these people, who already have a particularly vulnerable job. However, we believe that this measure is insufficient; if what is sought is for these workers to stop operating in the informal economy the reduced base that is allowed as optional the truth is that it remains rather short. That is why we proposed a fee bonus consisting of a flat rate of 60 euros per month for these workers, temporary and many of them in the informal economy. And you, lords of PSOE and your coalition government partners, the lords of Podemos, voted no. We have also proposed the extension of the bonus to permanent discontinuous workers linked to the tourism sector, to those workers who are engaged in activities linked to fairs and popular festivals. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you have also voted no. We have proposed that self-employed people who recommence after stopping to lower the blind by the pandemic can benefit from a flat rate of EUR 60 per month. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos and PSOE, you have voted no. As everyone can see at this point, I continue to give the reason to Minister Montero. Indeed, in the area of budgets it is what and not with whom. That's his picture, not the proposals to help autonomous and small and medium-sized enterprises in Spain. They've got a wonderful portrait left, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, I wasn't going to start like this, but listening to the spokespersons of Citizens, PP and VOX I understand that they don't like these budgets. I think it is one of the greatest achievements of these budgets: that you do not like them. To the PP, because they are the leaders of the no, the worst opposition that any government has had in this pandemic, not here but in Europe and in the world. To VOX, I am surprised today that you are here, because you are not coming to work, you have not tabled any amendments; neither have you come to the Committees on Budgets. Today they come here because there is plenary, and the same thing they want them to do to upload it to social media, with those desires that they always have to make possible influencers. Citizens continue to say with whom this Government can agree these budgets and with whom or not. Lords of Citizens, this government deals with the budgets with whom it wants, indeed, and you are the least able to give lessons to this government, since you agree with the ultra-right and neo-fascism in Andalusia, Murcia and Madrid. [[rumors]] Do not give lessons from whom we have agreed in this government, Lords of Citizens. [[Applauds]] I leave it here because this is a serious debate about our pension system, so important. This serious debate must necessarily start from an analysis of recent developments in our regulatory framework and our labour relations system. Just over eight years ago - we all remember it and we have it very recorded - in 2012, when you began to rule - and here I mean both PP and the ladies of VOX, because at that time they were on the PP bench or in their chiringuitos - Mr. Mariano Rajoy at the same time of his investiture went to the country and told us that to get out of the crisis we would have to shed blood, sweat and tears. Of course, it referred to the blood, sweat and tears of the workers of this country, of the pensioners, of the autonomous and autonomous and of the small enterprises; because for the big companies, the 'chiringuiters' like Mr Abascal, for the financial pirates of the socimis or for the great tax evaders who legalized Mr Montoro, all were facilities. And so, neither short nor lazy he put himself to work and in a short time, completely ignoring the social dialogue and the framework of the Toledo Pact - today rehabilitated - he issued three fundamental norms. One, the 2012 labour reform, which served to lay off cheaply, destroy collective bargaining, make part-time and temporary hiring as much as possible, and thus destroyed millions of quality jobs at low cost to replace them with temporary hirings of maximum flexibility. In Mr Rajoy's second term he made up the unemployment with millions of temporary contracts, nine out of ten new contracts in 2017 were temporary and the proliferation, which we are now experiencing, of false self-employed people; and the phenomenon of poor workers spread, employment was created, but the volume of social security contributions was constantly falling. How is this possible? Because 16% of the employed population was below the poverty line. At the same time, you facilitated the processing of EREs, so that companies could destroy thousands of jobs without any control by the labour authority. The second is Royal Decree 20/2012 of 13 July. With this omnibus rule, in addition to dispatching the collective bargaining of the public sector and cutting aid to the dependency, they put a substantial cut in the unemployment protection system, which we still suffer today, as I recall. They limited the amount of the benefit to 175% of Iprem and charged the allowance for over fifty-two years. The third, Act 23/2013 of 23 December 2013 on pensions. With this rule, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and VOX, then with an absolute majority and completely ignoring the existence of the Toledo Pact Commission, they frozen the amount of public pensions and introduced the sustainability factor, to cut the pension of future pensioners, measures that fortunately we have managed not to enter into force and, moreover, which I hope we will be able to repeal sooner than later. These rules very well define their recipe against the crisis and run counter to the prescriptions that the current Government is trying to implement. ERE and cheap layoff against ERTE, wage devaluation and bet for work without rights of false self-employed against the raising of the interprofessional minimum wage, the bet for work with rights agreed in the social dialogue. A social dialogue of which our Minister of Labour, Yolanda Díaz, known as the minister of the agreement - yes - shows and flag, which reaches agreements with trade unions and employers, while you no longer represent the entrepreneurs of this country. [[Rumors]] Another is the destruction of the unemployment protection system in the face of extraordinary efforts to pay the unemployment payroll to millions of businesses and workers, and the creation of the universal minimum vital income benefit so as not to leave anyone behind. You eroded the pension system and created a climate of panic about its viability; we strongly bet on sustaining the system and creating a climate of pension confidence, because those pensioners, those pensioners, were the ones who kept their pensions for many of the families in our country. It is therefore clear that this Government takes seriously what is set out in article 50 of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, today we leave behind black and white, black and white, darkness and austerity recipes to get out of the crisis. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u53	Mrs. Velarde, I'm sorry, but your time is up. Thank you very much, Mrs. Velarde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sáez Alonso-Muñumer has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget we are debating this week in plenary is not credible as a whole, nor is it in reference to the main sections of the Social Security budget, such as pensions and social contributions. First, contributions income is not credible; social contributions income of EUR 125 144 million is budgeted, of which EUR 96 591 million corresponds to the general scheme, which is not credible; and it is not credible if we compare it with the amount of net collection in 2019. Budgeted by the Government a higher collection of 1502 million euros in 2021 over the year 2019, an increase of 1.58%, when the average unemployment figure in 2019 stood at 14%, while an average unemployment rate is estimated in the year 2021 of 17%; when the employed population is less than almost 800 000 people to the existing one at the end of 2019; when there is ERTE that has been extended until 31 January 2021, and I hope that they will spread further, as the social partners are claiming it. An increase in the general net collection scheme recorded in 2019 and a decrease of 9,7 % in contributions from the autonomous scheme, from EUR 11 185 million to EUR 10 095 million in 2021, is budgeted. Even so, the Association of Self-Employers has stated that we are faced with outdated and outdated budgets before being approved, as they do not have the consequences of the second wave of the pandemic. It mentions ATA that 300 000 self-employed have already closed, another 300 000 will do so by the end of the year and another 400 000 are in a complicated situation and will not endure much longer. Secondly, they are budgets that do not enhance job creation. It is truly amazing that we do not find in these budgets, except in specific cases, reductions in business contributions in contributions and thus help companies to create or maintain employment. It is incredible that in a country with an unemployment rate of 16.3%, twice the average unemployment rate in the euro area countries, employment is one of the major absentees in these budgets. The unemployment rate in Spain is almost twice as high as before the 2008 crisis, which is not the case in the euro area countries. Employment is not recovered, but the contribution bases are growing, with an increase of 26 % in the maximum bases and 40 % in the minimum ones since 2011 and, in the meantime, the average salary of the Spaniards has only been 7,92 %. Third, passive classes will increase their pension by 0.9 %. We are talking about a budget of more than EUR 17 billion, an increase of 4.58 % over 2020. It is curious to see, when it comes to pension expenditure on GDP, that passive class pensions are not considered. We have several doubts about passive classes: Why are 22 new pensions to be paid to former ministers and assimilated? Why are 1132 new exceptional pensions and pensions for non-official staff, a 379 % increase over 2020? Fourthly, pensions depend on the financial support of the central administration. It is budgeted in an increase of 3% in contributory pensions and of 3.6% in non-contributory pensions for the financial year 2020, increases only possible thanks to two items, the increase of the transfers of the State, which amount to 31,177 million euros, 83 % higher than that recorded in the year 2020, and the maintenance of the loans of the State, which amount to 13,830 million euros. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that in order to finance these transfers and loans, the State has to issue debt, since the planned deficit for 2021 amounts to 7.7% of GDP, a figure of EUR 93 400 million. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, 93,400 million euros. They are the largest debt issues in a country with a public debt amounting to 1.3 billion, with B, of euros, 114% of GDP, the largest debt issues when the per capita debt in Spain is already 27 600 euros, truly incredible. By the way, let us remember that the AIReF has influenced that the evolution of pension spending is somewhat higher in the estimate made by its body. - They don't believe the AIReF either. Question: Can public accounts ensure the level of transfers in the future? The answer is no and there are two reasons: we have a high level of public debt that can reach 120% of GDP by the end of 2021, and we have a structural deficit in the public accounts that the European Commission places at 5.2% of GDP by the end of 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, budgeting is an exercise of responsibility, it is to be aware of the importance of setting realistic targets and knowing that, behind a number of issues, there has to be responsible management; budgeting well means learning from past mistakes, learning that the high public deficits of 2009 and 2010 caused the PSOE to freeze pensions to more than 6 million Spaniards in 2011 and cut the salary of public employees by 5%; learning implies understanding that the lack of budgetary discipline has consequences - as the Greeks, Portuguese and Irish well know, who saw their pensions cut by between 15% and 40% -; budgeting well means being sensible and realistic, because otherwise our country will lose credibility, it will be unattractive to investors, it will damage the financing capacity of companies, it will cause growth potential to suffer and it will damage job creation...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Saez. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, put on the floor.-Pause.-A cleaning-up worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mr Cabezón Casas has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u56	Thank you very much, President. They will allow me to begin this speech by answering Mrs Velarde about the three lies she has said here in the rostrum this afternoon. He said that they leave behind politics in black and white and what a coincidence that the three spokesmen who have spoken - you yourself, the spokesman for Bildu and the spokesman for the Socialist Group - come from black and white. First lie. The second one talks about financial pirates. With financial pirates I suppose you will refer to Mr Echenique, convicted of defrauding Social Security, because he has a firm conviction and has to pay 11,400 euros for frauding Social Security. [[Applauds]] And as for the third lie, he says that the Minister of Labour is the minister of the agreement. The minister, then Mrs. Díaz, dynamized the Toledo Pact in February 2019, and now becomes the minister of the agreement. Ironies of fate. How we have changed, gentlemen of Podemos! How we've changed! And now, that deal they left in February 2019, they've had to eat it with potatoes at the Toledo Pact meeting we signed last week. How we've changed! [[Applauds]] We have the worst government at the worst, and now, if you do not rectify and approve some of the amendments, we will have the worst budget at the worst. Today we have 3 800 000 unemployed, 650 000 more than a year ago; we have 91 000 companies less than a year ago, 600 000 workers still in ERTE and 1 600 000 self-employed on the loose rope, claiming some benefit. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that over the past year we have 100,000 young people and 330,000 women who have been unemployed. These data are very worrying for the sustainability and balance of our pension system and, in view of these data, what do you offer? They offer an increase in taxes - we are the only country in the European Union that raises taxes - more costs for hiring, raising workers' contributions and self-employed contributions up to 24 euros a month, and uncertainty regarding labour legislation with the ongoing debate on the repeal of labour reform, labour reform that I would like to remind you that generated 2 million jobs in this country. You therefore propose to us a budget that generates more uncertainties than certainties and more doubts than confidence, in short, a totally unrealistic budget. Gentlemen of the Government, do you consider that with this data, that with this background it is possible to increase income from social contributions? Do you know what we collected in 2018 for social contributions? Some EUR 115 billion. Do you know what we collect in 2019, historical year - I repeat, historical year - in collection? EUR 124 billion. Do you know how long we've been in 2020? 4% less in collection. A hole of EUR 8 billion is expected for this year. Do you know what they budget for this exercise? That's EUR 125 billion. There's nothing there. Do you know what this means? About 1 billion more than in the past year, 10 billion more than in 2018 and about 8 billion more than in this year. Do you consider these to be credible budgets? Do you consider these to be realistic budgets? Let me tell you that this is political fiction, but it is not that the People's Party or a Member of the People's Party says it, but that even the Socialist Party ministers themselves say it: Calvin admits to investors the risk of not recovering the lost jobs. [[reading several press headlines]] The International Monetary Fund warns that the virus aggravates Spain's economic inequality and calls for increasing the benefit of the unemployed. The second wave puts recovery at risk and delays pre-COVID levels until 2023. But you to your own, to the totally unreal budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, pension policy accounts for almost EUR 4 out of 10 of the budget, more than EUR 172 billion, with an increase of 4.3%. That is why we have tabled amendments, to move the demands of the Toledo Pact, the demands of the agreement to these budgets, budgets which are characterised by three contributions to social security: to sustain the system in the medium and long term EUR 13 billion - some EUR 9 billion remains to be defined, to what improper expenditure we are going to allocate - a loan of EUR 13.8 billion in the short term - what are the times when socialists criticized and opposed these loans - and the revaluation of pensions. - I would like to recall that the last Government that froze the pensions was the Government of the Socialist Party with the affirmative vote of Pedro Sánchez on 12 May 2010. Today you are proposing a revaluation of 0.9 %, but you know very well that this is not what is agreed in the Toledo Pact. This is not what we have agreed on in the Toledo Pact, but it is an equivalent percentage that is not the decision we have taken in the Toledo Pact. You know it and it's not the same. Today pensioners want to know what they're going to do in case we have a negative CPI. Will pensions be lowered to pensioners if there is a negative CPI? Are you going to apply what Minister Escriva calls window periods? It is a nice expression, gentlemen of the government, to hide their intentions, which are nothing more than to average between the years that go up and the years that go down to deceive the pensioners. The People's Party's commitment to the pension system and its sustainability is unquestionable, aware that Social Security is the State's main social protection system. There is one thing we cannot ignore and it seems that the Government has forgotten, that the guarantee of the pension system goes hand in hand with employment. Since Sánchez ruled there has been more unemployment, less women working, an increase in youth unemployment, less self-reliant, less social security, more poverty, less transparency, less freedom, less legal security and more social unrest. In short, more inequality, which is what even the left-wing newspapers transport every day in the media. [[Showing a press clipping]] More inequality with socialist governments. I conclude, Madam President, by talking about the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group on supplementary systems. I regret that they have not been able to go ahead because of the lack of work of certain groups which did not appear by the Commission, such as the VOX Parliamentary Group - because they did not appear and because they did not vote, the Spanish had not been able to go ahead with the deductions they hoped to have in their individual savings systems - and also because they were unable to comply with the Socialist Group's agreements, since they were unable to maintain for a week the agreements of the Toledo Pact to gradually make the deductions from the individual plans.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u57	Mr. Head, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Cabezón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u60	Good afternoon, President, thank you very much. From the interventions of the People's Group and VOX it is clear to me what their commitment is: If they were ruling they would not repeal the 2013 pension reform. These budgets, despite the Popular and VOX Parliamentary Group, are rigorous and generate certainty and security in the public pension system. They mark one before and one after in the reforms of cuts that the People's Party with its absolute majority made in 2012 and 2013, reforms that flattened and reduced pensions. These budgets reflect the glove laid out by the Toledo Pact in the sense that they reflect the consensus - although today it seems that there was no consensus - and, of course, they guarantee the sustainability of the present and future public pension system. These budgets for 2021 therefore comply with the mandate of the recent agreement of the Toledo Pact adopted in this plenary by a large majority. That is right, two important steps are taken to end the deficit in 2023 and the guarantee of purchasing power is recovered. The best news for Citizenship: certainty and security. This is despite the serious health, economic and social context of the COVID crisis. It seems that the right does not just understand that at this moment the context determines this situation, that it is short-term and that it is not eternal, beyond what I think they would like. These budgets contain the unequivocal political will that the coalition government will make the social security system sustainable today and in the future. What would you have done? Did they have a pension cut? Well, I think so, for the comments and statements you have made in this rostrum. Two are the first important steps: a first step, a transfer of EUR 31 177 million, an increase of 83.3%, the largest transfer in history; a second step, very clear for millions of pensioners and for all citizens, more than 47 million people: ensuring the rise of pensions in relation to the CPI. The CPI has come to stay. Pensions will improve purchasing power by 0.9, the CPI, and the minimums double, as will be done with minimum living income. This is a message of tranquillity for the more than 47 million Spanish and Spanish citizens and for the 9.5 million pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, indexing the CPI to pensions has been one of the demands of all these sectors, mainly that of pensioners, and these General State Budgets respond to this, certainty and confidence. On the income side, there is a significant increase, 97% of total social security budgets, by contributions. They plan a prudent and adjusted forecast. Non-financial revenue budgets grow by 13,6 %; a rigorous forecast based on 2019 collection. And we deny the largest when they claim that these budgets are wet paper or are unbelievable. I would say that instead of reading the economic result of 2019 diagonally, it deepens on how these revenues have behaved. There has been one before and one after 2019. The increase of the interprofessional minimum wage by 22% and the recovery of the contribution of non-professional caregivers are measures that this government implemented throughout 2019 and that have achieved a historical record - indeed, Mr Cabezón - almost 8%. The forecast of income is obviously influenced by the recovery of the expected gross domestic product by 2021, in contrast to the expected decrease by 2020, for example due to the exemption of ERT quotas or the special scheme for self-employed workers. These budgets are based on the positive, cautious developments in 2019 data and, of course, taking into account this improved collection. I will mention to you that membership has a positive behavior despite the so complicated situation. The labour market - and that is what we all agree on - is key to the sustainability of the system. As I said, the policies implemented during 2019, the improvement of wages and the improvement of the labour market lead to an improvement of the contribution. Neither the Socialist Group nor the coalition Government intend to give up. It is therefore a prudent forecast, reflecting economic and employment recovery. Membership data, as I said, confirm this recovery from lost employment in the first weeks of the pandemic. On the other hand, I again highlight the transfer of €31 177 million, a transfer that reflects recommendation 1 of the Toledo Pact: the medium- and long-term sustainability of the system. It is a full compliance with the recommendations contained in the Toledo Pact. We can state quite clearly, this time yes, that it has begun to turn the ship of the social security system. We have finally left behind the reforms of the People's Party in 2012 and 2013 in pensions. Here I would ask the members of the People's Party a question: will they support the reform of Article 58 in order to reconnect pensions with the CPI? I want to think so. As far as expenditure is concerned - and I am finishing up - we have a moderate increase in expenditure of 4%. The transfers received from the General Budgets of the State are intended to provide for, repair and compensate expenditure arising from the occurrence of certain contingencies, such as - I have already said - contributory pensions, 0.9 and 1.8 - the recommendation of the Toledo Pact - double the salary for non-contributory pensions. I believe that today no one questions the social and economic significance of guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensioners, a decisive step in sustaining the present and the future of our public pension system. And I'm done. The Socialist Group will support these General State Budgets, as it cannot otherwise be, because they respond to these recommendations of the Toledo Pact and, despite some - despite the right and the right - today the guarantee of a sustainable pension system and decent and sufficient pensions is blacked out. The Socialist Group is proud of these General State Budgets; the right would have to think about it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Title V and Section 06, Public debt We continue with the debate on Title V and Section 06, Public Debt. In defence of amendments, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u62	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist spokesman in the Committee on Budgets told us about the confidence that will give the economy the approval of these budgets, and he is right, indeed, but more confidence would bring good budgets, because the certainties about the erroneous forecasts and the wrong results of these that they have presented are a majority opinion of all the institutions that have analysed them, and ours too. He also lacked the truth; I don't want to think he was lying constantly, I can but I don't want to. He told us that in 2017 and 2018 we raised the debt and lowered the expenditure; false. There was an increase in expenditure on both budgets and in the implementation of budgets as well. Debt was increased because we still had to help the definitive recovery of economic activity, but without forgetting fiscal consolidation, reducing debt over GDP and continuing with the deficit reduction until it was left below 3% and exiting the excessive deficit procedure of the European Union, and I remind you that 2019 closed again about 3% and that if it had not been for the pandemic we would surely have returned to the procedure. He also told us that we were criticizing the increase in expenses; false. We know in the situation in which we are and that the State must support people and economic sectors, but we disagree in a number of things. Firstly, we can both reduce superfluous expenditure and make the Administration more efficient to compensate for the increase in expenditure; secondly, we can improve collection by encouraging economic activity by reducing some taxes, and thirdly, we have differences on which items to increase. You think that with a rise in spending it's already done, you use it in many of your arguments, but it's not about going up for going up, it's about going up for something, and that something never explains it to us. In fact, we do know that the rise in spending has two negative consequences: deficit and debt. He also said that budgets increase tax revenues; false. They increase taxes, but the collection will drop dramatically. If anything, they increase income forecasts - that's what I grant you - but no one - I repeat, no one - believes them. And one added problem is that this rise in taxes will negatively affect economic activity and employment generation, and I hope they will not be ashamed to pull out the year 2012. I remind you again that you left the government and the country because you had no idea how to get out of the abyss in which we were - or idea had - to such an extent that you preferred us to rule, with what you think of us. [[Rumors]] The spokesman said again that we increased the debt from 60 to 100 % to heal the banks; false. It's not the first time I've heard it; I don't know if they have any problems with number 69, which they don't want to pronounce, but it's that 69 is the percentage with which the debt was closed in 2011, and I've already explained to you on a couple of occasions that on the part of the rest of the debt the Socialist government was responsible for all the hidden debts that we had to cover when we arrived at the government and the inertia of the economic disaster that we had to recover. At least 10% to 15% of the rest, i.e. up to 80% or 85% of GDP debt, is socialist responsibility; the rest, 15%, is the responsibility of the people's government. And the crux of the matter is why you did it and why we did it. That debt you generated didn't work at all, the economy continued to destroy itself and we are very much afraid that you will now go the same way; at least understand that we doubt you very much. The Spaniards, with a government of the People's Party, managed to regain economic activity and almost all the jobs destroyed. Putting Spain at the head of growth was a model for many countries, even for you, as is stated in the economic and financial report of these budgets. If we leave the Spaniards and offer them opportunities, they always answer; look at the case of the Community of Madrid: with freedom, success assured. You all want to intervene and ban, and so this country doesn't work. There are two models, yours and ours. The Spaniards will have to choose in the next elections between their model of deficit and debt generation, which seeks that many Spaniards live from the state, the better, and the model of the People's Party, the only possible alternative to their government; between general State budgets such as these - ideological budgets - or those that we would have made, that they would have sought that economic activity would generate employment and that this activity and employment would generate sufficient income to reduce debt, to keep Spain safe and to cover the welfare state sufficiently. I believe, Mr Socialists, that the truth is missing because these budgets are poorly defended and need any argument. And I want to tell you that I would have liked a more serious debate with you on public debt; it is an important enough issue for us to have a debate on it, but I see that it will be impossible with this Government and the groups that support it, because I repeat it here again: Article 11.3 of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, which allows the State and the autonomous communities to fail to comply with fiscal rules in certain situations - when they have been voted on by the majority of Congress, as it has been in this case -; it also says that this temporary deviation cannot jeopardize fiscal sustainability in the medium term, and is being put into effect; it also says that in this case a rebalancing plan, which they have not done, must be approved, and Article 23 says that the rebalancing plans will be presented, after the IREF report, within a maximum period of one month, that they must be approved within a maximum period of two months and that they must be implemented within a maximum period of three months; not when the pandemic, as you say, they do not now have the obligation to do so. They have many ministries, which are also full of advisers, to be able to do so. I'm done, President. Do you really think you can't do better than these budgets? If we are the worst in Europe and the OECD! That is what all the forecasts for 2020 and 2021 estimate. I wish they had opened themselves up to negotiating budgets with us, because those who present are not the ones who need Spain and our public debt would appreciate it. I support our amendment, which has not been vetoed by the Government or by this Committee on Budgets and which seeks only transparency. I hope you support her. [[The Lord]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u63	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor on the joint motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u64	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Thank you, President. Good afternoon of budget debate, which is going to be long and will last all week. Amador Fernández-Savater, a philosopher who has just produced a book entitled Living and ruling, begins the prologue with the idea of impotence. He describes the idea of impotence linked to post-15M institutional policy; he speaks of impotence in relation to the fact that from the institution one cannot stop the economic powers, those that no one chooses in the ballot box, but who decide much more than what we decide here, in this plenary; he speaks of impotence in relation to the inability or difficulty of transforming from institutional policy and the impotence that words and gestures are increasingly empty when they enter through these doors. He talks about the 15-M and the cycle that surely ends with this government, some will say. We apply the idea and all the intellectual journey that he makes in the prologue of his book to the current situation, in relation to the budgets, the Government and the situation that we live in our country. As far as budgets are concerned, from an economic and social analysis budgets are fine. The truth is that the opinion has been improved after committee: there are amendments that slightly improve the initial proposal and even create a women's institute, create citizens' assemblies with climate change issues, make minimal gestures in taxation, increase spending. This is fine, but it would be fine if the situation were normal, and the situation is not normal, the situation is totally exceptional by COVID, by the economic crisis and by the situation we have in our country. COVID is inserted into the cyclical crises that capitalism has. In fact, experts already in 2017 - and when I say experts I'm talking about the World Bank, which is not susceptible to being either communist or very left-wing-speaking about this year's crisis due to issues of over-indebtedness and over-production. Well, the crisis of COVID overlaps, let's say, with the crisis already planned and already inserted in the normal cycle of capitalism, but obviously it multiplies the impact, not only geographically, but in all stages of income. From 2009 to 2017, according to ILO data, popular classes have lost more than €64 billion. But it is not only the COVID that joins the crisis that was already planned, but there is also a debt problem. Only the right has said this; we will do an analysis from the left of the debt problem, because it is a problem. Debt continues to grow, in fact, the last ten years have multiplied, as has private debt, which has also not stopped growing. Why is debt a problem from a left-wing and transformative perspective? Because debt has to be paid; debt involves cuts, privatization, austerity. And we return to the data, to the data of a Spanish state broken by the crisis: Intermón Oxfam predicts 11 million poor in the Spanish state by the crisis of COVID and the ILO says that 12% of the world's workers are poor. That's why we're talking about impotence, because you don't change the model, and if you don't change the model, what you're doing is you're freaking out the problem. Neither in the pandemic are you capable of making a public pharmaceutical, nor in the pandemic are you capable of talking about public banking, nor in the midst of a global pandemic are you capable of stopping evictions, and this is a problem, because the situation is exceptional and because humble people need left-wing people in institutional politics. I see that PSOE people talk and look at the phones. Many people trust you as a left-wing party and the truth is that humble people need left-wing people in institutions, but these people pay private mutuals, their children go to private schools and when they run out of work, they pull family fortunes. Humbly people need to feel brave, left-wing people in these seats who are doing left-wing politics, and these are not these budgets. We changed the term of analysis and moved from a more economic and social analysis to an analysis of the situation in our country. The independence process has been characterized by the role of civil society. We can talk about October 1st, about the answer to the sentences of the trial or of a lot of mobilizations that we have had in our country, and the truth is that these budgets also generate impotence; it is impossible to see how a dialogue table, which was created thanks to the people who asked for 'Spain, sit and talk', has served to close the demands of civil society in the offices. We feel powerless to see the dialogue table force normality in a situation of exceptionality because the independence prisoners rise; in fact, there are three more people this week who are going to go to prison for participating in independence mobilizations, by the way - we must say - with a particular accusation from the Generalitat de Catalunya, with a councillor presided over by Junts per Catalunya. We feel impotence because forcing normality in terms of exceptionality is conservative, retrograde and perverse. There is no referendum, there is an increase in prisoners, there is no amnesty and, in addition, there is the music from the fish to the cove, the music of the eighties, when Mr Pujol came in here and came to negotiate infrastructures, roads and some investments. We are back in the same music, but our country has changed a lot, the situation is no longer that of the eighties and we believe that people expected the independence parties to respond to this new situation. We also feel powerless in relation to the fact that the Government of Progress has done nothing and powerless also in relation to the comrades of the Catalan independenceists, but also of the rest of the State. Fernández-Savater - I finish, president - ends the prologue by saying that in the face of impotence we have to build new impossibles. We believe that the situation in Catalonia is very difficult, it is a situation of check - as we would say in chess - but it is time for the new impossibles, not to support the regime. There are always alternatives, comrades, there are always alternatives.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u65	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u66	Thank you, President. The time has come to talk about public debt, an issue on which, according to some Member of the Socialist Group, we are not entitled to speak because, as was said in the Commission with a total lack of democratic talent, we had not tabled amendments and could therefore not talk about public debt. Well, today I say to your lordship of the PSOE from this rostrum that, after presenting 320 amendments to these budgets, of which more than 60 have been vetoed indiscriminately by this government, it is not up to you or anyone in the Socialist Party to tell us what matters we can talk about and what matters we can't. By entering fully into financial and public debt operations, the Budget Act itself contains a number of points which include situations that may lead to deviations from the Government's forecasts. I am very afraid that all these assumptions will be fulfilled, and this concerns my parliamentary group, Citizens, and me personally, but it also concerns the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, the Bank of Spain and even the European Union. I do not know what solution the Government proposes to these very justified concerns; you will also tell the European Union, the AIReF and the Bank of Spain that they are not entitled to talk about it. All these agencies agree on the same thing: they believe that the government's forecasts are overly optimistic and we can find ourselves with a major deviation and a huge level of deficit and debt during the year 2021. From my parliamentary group and I believe that from almost the entire opposition we understand that these budgets have to be expansive to mitigate the effects of the pandemic. We have to get out of the rescue of all those families and companies that urgently need help to get ahead, of course we do, but we are afraid that the increase in spending they propose in these budgets will not even serve that, because the Government has chosen to allocate our resources to public policies that have not even been evaluated; to policies that increase public spending in the long term and structurally, compromising future spending that we do not know how they will be paid; to policies that have not taken into account the efficiency criteria, and to policies that - as it could not otherwise be with this Government - have not been raised in a context of fiscal consolidation that makes the best use of our public resources. In short, ladies and gentlemen, they have preferred to share the money with Rufián and Otegi rather than to push forward a plan to the German, as we asked of them in Citizens, to cover the expenses of small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people who are seriously threatened by their survival. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, public spending has to be translated into strategic investments, not waste or patching, and you have not addressed one of the reforms that this country needs in these budgets. The opposition groups - I repeat - understand the exceptionality of the moment. And what are you doing? To oppose the opposition. And now, ladies and gentlemen, with European funds we have a unique opportunity to put forward a new model of country, but we are afraid that we will again let the moment pass and lose the opportunity again. Gentlemen of the Government, you are going to the contrary. The ambition must be put in public policies, not in personal interests. Following the analysis of this title, we have to address the issue of financial operations related to the Institute of Official Credit, the ICO, or the Fund for Internationalisation, the FIEM. We want to highlight the worrying situation in which this Government has put small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people behind the announcement of the extension of the repayment periods and the lack of ICO credits. We also want to point out that from Citizens we have asked for transparency with regard to the granting of loans backed by ICO, information that has not been provided to us and that, as far as we know, it has not been evaluated in order to really know the scope of this measure. So, ladies and gentlemen, these aspects create much more doubts than certainties. We are concerned about the warnings of the supervisory bodies. We are concerned that your predictions are far from reality. In addition, we are extremely concerned that you have not had the slightest interest in meeting not the forecasts that Europe tells us and advises us, but that you have wasted much more time trying to reform things to please your partners than in completing the reformist state agenda that can make us comply with Europe. And I give you an example, you have had time to run, study and process the reform of the crime of sedition tailored to the people condemned for a coup d'état, but you have not found a single minute to put forward reforms in line with the model of work, digitisation or depoliticisation of job search services that the European Union has asked us to do. So, since it couldn't be otherwise, I'm going to give Ms. Montero the reason again. Mrs Montero, you are still right: on budgetary matters it is what and not with whom. That is why we will vote not at this point, because we need a public policy assessment and an audit of spending and because we need investments to be put in strategic sectors and not in the strategies of Ivan Redondo. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u68	Thank you, President. Are we in favour of the principle of budgetary balance? We are certainly in favour. Is it good that a country has a contained debt, a moderate debt? No doubt it's good. And if these principles are good, why is there a debate on this issue? For, basically, there is a debate because any principle, however good it may be, when it comes out of its context and leads to fanaticism and dogmatism becomes counterproductive. And this is one of the clearest cases. Is it good that we have a debt contained, as I was saying? For most families in this country practice the principle of budgetary balance, practice the principle of austerity, and even working families, as I have been raised in, practice radically the principle of austerity, even the principle of frugality. We made and make a frugal life, no excesses, no expense, no waste, no luxuries. That is how this country should work, from those principles. Do these principles suppose that we should not be in debt? Let's look at what most working families in this country do. What do they do? They are indebted, and they are deeply indebted. Here some people want to sell us the dogma that you can't have a debt above GDP. For most people in this country, the majority of working families, are in debt with mortgages that they would not be able to pay with all the income of a year. That is that they have a debt much higher than their GDP, they have a debt much higher than their annual income. Is that serious? No, it depends. It may or may not be serious, depending on what they do it for. If they do it to waste, if they do it to spend badly, it is serious; if they do not, it is not serious at all. Indebtedness is good. My students in class I usually ask: Is debt bad? And everyone answers me: yes, it's bad. But I tell you, it depends. If when you finish the race two or three of you come together and ask for a credit to carry on a professional activity, and another one stays at home without being in debt, those of you who are in debt are doing much better, much better. This fanaticism, this dogmatism that tries to apply the Spanish right in an absolutely fanatical way, in an obsessive and indiscriminate way, is absurd and makes no sense. That is, debt is not bad, it depends on what it is used for. In this country, an absolutely absurd, fanatical and dogmatic debt criterion has been applied; a principle that was not of austerity but of austerity, which is a completely different thing. That has been applied for more than a decade of real horror for southern Europe, of real misfortune for the whole of southern Europe. Europe has suffered a great deal more than it had to suffer, and Europe has not grown what it had to grow. They have been fanatically applied recipes that everyone knows today are wrong and applied by the International Monetary Fund - which forced us to apply them, although then the IMF itself has recognized that they are a real barbarity, a real aberration - and have practiced them international institutions that have forced us to apply them, like the European Central Bank itself. When are they going to apologize for all the barbarities they have generated, for all the sadness and suffering they have applied in Europe and for all those people who committed suicide, even in the good of it, in Greece? When are you going to apologize for all that madness you got us into for fanaticism? Because all principles, even the most correct, if they are taken out of context, if they are not tempered, if they are not moderated, if they are not balanced with other principles are a true barbarity. The obsession with zero debt is a real barbarity. Austericide is the opposite of austerity, the opposite of frugality; it is a totally fanatical and absurd way to apply cruel recipes with citizenship and to prevent the growth that could have had in a few years Europe. If that possible growth had been used wisely, today we would be facing this crisis under much better conditions, because we would not have had to make all those wild cuts we made and because we could have had a decent public sector. Unfortunately - and this is causing me enormous sadness - the right-wings of this country do not have a concept of the public; they do not have it, they have it less than Franco. There are rights here that claim Franco, or at least not criticise him, and yet they have a model that looks much more like that of Pinochet, which is authoritarianism in the political but in the economic free market. We do not need industrial policies or housing policies, if they had been here in Franco's time, the National Institute of Industry or the Social Institute of Housing would not have been created or anything like that. A lot of people believe in the wild market and save themselves who they can. This really seems sad to me, I think it takes a right to believe in the public. In France there is one and in other countries too. There is a right that believes in the public, that believes that the state has a role in the economy, that the economy cannot be a save who can. All this has generated us a lot of drama, a lot of suffering, a lot of pain during these years and, above all, it has left us at the feet of the horses, it has left us with mud feet to face a deep crisis like this. Because we don't have the education we had to have, we don't have the social services or the health we had to have to deal with this crisis. And who has faced her well? Those who had strong public services; who, while telling us that we had to put more expensive university fees so that people could not go to college because they could not pay it - like many families in this country - applied free university, as in Germany, from the first course and throughout the career and, in addition, also master's and doctorate, all free, one hundred percent. I mean, they were selling us one thing and they were just applying the opposite recipe. This crisis has been - in that it was perfectly right the 15M - a scam, a recomposition. We hope that the lesson of this crisis has been learned and that action will be taken. Frankly, I ask the right-wing bench and the right-wing parties to start thinking about this idea that the public is not something that needs to be ended and that not everything comes from the private, that the public sector has a role in the economy and that to save the situation in times of crisis like this, we must resort to the public sector and have a strong public sector and, also, to resort to debt, because the debt is for that. The Spanish working families, although most of them practice austerity and frugality in their lives, are indebted and indebted for what needs to be in debt, in order to get ahead and for tomorrow to be able to have greater economic autonomy. Let us learn from the people below, let us learn from the working families and from the people on foot. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Uriarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Manso Olivar has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u70	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. My party has left me a topic that is relatively simple to discuss. The truth is that I don't understand how the People's Party dares to make an amendment. Interest expenditure, which is section 06, will be $31,740 million. They can be diverted if the interest rates on the renovations that are practiced this year go up - which we do not expect to go up much - or if the deficit volumes - which we do expect - go up and, therefore, we have to issue some more debt. But in any case, it won't be a material game. Let's focus on that 32 billion. We've been spending 30 billion a year on interest - a five-year, 30 billion - for a five-year period. Every year, interest rates went up and we always paid the same because we were in debt. That is, we have not taken advantage - as the governor told us - of the six-year 2014-2019 to make a consolidation of public spending and to have reduced consumption in interest. We have spent on interest for the last five years of 153 billion. The staff costs of the Central State Administration were 84 000 in the same period, i.e. we spent 80% more on interest than on people. I'm going to change my speech a little bit, in view of the barbarities I've heard. The first is that the People's Party reduced the debt, but reduced it only in relative terms. It was you who practically missed that six-year-old who stood up to you by the governor, because five of those six years are yours. I very much like to be told about the elimination of superfluous spending, but remember that Mr Rajoy assumed deficit and debt as the most social democrat of all. On the other hand, the Joint Group talks about over-indebtedness as a problem and about hidden economic powers. Of course, if the hidden economic powers feed you and feed you because, remember, in republican Rome debt could reduce a free man to slavery, and you are reducing Spain to slavery in the markets. You who complain so much about the markets, but if you are the ones who feed them. [[Applauds]] I am very pleased to see that the group of subjects who confuse the movement with productivity is now dedicated to saying that it works, because half of the proposals I have heard you say to Mrs Muñoz today were our proposals that have been presented throughout this legislature. [[Applauds]] We are not against public debt, and I say this to Mr Podemos, who has spoken for the United Nations Group. I share almost everything you've explained, but you have several mistakes. First of all, you say that families are in debt several times over their income and that is the same as the state does when they are in debt above GDP. No, forgive me, it's that the GDP is not from the state. All GDP is not state, and you know it. Compare it, in any case, with the figure of the State's income, but not with GDP, because that alone shows the totalitarian bias that the whole left has, which they think the GDP is the State's income. No, GDP is not the income of the State, it is the income of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] In addition, families are not in debt for current expenditure, but this year we have a primary deficit of 64 billion. Of course, families are in debt, but then they're amortizing their debt. We are not against anyone, what we propose are reasonable volumes of debt. Do you know why the limit is 60%? Wouldn't it be better to be at 120 % as we are now, with low rates, than at 60 % with high rates? The receipt is lower now because in this - forgive me - size matters. The interest rate risk to which you submit to the public accounts, with a gross indebtedness of 1.9 million at the end of the financial year and 2 billion at the end of the next financial year, makes Spain's accounts extremely fragile. Any movement of interest rates will make it impossible to bear the fixed costs of the State and that is the problem. [[Applauds]] We believe in the public, in fact we have come to save it from you, from your goodness. Do not doubt that we have come to save him from his goodness. [[Applauds]] Interest rates will go up, they'll go up. I am not worth what the Secretary-General of the Treasury said in the Committee on Budgets when he said that there are a number of papers that show that in the medium term the rates will not go up. All right, well, they won't go up in the medium term, but that's not the function of the Treasury. The Treasury's function is not to manage the state balance sheet as a portfolio manager. Public management is a management based on prudent rules and therefore cannot reach volumes of debt that generate - when the black swan occurs that will be the rise of the rates - an increase in the financial costs that is impossible to meet it. You're not managing your own money, you don't have a portfolio management mandate. That is why there is the 60% rule, because it is based on principles other than those used by a private manager. We cannot have these levels of debt. Interest rates will rise, first of all, because Merkel is asking for it, which seems to be a big deal, and secondly, because abnormally low interest rates, apart from the fact that for the only thing they have served is to increase the irresponsibility of politicians, generate a series of dysfunctions in the economy that will have to be corrected. In fact, Merkel is asking for it so that he can help all those people who save for old age and are finding that their savings are useless. Abnormally low rates have meant a redistribution from the humble classes to the institutions that are indebted, basically those that can go to capital markets. It is not you who are defending the humble, you confuse your good intentions with reality. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u71	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u72	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We all agree that these budgets are extraordinary because we have to face a social emergency, but I want to start my speech by saying that processing is also extraordinary and it is unheard of that the third parliamentary group in this House has been making havoc with the public for a week and, with all due respect, they have remained a panda of vague people. [[Applauds]] I imagine you're a little in a state of shock because Trump has lost the election or maybe because you don't have any alternatives. The amendments draw a budgetary alternative and you have nothing, you are genuinely empty of ideas, but full of hatred. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a budget for a paradigm shift that includes policies such as income, improving the purchasing power of civil servants and public employees. To this proposal of rent policies that the government brings us we say yes and you - and you have to know it the pensioners and the public employees - say no. These budgets propose a fiscal policy that includes progressive taxation of those who earn more than 200 000 euros – wow! – and also includes new taxes on banking corporations and digital corporations. To that proposal of the Government we say yes and you say no. You say that taxes for the working middle class and that progressive nothing. These budgets include a historical social investment: minimum vital income, dependency, purchase of vaccines and improvement of the primary health system. We say yes, because it is necessary, and people have to know. But you say no to the resources for vaccines and for the improvement of the health system and for the increase of scholarships, and you have to know it by people. This draft budget includes historical productive investments in infrastructure, renewable energy and digitisation. We say yes and you're saying no, and entrepreneurs have to know it too. You are not willing to give public resources for the change of productive model. This draft budget includes a very clear territorial policy of co-government, committed to the autonomous system: EUR 13 billion more extraordinary resources for the autonomous communities and for social policies. We say yes to the government, you say no. They then complain from the autonomies that they preside and cry, but they are saying that not to 13 billion euros more or to involve also the municipalities in the Next Generation EU. You say no and we say yes because it is necessary to involve the municipalities. With regard to financial policy, which is the one that brings us here today, Mrs Muñoz did not quite understand what I said. I said, to highlight the People's Party's change of speech, which bought from Mr Paniagua what he said in Montoro's budgets: If no one has tabled amendments to the amount of public debt, it is because the whole Congress agrees. That was said by Mr Paniagua in Montoro's budgets. And I said to him, "Man, I'll buy it for you, see if you complain." I bought you that argument, which is not enough, Mrs Muñoz, of course. And you know why? Because if you make an amendment to lower debt, you have to lower public spending, and you don't dare. It is the trick of the Almendruco, who dare not present it, neither you nor anyone. And I bought him another one of the foundations. He said: It is that it generates confidence the approval of the budgets. This generates even more confidence. [[Show a chart]] This is the risk premium, which has fallen 13 points over the past year. This means trust, Mrs. Muñoz, trust. And don't confuse yourself. There are many countries in the European Union with the same monetary policy as the European Central Bank which do not have 65 points, but 140. Mrs. Muñoz, don't be so simplistic, please. Mr Paniagua - another argument he was also buying - said: If we don't get in debt we have to spend less and lower public spending. Well, we do not cut public spending; on the contrary, we increase it, not as the People's Party did: EUR 15 billion in cuts. We have increased tax revenues by more than EUR 6 billion to cover financing needs. We have become more indebted, but we have achieved something that the People's Party did not achieve: successful transfers from the European Union, EUR 27 billion for productive investments over the next year. That is a triumph and it is the identity of this draft budget that we have to applaud and in relation to which you have no reason to say no. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u73	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Title VI We moved on to the debate on Title VI. For the defence of amendments, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing Title VI of the General State Budgets for 2021, which is key in these budgets, since the fiscal measures contained therein will be responsible for the collection of State revenue through taxes. These budgets are not the ones that would have made Citizens, since, in addition to starting from a scenario too optimistic, given the situation that our country is experiencing, it does not invest those overestimated items in solving the problems of the Spanish. How many times have we heard this government say it wouldn't raise taxes to the middle class? For in the initial plan of the General Budgets of the State the middle class was the first affected by the rise of taxes. If Citizens had not negotiated with the Government our amendment to the whole, the middle class, families, self-employed and small businesses could not have avoided the impact of the climbs they had planned. Up to five billion tax increases to the middle class have slowed down from my parliamentary group, Citizens. Stopping this tax hike was our minimum to start processing these budgets, our orange lines, and we got a lot. We have made sure that there is no 15% increase in corporate tax, that there is no increase in VAT in concerted, private and special education, that the increase in VAT does not materialise to private health, in half or more or less than a pandemic, that the IRPF does not rise between €60,000 and €30,000 and also paralyze the rise in diesel tax. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, who are coming today to teach us all lessons and have not tabled a single amendment, this is a useful policy for all Spaniards. What you have been doing during these three weeks is paid holidays for all the Spaniards, and that is why we have not come to this Congress. These climbs would have directly affected the middle class, for example, English schools, music or reinforcement classes; dentists and physiotherapists; transporters; families who needed these services every day for their children, and many SMEs, which are the basis of our business system, those who create wealth and employment and those who are severely affected by the restrictions. But in my parliamentary group we do not stop there and we have done serious, intensive and rigorous work, presenting 320 partial amendments aimed at improving the lives of families, self-employed people and businesses in our country; also strengthening our health and research and ensuring proper management of European funds aimed at always improving them. Within this title we have many amendments: to increase the deduction by investment in newly created enterprises, because at this time of crisis all aid is not enough for entrepreneurs; to ensure that the contributions paid to professional associations are income-deductible, especially for self-employed persons or civil guards who cannot yet deduct them; to ensure that taxpayers who carry out their own activity at home - now more than ever - can deduct 50% of the expenditure on supplies; to increase the contribution limits to social security plans from 2000 to EUR 4000 - this would, inter alia, benefit self-employed persons, who often only have these plans as a complement to their retirement, which in many cases is very low; to ensure that sugar-based drinks taxes do not come into force until 2022 and also that there are products that are not affected by their characteristics, and to combat the submerged economy and tax fraud, so that a report on the submerged economy is made available and that more staff are provided to the Ministry of Finance. All of our amendments were aimed at helping those sectors that are experiencing the worst, such as reducing tourism's VAT to 4% as long as mobility restrictions are in place. But - what was our surprise! - the government vetoed most of these amendments because they reduced the expected revenues. Did the government really think that Citizens would face the handling of budgets, the most important budgets in the history of democracy, without going in full to help these sectors most affected by the economic crisis, job creators and, ultimately, all Spaniards? Well, of course we have to spend. Some of the amendments tabled, those that were saved from the arbitrary vetoes of this Government, are still alive and from here I want to ask all parties to support them, because that will help so many more people who need it. Do not be accomplices to a government that has turned the most important budgets of democracy into one of the most difficult moments in our country into an exercise of political survival and lack of ambition. They are used as an instrument for other concessions and must be the support and lifesavers for many Spaniards. In Citizens, led by our president, Inés Arrimadas, and making a great effort of responsibility to all Spaniards, we have the hand to negotiate these budgets with a government that we did not like. In fact, we were the only ones who tried not to leave this government and to form a government through 221 with Citizens, the People's Party and the Socialist Party. But we could not abandon the Spaniards at such a time and, although we do not like this government - which we do not like - and although we do not like these budgets - which we do not like - we have to continue working and we cannot abandon the Spaniards or make them pay Mr Sánchez's mortgages. Saving the Spanish 5 billion in tax increases is already worth it. Getting the single health card is worth it. But the Government has chosen the path of economic folly and political separatism. It is your decision, as ours is not to abandon the citizens. They approve our amendments, which are still alive, because we are still in time to correct all these accounts and to throw a lifesaver at the Spaniards in the middle of this storm. It's in our hands. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u75	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. The tax policy measures proposed by the Government in these budgets seem to us to be clearly inadequate, especially if tax policy is to be redistributive and social justice. For example, the announcement that the property tax rate was increasing was finally reduced to assets over EUR 10 million, while the capacity to redistribute wealth was also reduced. We are proposing an increase of one point from EUR 1 million and, on the other hand, a reduction in VAT on basic products. Since the beginning of the health crisis, we have been proposing, for example, to reduce to zero the VAT on masks and protective equipment against the coronavirus. The government, after months without considering proposals like these, now decides to reduce it to 4%. It seems to us to be a step in the right direction, although it would logically be eliminated, because that would lessen the burden on many people with reduced incomes to purchase these products. Similarly, we propose a reduction to 4% of VAT for women's hygiene products or cultural products. A sector such as culture must be rescued, which is suffering intensely from the consequences of the economic and social crisis generated by the health emergency. Also, essential services, such as water, light or gas, need to be used for lack of resources, especially when winter approaches. We also propose to reduce the VAT on hairdressers to 10%. We also advocate deductions in the IRPF from the lower incomes that are damaged by having two payers; for example, all those who had to be in ERTE over the past few months and received a State subsidy or returning emigrants for the obligation to make the declaration of income in the event of having two payers and for lowering, in this case, the threshold of the declaration. We understand that these are just and reasonable proposals. They should therefore be taken into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u77	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u78	Thank you, President. Title VI, of tax rules, traditionally acquires some relevance in budgets. I would point out to you that, if it were strictly for this title, we would not support the budgets, because we have tabled a number of amendments, and some of them, according to other governments, have been vetoed, by a hypothetical decrease in income, and those that have remained alive have not been able to be transacted. Having said that, I would like to refer to some who are still alive, for whom I would ask for their support, and others who, at some point, will have to be solved if they are not resolved in this parliamentary procedure. The increase in VAT for sugary and sweetened drinks we amend, not to abolish it, not for the easy way, to leave it as it was, but to assimilate the treatment of sweetened and sweetened drinks given in Catalonia to the specific tax on this issue, so that - you will understand easily - the drunk yogurt ends up paying the same VAT as the spoon yogurt - it has no meaning whatsoever different - and that the 0.0 drinks do not tax as a refreshment in which this effort has not been made to reduce its sweetened content. Another issue that is also important to us is the change that is taking place in the registration tax on diesel vehicles, without touching the registration tax on diesel vehicles. There has been an amendment to the measures through a Community regulation, and that means that if we do not change the registration tax, with the current literality, there will be an increase in the registration tax on diesel vehicles, which at this particular moment is going to seriously harm the car industry, with all that comes from it. One amendment that has been made, I think, quite rightly, to deal with the problem wrongly in the exact form, is the amendment that is being made in the IAE, and that is that in the IAE of the large areas the heading of specialized trades should be clarified. This issue had generated some litigation between municipalities and businesses, but the change that is being made is going to produce very significant increases, and paradoxically more important the smaller the municipality, which is going to create difficulty in implementing these large areas in small municipalities, which is where they have a more important tractor effect. We therefore also believe that it should be amended. We have also repeatedly asked - and it has not been possible - that the change in pension schemes that we could reasonably understand in the medium term should have been phased out, and I explain myself. Those self-employed workers or self-employed workers who had a pension savings plan, which at the time could be replaced by the public fund, but who, as long as the public fund is not in place - and that will take two years - will not have an alternative, should have been given an alternative, a transitional one, so that they could maintain their contributions to the pension plans during this time. In any case, I support all the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u79	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The truth is that if the Socialist Group at some point in the process of this budget had had the slightest intention that it would be a good budget for all the Spaniards, good for Spain, with a little consistency with all that is involved in the current economic situation, the pandemic situation and the funds coming from Europe, it would obviously have accepted the offer of Citizens to make a budget in line with the reality of Spain, and we would be talking about an economic budget. But, of course, this is a political budget, and it is a political budget because its counterparts are political, which have nothing to do with the budget exercise. This afternoon he was already telling us the conditions that one of the parties - in this case, Euskal Herria Bildu - had put in place, and I understand that if no one from the Socialist Group, up to now, has come out to deny anything of the agreements he has said there, they must be genuine agreements. That is therefore a matter of concern, and a matter of great concern, because what have you said is behind this budget? For they have reached agreements, both in the investiture and now, for several things: the first, that the legislature lasts until the end. For what purpose? First of all, there are 53 votes here that are not going to make things easy for the Socialist Group; not their five, but their five plus 13 plus 35. That's what he said. And what else did he say? We must look at how the Spanish-Euskal Herria State conflict is corrected. He says that and no one in the Socialist Group is able to come out here and say four things. Listen, that the Spanish state-Euskal Herria conflict is the reason that led the terrorist band ETA to murder almost nine hundred people in Spain, that Basque Herria is an entelequia, that the Basque Autonomous Community is part of the Spanish state, as they say, that is, of Spain, and nobody is able to go out and say that. [[applause]] And when it comes to Euskal Herria, the Foral Community of Navarre is being included, against the will of the citizens of that community. And that's what no one's talking about here, or what? Isn't that democracy, what shipwrecks vote in every election? And he says it here, but what's serious is that he said it's a deal and no one's come here to deny it, huh? I hope that before the budget is over someone from the Socialist Group will reject that, because it is very serious, as serious as saying that the anti-terrorist policy has also been agreed... not anti-terrorist, penitentiary. Yes, Mr. Simancas, penitentiary, and don't laugh, because it's very serious. And we're seeing the payment, and we're seeing it these days. And while Minister Marlaska says that they have not changed budgets for prisoners, Euskal Herria Bildu's spokesman says that prison policy needs to be changed, and that it is agreed to change it. And nobody here has denied it, huh? That's why we'll understand it's true, unless someone denies it. Three things have been said; they have been said here and no one denies it. I am not going to talk about the part of Esquerra, which is known to all and which has also been said, as to want to sink into the Community of Madrid, because as it seems in the exercise of its powers that it is doing things in a decent way and that it is doing very well and that it is also doing very well for the economy, it seems that instead of copying the person who is doing it well, here what it is about, as Mrs Celá wants us to do with the Education Act, it is suspending everyone. No, in this case we don't suspend everyone. In the economy, yes, we suspend everyone, but in education we approve everyone; no matter whether it is done right or wrong. That is what we want to do now with the re-centralisation of the State requested by Esquerra. Therefore, this is a political budget, with political concessions, and as long as all the spokesmen of the Socialist Group can come out here to tell us that pensions... Let's see, whether the pensions are going to be paid, whether you or not, whether this budget or not. Pensions will be paid as you will pay for everything else, and as you will do all the public works of others. I again insist, if they had intended it to be good for Spain, they would have accepted the offer of Citizens, but, as they do not want that, but want something else, they have accepted the other offer, and then they will say that if one does not vote in favour of that budget it is that it is contrary to Spain. But does anyone in this country believe that Otegi is going to vote for a budget that is good for Spain? But do you really believe that someone in this country believes that? That's impossible! Therefore, you - the socialist spokesman said earlier - say yes to independence and we say no to independence. That is the summary: political concessions that cannot be assumed for a country like Spain. We hope that someone will finally say something and rectify that attitude. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u81	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u82	Good afternoon, again. Mr García, you accuse the government of making political budgets, and I suppose I have to give you reason, because they are political budgets. You use it with some disdain, you even said ideological, however, I do not know if you have realized that you have pronounced here one of the most ideological phrases I have ever heard. You defend Mrs Ayuso's actions in Madrid on a purely ideological issue, because objectively, objectively, these policies also harm Navarra. If you had a little more attachment to what you say you have, if you had managed to get out of that ideological cage in which you are, you might not have uttered a phrase, as I say, so, so political and so ideological. But already entering into the argument about tax rules, I am not going to extend much and I am going to try to focus the argument on the basis of who affects taxes in these budgets, whether to some classes or to others. I do not reveal any secrets if I say that the chapter now before us has inspired all kinds of complaints and scarecrows on the part of the right-wing groups. Perhaps the title that has most solidanitated them, and sees that lately they live in a permanent state of irritation: that if socialcommunist, that if we drown the Spaniards, that if Venezuela - Venezuela could not fail - finally, everything very constructive and without a hint of demagogic, in the usual line. But let's see, then, what's really behind this umpteenth berry. The company tax is harmonised for large business groups, limiting the exemptions for dividends and capital gains due to their participation in subsidiaries. At one point the property tax is increased for those assets of more than 10 million euros - middle class, in short, 10 million euros -. The IRPF raises 3 points for capital income above EUR 200 000 and 2 points for labour income above EUR 300 000. A minimum tax of 15% is set for the Socimi. Well, for the moment the workers and middle classes do not appear anywhere, rather they seem to refer to those sectors that have historically had much, but have contributed little to the collective well-being. Let us see, then, what has been able to motivate those allegations of asphyxiation to which the right constantly refer. Perhaps it has been the reduction of the deductions from private pension schemes - Mrs Martínez, from the Citizens' Group, has been insisting on this point - and yet only 8% of the 7.5 million Spaniards with a private pension plan will be affected, i.e. the remaining 92% of these people contribute EUR 2000 or less to their plans and will therefore see no change, none. Come on, there aren't any workers here or middle classes or anything. But let's keep going. Perhaps it concerns sugary drinks, the increase of which is designed primarily to address a public health problem, as the World Health Organization has warned on numerous occasions and, therefore, to try to reduce the obvious abuse we make as a society. Does this measure attack the middle and working classes? Does the State attack its fellow citizens when it raises taxes on tobacco, alcohol, gambling, or rather protects them by disincentives to bad habits? Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets are designed to meet the many needs of the middle and working classes. For this reason, the transfer of income that you will receive through reinforcement to the public services that contain these budgets has no match in our recent history. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, your friends are not middle class or hardworking, they have been running this country for decades. They run out of chiringuito and get nervous, I can understand that, but don't confuse, please, their courtship with Spain. The truth is that these budgets do not reflect any substantial change in Spanish tax policy, beyond correcting some imbalance, updating some fiscal figures and propelling towards an equality and progressive which our Constitution speaks of, by the way, in article 31. Moreover, I would venture to say that once these budgets have been approved, this will be one of the great challenges of the legislature that the Government will have ahead. Much remains to be done, taxes remain to be raised, and others remain to be lowered; there is indirect imposition which my parliamentary group has defended on numerous occasions. We have not been able to reach an agreement on this, but I trust that we can do so in future negotiations. I am talking about the VAT on women's hygiene products, veterinary services, hairdressers, etc. Basically, what we want is to standardize our tax system with the rest of Europe. This is the only way to sustain a welfare state; there is no other secret. But if you do not want it, I ask the right-wings to be honest and to tell us exactly what social and economic rights they have left, and so, at least, we will have a somewhat more honest debate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u83	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u84	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This government of social-communist court - yes, Mr Guijarro, of course - presents the gross coherence of its ideology before this House and all the Spaniards: to raise taxes to the upper classes, to the middle classes and to the lower ones too. It is the only policy that makes the left of any party: to spew your people to spend among your friends. Look, the high charges are fired and the eventual bribes are doubled. Poverty does not originate from the expenditure side, because it is not spent enough; poverty comes by depriving families and businesses of economic capacity, so that the State then spends on what is not needed. But, of course, you love the entrepreneurial state, which is an absolute proven failure. The prosperity of a nation comes from the hand of a lower fiscal burden for its citizens, an efficient allocation of taxes and a better use of the resources obtained with the effort of each taxpayer - economic freedom - and these budgets are just the opposite of prosperity. They are the vicious circle of raising taxes to ruin and then subsidize. The multiplier effect of this equation on GDP is zero. If you multiply something by zero, then that. You bring this draft budget with an increase of the taxes of 1862 million euros for the financial year 2021, and with an impact of 2135 million euros for the financial year 2022; long I trust, gentlemen of the government. These tax measures will not have the effect you expect in 2021 or 2022. Why? Because 2020's revenue delivery is very negative, the growth forecast is too optimistic, and the measures they propose will surely lead to a flight to the informal market and reduce consumption and investment: more poverty. The Fiscal Accountability Authority - and it has already removed the 'independent' after the change in budgetary implementation they have made to remove its independence - said in Congress that tax collection would be lower than expected by the government, both in 2020 and 2021, and with great difference: specifically, 5 points less, which will lead to a downward deviation of around 13 billion euros. Only by tax measures does this parliamentary group to which I represent reject the State General Budgets for 2021, because they punish families with lower and middle incomes with more indirect taxes. The Minister of Finance, for some, instead of lowering the VAT on masks in April - as she already asked for VOX by means of a non-law proposal - when the European Commission then informed the Government - like other countries - that Spain would not be punished for doing so, did not do so. And this is serious, because it has hidden itself from the Spaniards by making them believe that it was not possible, and it has waited seven months to announce it. They delay the competitiveness of companies by increasing their tax costs, leaving less room for job creation and investment, and penalise consumption and investment in the midst of the greatest known crisis in times of peace. The increase of the IRPF for high income implies a cash collection impact of just 144 million euros of the 6777 million that increases in budgetary accounting the income by IRPF. In other words, 2 % of the planned collection will be for high income. Guess who's gonna take the remaining 98%? The usual. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] The increase in rates on insurance premiums is a severe blow to middle- and low-income families and self-employed people, bearing in mind that they have to hire most of their insurance on a compulsory basis. At a time of global pandemic, you are increasing private health insurance, which greatly relieves public services, and you are increasing the costs to all drivers, to whom the price of diesel fuel is also being raised by emissions. Look, when you talk about tax harmonisation with Europe, you always do it on the rise side, but when the rest of the governments of the European countries are betting on lowering taxes, encouraging consumption and investment, then you are already free. So don't use the double measuring rod. Not to mention the Spanish self-employed, the most harmed by this government and for whom there is not a single effective aid: yes, ERTE and endorsements; bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. And its star measure: penalizing families, the hospitality industry and the manufacturing companies, through the rise of VAT to sugary and sweetened drinks, which will cause collateral damage to other sectors such as milking. Finally, I do not want to miss the opportunity to announce that VOX is not going to allow this government and its independentist hinges to skip all the rules to eliminate the margin of fiscal autonomy that the regions of Spain have. Sovereignist independence does not want financial independence, and demonstrates this with the endorsement of the Social-Communist Government for the approval of this amendment that the Spanish Constitution, the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and the Organic Act on the Financing of the Autonomous Communities are to the fore. To create a state tax within another tax transferred, and which is through the State's General Budgets, is nothing more than a reflection of the intentions of a government that contravenes the dictates of its own laws. And now I'm going to tell you one thing: if you wanted to raise taxes, the first thing you had to do was start by raising taxes to the three hundred and fifty Members who are here. Of the three hundred and fifty, three hundred and thirteen charge every month two thousand euros for those who do not tax. Destined to what? To pay extraordinary expenses. But it is that many of you live in Madrid and do not have extraordinary expenses, with which those two thousand euros do not really go to that for which they are supposed to be thought. Besides, they're fourteen paid. Two thousand euros per fourteen paid and three hundred and thirteen deputies, 8 750 000 euros that do not tax in Spain. So you explain this to the Spaniards. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u85	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u86	Thank you very much, President. Mr Bel said that Title VI, tax rules, is a relevant issue in the budgets - which is doubtful - but if there is one thing that shows this Title VI is that it is neither good for Spain nor is it good for the Spaniards, mainly because the groups that support the government want to raise taxes on them, when what was going on is to lower them, since the exit from this crisis cannot be at the expense of the economies of the families. Mr Guijarro, who is very likely to always use Europe as a shield, has been forgotten today to say that Europe has been the one who has recommended that taxes should not be raised, that this crisis should lead to a revival of consumption, and that is only when money is in the economies. [[Applauds]] Someone used to say, "It's just that you don't find out, you propose to lower taxes and you want expenses. Just like the rest of the European countries, ladies and gentlemen. Twenty countries in Europe have lowered taxes, for example, France. Italy, EUR 20 billion in exemptions and lower VAT. Portugal, very similar to the government they have here, increases public expenditure by 20%, but lowers the IRPF and lowers VAT. Germany lowers VAT by three points, ladies and gentlemen. All countries are lowering taxes except Spain. What's Spain doing? To raise taxes to the rich classes, the middle classes and the working classes. I'm not gonna have much fun explaining this. You raise the IRPF; you raise corporation tax; sugary drinks, which should only be taken by the rich; pension plans - there are 8 million people in Spain who contribute to pension plans, but you all look rich - and, in addition, you increase insurance premiums. The other question - which has been last minute - on which I am going to stop for a minute is the fiscal assault on the Madrid Arks. It seemed like it was a Republican Left of Catalonia thing, but now it's added Podemos. In any case, do you know what's wrong with you, gentlemen on the left? That you do not support the policies of the People's Party that function and simply, as you do not, want to end them. It has been Mr Rufián, who comes from an autonomous community that has the biggest debt in Spain, the biggest debt per capita, which has the biggest public deficit, which is the community that the most societies have managed to get out of a community in a short time -5300- and to fry at taxes to Catalans, with eighteen taxes, nothing more and nothing less, who has inaugurated a new policy: it is no longer asking here in Madrid the policy of privileges, no, it is the policy of prejudice towards those who do not think or do not act like them and that cannot be. Do you know what bothers you, gentlemen of the left and, above all, the Republican Left of Catalonia? That Madrid has done just the opposite of Catalonia and, as Madrid has done just the opposite of Catalonia, it has done well in front of Catalonia, to which it has done quite badly, ladies and gentlemen. Here in Madrid you come to undertake and do not ask if you know or do not know a language, you can simply act with much more freedom. That's what really bothers them. An open city, a plural city, a city that has looked at the world in front of a Catalonia that is increasingly looking at the navel. So, to sum up, Madrid is proof that Spain is much better than that chimera that you dream of being called Catalan countries. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been listening to all the speeches carefully this afternoon and you remind me of exactly what you said here in 2008 Zapatero and Minister Solbes. Minister Solbes here came to say that unemployment would not reach 10% and remained so wide. Well, it came to 23%. In the end, to sum up, ladies and gentlemen, 10 million unemployed people have created the policies of the Socialist Party whenever there has been a crisis in the face of 8.5 million jobs created by the People's Party. You can turn that reality around now, but that's the truth, and in the end, you know what the tax bill is going to be? The EUR 16 000 that each family will have to pay in this country, EUR 1000 more than last year, and EUR 7000 that Mr Sánchez has increased the debt per household during the time he has been ruling. The novelty of this budget is the selective amendments. Mrs Mínguez said that it is not so much 90 amendments. No, if that is not the problem, the problem is to have vetoed some because they come from a political party, and I put, for example, the reduction of diesel, while others that come from another political party that is related to the government do not veto. That is the gravity of this issue. You are afraid to vote, you are afraid to lose elections; most are so fragile, ladies and gentlemen, you do not even know how to explain to the Spanish citizens how it is possible to say no to the People's Party when it proposed that VAT be reduced to 0%, since these masks are mandatory. Or how it is possible that you do not understand that at income 0 quota 0 in the self-employed, that you do not pay IRPF and that you do not pay VAT until 21 May at least, since we are in a state of alarm and this government has basically forced many of those companies to close. Or how it is possible, ladies and gentlemen, that a reduced rate of 4% should not apply to the whole hospitality sector. Or how it is possible, ladies and gentlemen, that the electric car sector will not be given any kind of bonuses. There is another issue with regard to the amendments and the veto that is different, because you have vetoed many amendments and yet to one that had the reports against, nothing more and nothing less, which is that of Bildu, simply to that you have given the OK. And since this afternoon is about anecdotes, I'm going to count one too. Mr Simancas is not here, but I am going to count one of a taxi driver; one of the Socialist Party's colleagues has counted one of a taxi driver and one of me. We all took taxis and the other day the taxi driver asked me how it is possible for the Socialist Party to embrace and make a priority partner for a party that ten years ago embraced those who bombed and killed them. This should be explained by you, ladies and gentlemen, because there is no one in this country who understands it. [[Applauds]] The answer is very simple, it's easy to understand: you need this budget like eating, basically because otherwise, you wouldn't survive politically. I have fourteen seconds left to make one point. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you made a speech on the day of the Commission that I am not going to remember as an entrepreneur, but, in any case, if you had been in that Commission, many amendments would have come forward. The Spaniards won't thank him. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Suárez Lamata. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u88	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the partial amendments to Title VI respond to sectoral interests which, despite being legitimate, cannot therefore overlap with the defence of the general interest. At this time of difficulties caused by the pandemic, it has become viral to ask for reductions and VAT exemptions, when it is clear that VAT is neither the problem nor the solution to the crisis. It is a fact that the reduction or exemption from the tax is not substantial in order to achieve the reduction of the consumer price and does not in itself guarantee access to the most vulnerable. It is not a good instrument to encourage consumption because of the characteristics of the crisis itself and, in addition, as the AIReF says, a reduced VAT rate benefits those with more income. Aid to the self-employed and sectors affected by this crisis should therefore not be reduced by VAT, but through other more effective measures, such as those adopted by the Government: ERTE, ICO guarantees, tax deferrals, benefits or ensuring the availability of protection products at affordable prices. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that this is never enough, but never has a government helped the self-employed and businesses as much as this one. [[Applauds]] It's an indisputable reality. I understand, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that you do not want to recognise it, you have never done anything for the autonomous, but this government is doing it. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, our commitment and obligation is to ensure an overall vision, as well as to focus the measures to be adopted on the most vulnerable people and sectors. Measures already included in the Royal Decree-Laws and also in the budgets submitted by the Government; budgets that provide many solutions to the problems of citizenship and that are not understood to be approved by the unanimity of this House because citizens need them. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, they repeat much this of raising or lowering taxes, but it is that the objective of our tax policy itself is not to lower or raise taxes, the real objective is to achieve higher levels of well-being and equity in the population. Because defending the reduction of taxes, as the Spanish right does, is only explained from the defense of a system in which there is only a health and an education for those who can afford it. [[Applauds]] The reduction of taxes as a whole implies a lower collection, and this is not an opinion, it is a fact. If the Community of Madrid increases its tax revenues by lowering taxes, it is not because of the reduction in taxes itself, but because of the existence of unfair tax rules between territories that allow it to attract taxpayers. [[Rumors.-A Member of Parliament: What a barbarity!-A Member of Parliament: Come on!]] But if the downhill competition were taken to the extreme, ladies and gentlemen, and all the territories were to do the same, the revenues would be virtually zero. And what public system would we have? [[Rumors]] Surely the one the right wants: none. [[Applauds]] You don't want a public system. Many things have been said here, but the reality is that it is quite a waste that Madrid is giving up more than EUR 4100 million per year, as indicated in the report published by the IVIE, benefiting precisely those who have the most. [[A Member of Parliament: That's all right!]] It is clear that the right puts its economic fallacies at the service of its ideology, which it is you who are demonstrating today what your ideology is by continually defending as a tax policy to lower taxes. It is obvious that if we want to have good public services and a good state of social protection we must have a good tax system that generates sufficient income to finance them, and now the pandemic makes it more evident that we need to strengthen health, education, security and social protection policies. Ladies and gentlemen, we Socialists want a fairer, more redistributive tax system adapted to a globalised and digitalised economy, and the tax measures put forward by the government that are reflected in these budgets are precisely in line with this aspiration. Measures such as the fight against tax fraud and avoidance, the digital services tax or the financial transaction tax. They all seek to ensure that those operating in Spain contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure according to their economic capacity; all those who generate profits in Spain must contribute to this regardless of where they are located; it is a matter of pure justice. Spain is the sixth country in the eurozone with the lowest public income on GDP, so there is no tax margin to lower taxes in times of crisis. In fact, in 2014 tax collection as a percentage of GDP would have been a higher point if the People's Party tax reform, published by the AIReF, had not been implemented. Therefore, of course there are different tax models. While the Government of the People's Party in the midst of the economic crisis in 2012 raised taxes and forgave the defrauders, the progressive Government in the face of this crisis prohibits tax amnesties and takes fair and reasonable tax measures. Ladies and gentlemen, fair and reasonable! [[Applauds]] Wise measures, such as updating the insurance premium tax, yes, pass the 8 % tax rate, but what they do not say is that it is far below, for example, the 19 % tax in Germany. Measures that are in line with the countries in our environment, such as the 5% reduction in the corporate tax exemption for capital gains and dividends generated by subsidiaries abroad, which already apply countries such as Germany, France or Italy. And these are measures, ladies and gentlemen, recommended by independent bodies: the recommendation of the AIReF for improving the system's progressiveity is followed by changing the limit of contributions to individual pension plans, so that reductions can benefit those that really reflect lower economic capacity, and the IMF's recommendation is followed by choosing the highest contribution of higher incomes and multinationals. For all that, our group will vote in favour of budgets that aim to have a more efficient and fairer taxation that better finances public services and social protection measures. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u89	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Title VII We are entering the debate on Title VII. The Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u90	Thank you, President. I'll be brief. In any case, I also take advantage of the shift, as I will spare time, for two comments, one in relation to the previous title. We had also tabled some amendment to the amendment to corporation tax and to the division of dividends and taxation, the new taxation of this 5% which is not exempt between participating companies, not to eliminate it, as other groups had done, because it seemed to us that the approach could be reasonable, but to avoid the cascade effect because the treatment that the dividends are going to receive will not be the same if there are two companies or three companies involved in the group or if there are five or six companies. What we are looking for is neutrality in the distribution of dividends, regardless of the number of companies it passes through, because, if not, it will generate inefficiency and we will see it. We have not been able to resolve this at the moment in this parliamentary process, let us hope that the Government will be sensitive. And that does not mean that they stop paying, but that they all pay equally, regardless of the number of companies in the holding or participating. Another question. I believe that Mr Suárez is not here when I have made the argument before; yes, he is, but I do not see him, in any case, I am sure he will again appear. Look, from the most absolute discrepancy. I do not share the approach of this tax homogenization that is exposed, but, at the same time, you cannot dispatch your speech from this rostrum saying that in Catalonia, if taxes are raised, it is because Catalans want or are maneuvers. If we had a financing system comparable to all the Autonomous Communities, if we had the same opportunities and if we were not underfunded, we would certainly not have this situation, situation, I repeat, which I disagree with, and I believe it is not a correct one, but I assure you that in Catalonia no one, nor Republican Squerra nor anyone, would be raising this question if there was no situation of underfunding and if there was a situation of non-infrafinancing or equality in the system of financing between the different Autonomous Communities, I assure you that in Catalonia we could compete with any of the Autonomous Communities of the State. Having said that, I have only come to talk about my book, territorial entities, and I suppose you are already waiting for it. COVID fund, municipalities. Not by 2021, I have said it more than once, these budgets, for the strict purposes of 2021, are not bad budgets for local corporations, they are not. Objectively they are not, and they have exceeded the expectations that many mayors had in relation to these budgets, and we must recognize that. Now, there is no solution to an aspect that I trust will be resolved before the end of the year, and I will claim it again from this rostrum, and it is that local corporations are given the same treatment that was given to the autonomous communities. And if a fund of EUR 16 billion was set up to be distributed among the autonomous communities, regardless of their financial situation, I still hope - let me be deluded, let me say that I believe in Christmas and the Magi - that the government before the end of the year gives a resolution on this fund of EUR 3 billion COVID for local corporations, as well as we must not forget the 400 million of the fund to finance the deficit that has been generated as a result of the pandemic in municipal public transport and can be resolved. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u91	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the winning rostrum]] Mr Pisarello Prados has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Podemos-In Communal Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to take this opportunity to make a few brief reflections on the situation in the local world which, of course, has gained great importance throughout this pandemic, but in relation to which the oblivion and financial ill-treatment to which it has been exposed over the years has also been highlighted. At present, there are a very large number of citizens who recognize that this crisis would have been much harsher without the committed, solvent response of hundreds of small townships, who decided to take a leap, who decided not to look elsewhere and put themselves at the service of their neighbours, with quite scarce resources and with funding very similar to that which existed in the time of late-offranchism. And the truth is that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, I would point out that they are coming up to this rostrum and listening to them as they try to stand up as defenders of a municipalism to which they have dedicated themselves to assaulting and asphyxiating all this time. It is repetitive to say this here, but those who had responsibilities in municipal governments cannot forget how during the government of Mariano Rajoy, with Mr. Cristóbal Montoro at the front and with many VOX deputies behind, a blast of municipal public services was committed. I remember it very well. They were blamed for the debt, their staffing was weakened, they were pushed into privatization, they were prevented from using their own resources and none of that was neutral. All of this was an unforgivable attack on local autonomy, on proximity democracy, against which we rose again and again, with mayors even of the People's Party, because that led to a situation of precariousness in the municipal world, which, in my opinion, is still the cause of many cities being so ill prepared to take over the pandemic. That is why today we can only celebrate that thanks to the battle of hundreds - as I say - of small villages and municipalities we have taken off, at least temporarily, the knee of austerity, which was actually the knee of the cuts that the Montoro Law imposed for so long on the municipal world. From now on many municipalities will be able to raise funds and allocate their savings to stimulate economic and social reconstruction, which is more necessary than ever. Pure and hard Keynesianism. Without a doubt, what we need goes far beyond all this because, as the emergency lasts, the fact is that we have before us as an indispensable task to undertake once and for all the second decentralization that gives the municipal world the resources and competences proper to an advanced democracy in the twenty-first century. This involves, for example, providing it with tax instruments that allow it to make progressive fiscal policies, not harmonisation on a downwards basis, and unconditional transfers that allow it to finance its services, that allow it to make better use of the collective intelligence of its workers and to better meet the needs of its neighbours. We are defending together with the FEMP a mobile fund specific to the municipal world, like the one that the autonomous communities had, and we are going to continue to defend it, we are not going to renounce it. We defend the need - Mr Bel said now - for a specific fund for public transport in large cities and we will continue to defend it. We demand measures against the great speculation and limits to the abusive prices of the rents, which were making to the neighbors of our cities, and we will continue to defend it for a very simple reason, ladies and gentlemen, because in the history of the Peninsula the great social, cultural and economic progress that took place had as great protagonist to the municipal world, to the local world. It was with the outlaws and communal freedoms that they defended themselves against the evil government and the abuses of absolutism. It was so in the Cortes de Cadiz, that they received the impulse of a popular junta movement that moved Europe. This was the case with Republican municipalism, which faced the oligarchies and caciquism during the 19th and 20th centuries. It was so with the anti-Franco movement itself, which was deeply municipalist, and even with the impetus of the 15M, which led to democratic changes that crystallized in many of our cities. Now what we need is to update and enhance that legacy for several reasons, and I will only point out two. The first is, in fact, to prevent the consolidation of the Ayuso model, to prevent the cities becoming the fiscal haven of a few billionaires, in this case, to the detriment of the people of Madrid, of all the cities and peoples of the State and of Spain itself. We also need it for a very simple reason: because robust municipalism, democratic municipalism is the best vaccine against the pandemic and the most effective antidote that exists in Europe and in the world against the growth of inequality and against the growth of racism under which the 1% which only defends the privileges of those who have always been camouflaged in a demagogic way. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u93	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rodríguez Almeida has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote: 'I believe that I am a firm defender of this construction and that it is a matter of all the autonomous communities exercising their powers from equity so that there are no dysfunctions depending on where the services are provided. Therefore, in my mind it is correcting inequalities that occur by the mere fact of being born in one place and not in another.' - I close quotes. Do these words sound familiar to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group? They were declared by his Minister of Finance at the plenary session of 12 February 2019 in the processing of the General Budgets of the State for the year 2019. It's just that many of them are from VOX and still don't know. [[Laughter and applause]] This happens relatively often in plenary and in committees. I quote another example, now from the Communist Party of the Government Coalition. They presented a non-legislative proposal discussed in the Committee on Industry, Trade and Tourism on 13 October, in which they urged the Government - and I read literally - to 'improve social infrastructures to reduce territorial disparities, promote regional convergence and ensure equivalent benefits in all territories'. - I close quotes. Well, VOX is the only party in its program to eradicate territorial inequalities among Spanish people. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to VOX. [[Applauds]] From VOX we encourage you to regain the noble desire to contribute to equality between Spaniards of the different territories, as stipulated in article 14 of our Constitution. However, the budgets they present for 2021 will go ahead precisely because of the pacts they have reached with those who want to break equality between the Spaniards. What do you think Spanish companies or families have done in their economic forecast for next year? Do you think they've replicated their budget from the previous year? Obviously not. The Spaniards, far more sensible than you, have assumed an adverse economic scenario and reduced their spending in anticipation of an already inevitable reduction in income. Do you think that the economic crisis that has caused the pandemic and that you have aggravated with your poor management will not have a significant impact on the economic flow between the state and the territorial authorities? Do you not think, ladies and gentlemen of the left, that the new scenario that has caused the very serious economic situation that we are experiencing would not have merited an effort by the Minister of Finance of the Government of Spain to review and adapt the criteria that determine the economic flows between the State and the territorial entities? That is why these budgets deserve an amendment to the whole of them as presented by the VOX Group. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what did you want to show by tabling the 1500 amendments, which you are so proud of and which have served no purpose at all? [[Applauds.-Protests]] The only thing they have shown is that there is nothing left of the management capacity they like to boast about. They have understood nothing of the new Spanish political scenario. The turnism and the distribution of armchairs between the PSOE and the PP have ended. [[Applauds.-Protests]] They maintain a non-aggression pact on both sides of the Chamber, as demonstrated in the motion of censure, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and quotas of power continue to be distributed, as in the General Council of the Judiciary. They have abandoned the cultural, social and economic battle and left us alone in VOX, defrauding millions of Spaniards who had trusted you. [[Applauds.-Protests]] It seems that the members of the Government are aligned in the most absolute incompetence, with very serious consequences for all Spaniards. It seems that the Council of Ministers is already the fruit of the education law they promote, in which students promote and titrate without accrediting the acquisition of any capacity or competence. They have to get to work, design budgets that allow them to get ahead of the virus in health management and alleviate the economic crisis, they have to put foreign policy into operation so that countries that are collaborating with illegal immigration stop causing so much damage to the main economic activity of our Canary Islands. [[Applauds]] Sitting down and waiting for the problems to be fixed didn't work for President Rajoy's government and it won't work for you either. Nor with the most numerous and expensive government of our democracy have they been able to move the most elementary springs of government action in the present thesis. If they had a minimum of dignity or empathy with the Spaniards, they would resign in bloc and put an end to this nightmare that they are putting us through. The Spanish do not deserve these budgets nor do you deserve to govern the Spanish. They emigrate to North Korea, Cuba or Venezuela and live the future they want to condemn us to. Go away once and for all and let Spain remain Spain. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u95	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr González Terol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u96	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you all. It is up to us to lay down our position on the amendments tabled to Title VII of the General Budgets of the State and once again, after having passed through the Committee on Budgets, we can see how nobody here is interested in talking about Title VII. This Government has completely forgotten during the pandemic of municipalities and parliaments. Mr Pisarello says - and it is the party that is part of the government - that Podemos cares a lot about the municipalities, that the blame for what has happened to the municipalities throughout all these years has been Mr Rajoy's. Is it Mr. Rajoy's fault the billion euros in debt of Zaragoza City Council, the gomina of the mayor of Podemos included, Mr. Pisarello? Is Mr Rajoy's problem also the EUR 612 million in debt from Alcorcón City Hall or the EUR 200 million in debt from Aranjuez Socialist City Hall? Was that all fruit of nothing? It was the result of a terrible management, a management of years of Socialist Party governments supported by the United Left and for what was later Podemos. They were years of budgets of total abandonment of the municipalities. And you know what Mr. Rajoy did? Three payment plans to suppliers. Do you know what Mr. Rajoy did? Put local governments in the waist, but at the same time save them. Do you know why there are now remnants in the city halls? After eight years, with a great effort on the part of municipalities and citizens, EUR 18 billion can now be used - certainly against what you and the Socialist Party thought - without having to hand them over for nothing, seized, stolen by this government for the road map of this socialist and communist government. This is the fruit of the work of the Socialist Party and Podemos. That's why we call these antisocial budgets, because they raise taxes, 9 billion euros. You say only the rich. I believe that many assumptions have been made here about the rates and taxes that are going to rise that are going to affect especially the middle and lower classes. These are inflated budgets. Mr Bel said that he is happy - also the Socialist Party - with these budgets, which help the municipalities a lot. Does it help municipalities a lot to falsify the state's revenues? If you falsify the state's revenues, do you know what's going to happen? In the share of State revenue, the municipalities will receive more in 2021, to return the false revenues of the State in 2022 and 2023. This has already happened in 2008 and 2009. Do you know what happened? The biggest bankruptcy of municipalities in the history of democracy in Spain. That's what you're leading us towards. They're undemocratic budgets. These members of the Socialist Party have decided to agree with Esquerra and Bildu, overcoming all the lines, with those who want to destroy this country, with those who are the heirs of ETA and still do not condemn the terrorist attacks or help clarify three hundred of them, instead of reaching out to the constitutionalists, such as the People's Party, which governs nothing but 2860 municipalities and 13 deputies. Mr. Bel said they expect a royal decree to come. We hoped that the amendments, EUR 4 billion for the municipalities, which, by the way, have received truly incredible support from this government throughout the pandemic, would be acceptable to us. Do you know how much money? Zero euros in the eight months of pandemic and rebounds, zero euros to compensate for social emergency aid and all that has had to help the municipalities to the citizens who have really gone wrong. That is why we are submitting amendments calling for EUR 4 billion for this COVID Fund from the municipalities. You say you support him, too. Would you like to explain to me, if you support it and have voted for it in the FEMP, why you have not tabled it as amendments to the General Budgets of the State? Why didn't you introduce him? Why does the Socialist Party, after supporting these amendments within the FEMP, betray the Socialist mayor of Vigo and decide not to present these amendments to the General Budgets of the State? Now what you say between the scenes is that you are going to pass a real decree to give not 4000, but 3000 million euros for the municipalities and 400 to compensate the transport fund, but that you do not dare to bring it, it will not be that the People's Party votes against it. How many calls have the People's Parliamentary Group, my spokesman, the chairman of my party or myself as deputy secretary of my party received from this government? None to negotiate. Then, isn't there going to be a royal decree? There is no budget in 2021 for the municipalities nor do they intend to agree that EUR 3 billion will come for the municipalities in 2020. You betray even your own, whether from Podemos or from the Socialist Party. Mr Pisarello, we can agree to ask for EUR 400 million for transport and EUR 3000 million for the COVID Fund. Well, tell it to the social vice president of the government, who when he wants to pressure even to be on the CNI; tell him, you sure will bring him. You've gone from dots to a theme. Aren't you worried about European funds? Spain will receive 140 billion euros, 34 billion euros next year, and this government, you hand over to the municipalities 1483 million euros, 1.2% of the total. By the way, explain this to your leader, Dona Ana Colau, who has just signed a letter with the mayors of Bratislava, Milan, Hannover, Lisbon asking that the European reconstruction fund, that the resilience fund be used at least 10% of the total amount, which would correspond not to about EUR 14 billion, but to almost EUR 16 billion for the Spanish municipalities. We are presenting an amendment - an amendment that is still alive in one of the parliamentary groups but has been rejected in the case of the People's Group - asking for exactly the same percentage of European funds for the municipalities as for municipal public expenditure as a whole, 14.56%, 21 billion euros. That's not what you've been talking about, Mr. Pisarello. Tell it to the blue bench, tell it to your party mates and come back and explain to Ada Colau why you have not defended here what she asks as mayor and leader of seven of the deputies on her bench. We are, however, going to do it, and we are going to do it not for Barcelona or Podemos, but for the 8131 municipalities of Spain as a whole. We're going to fight for all the deputies, we're going to fight for the lobbyists and island councils. We are still going to demand it by the end of the year, and we will continue to reach out to the Government to give those 3 billion by royal decree to the municipalities. But it is shameful to hear how parties with so much local representation, such as the Socialist Party, abandon as ever in the history of democracy to municipalities, parliaments, island councils and, therefore, the people who need it most to continue fighting this pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u97	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u98	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This is my first intervention from this rostrum. Perhaps this is the most important week in this country for a long time. Today we are seen by citizens, businesses and administrations and today I am proud and it is an honour, as a public servant, as a socialist and as a citizen of this country, to be able to defend essential, progressive budgets that our country needs more than ever. [[Applauds]] Listening to Mr. González Terol, he reminds me of that arsonist who in one hand carried a lighter to provoke a fire and in the other the phone to call the firefighters to extinguish the fire provoked. That has been, Mr González Terol, the attitude of the People's Party with the municipalities of this country over the past eight years. You are the intellectual authors and enforcers of limiting local autonomy, of stealing the ability to decide to 8,000 mayors of this country, of reducing the expenditure of all local entities, of suppressing social plans for municipalities, employment plans. They are the authors of suffocating the municipalities of this country over the last eight years. You prevented using the savings, the remnant and the surplus of the municipalities. That's your letter of introduction to local entities over the past eight years, that's your credibility. And you come today to give municipalism lessons to this plenary? You have very little credibility to talk about municipalism not in this plenary, in the 8,000 plenary sessions of this country. [[Applauds]] We are, ladies and gentlemen, before the General Budgets of the State - other speakers have said - more important in the democratic history of this country. It has never been more necessary for all territorial administrations to have public accounts, accounts that will not only mark the year 2021, but the beginning and the impetus of a new country, of a new economic and social transformation, and it has not been easy. Within a territorial framework, in a decentralized model, in a state of autonomy, if anything has put the pandemic to the test, it has been this decentralized model. If anything we have discussed in this Congress has been of unique command, of competence, of coordination, of co-responsibility. That has been discussed in this Congress and that is why it is necessary for these budgets to go hand in hand with all the territorial administrations of this country, because we need them, from the smallest city to the largest city, to each and every one of the autonomous communities and to the state itself. That is the mission that these budgets have, to sew the whole of the administrations. But we have to do this from the permanent dialogue, I would say from the indispensable dialogue of all administrations. We have to do it from coordination in the actions of all administrations, we have to do it from co-responsibility in the decision, we have to do it, in short, from the new model of co-governance. That is co-government, that is the model that must govern not in the future, but in the present of the relations of the administrations. That's what we marked with these public accounts. We know the effort made by the whole of the autonomous communities, all of them, of any political sign, also the whole of the 8000 municipalities, all of them, of any ideology, a tremendous effort. That is why the Government acted from the first minute, and that is why resources were mobilized that had never been mobilized in the democratic history of this country. The first decision was to update the deliveries for 2867 million additional injection for the autonomous communities and the creation of the COVID Fund, of 16 billion euros, outside the financing system, the highest transfer in the history of this country. These are budgets that will have an additional transfer of more than 13 billion, together with 113 000 of the funding system. And then, of course, I don't know whether to apologize because the recovery funds have arrived, because when I listen to the People's Party I have the impression that it has been bad news for this country that the recovery funds have arrived. They have come to compare them with plans E. Ladies and gentlemen, do not disrespect people. The municipalities will receive exactly 1,483 million more of the recovery funds they received at their stage, which was zero, gentlemen of the People's Party. Recovery funds are the essential tool for providing security to citizens, trust in our businesses and well-being to all the administrations of this country. They are therefore fundamental and the autonomous communities will manage more than 50% of these funds. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, these budgets are the real economic vaccine in the face of the economic pandemic that this country is suffering. And here are two options: what those above do, which I do not ubiquitous them, which is to make an amendment to this country as a whole, not to this government or to these budgets - and I hope you do not join that amendment to this country as a whole - or to make this economic vaccine reach all the territories, all the municipalities, all the communities in this country. That is the decision we made this week and everyone will be responsible for that decision. I hope that all the groups in this House will be involved in this. Otherwise, I am sure that the citizens will make a full amendment to those who do not. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u99	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Additional, transitional, derogating, final and annexes provisions Finally, we move on to the debate on the additional, transitional, derogating, final and annex provisions. In defence of amendments, first of all, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. When the People's Party won the elections with an absolute majority and a Canarian minister, José Manuel Soria, I had as companions here by the PSOE Angel Victor Torres, current president of the Canary Islands, and Chano Franquis. Both of them and I denounced at the time with press conferences in the Canary Islands and Madrid and in the debate on the state budgets that at the worst time in the Canary Islands, because at the time we were with 30% unemployment, the People's Party, with that absolute majority, took away all the investments in the Canary Islands, took away the employment plans and said that the Canary Islands already have enough in the budgets because we paid them 75% and 300 million to have light like the rest of the Spanish. It was terrible, and I was the government's scourge for four years. Today, in this year 2020, the tornadoes and the Canary Islands are changing, with 60% of the population unemployed or in ERTE, and 62% of the young people, being the most affected community, with a government president going to Brussels saying that Spain needs more funds than the rest of the countries because it is worse - the Canary Islands says that - this community is being eliminated by investments and has no reconstruction. By the way, the other day I discovered why the compensation for the transportation of residents increases by 200 million, as if the Canary Islands were to travel like crazy in 2021: because it turns out that they have used it from vulture background for the amendments of Esquerra. How strong! Well, at that time the Government of the Canary Islands, which was a nationalist, went to the Supreme because the road agreement had been violated, and after seven years the sentence came. At the time, the PP, who was here with the PSOE and with us, was claimed to pay the debt to the Canary Islands, almost 800 million. Now, you come to the government, here and in the Canary Islands, and there is no sentence from the Supreme. They have prevented me from defending and voting on the amendments affecting the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, its status of autonomy, which have become a wet paper. Ángel Víctor and I said that from that moment on no government would come, either from the left or the right, that would violate the rights of the Canary Islands, and they have turned it into wet paper at the worst time in the Canary Islands. COVID has affected the Canary Islands' investment reserve, the deadline for maintaining jobs. There's Hector, who knows. We know the importance of reactivation of tourism in the coming year in order to be able to compete with our competitors, the importance of being able to change air rates, as has been done in all budgets. But you have vetoed the amendments on the Economic and Fiscal System, not on other political forces, and you will tell me why, because the Fiscal Economic System is the same with regard to all the amendments. They have prevented me from voting for a bonus on air charges, and the Socialist Group always presented that amendment to the budgets. They have prevented the Posei party from being called upon to expand. They have prevented the resolution of the tools that Canaries need to get out of the crisis. And we do not need the tools of the rest of Spain; we need ours, those that compensate for remoteness and insularity and those that take into account the particular difficulty, as Brussels has acknowledged. There are 20 million European-funded funds for the digitisation of tourism, but tourism infrastructure is removed. And the money for the Institute of Astrophysics, which other years was in other games, now they put it in European funds. I reached out to them and told the president, the spokesman for the PSOE and all the ministers that we were willing to sit down and talk. No one's called me. You already had your agreements and you didn't care. I wanted to contribute because I wanted these budgets to also help rebuild a land that is currently in a desolate situation between immigration and unemployment. All these infrastructure agreements relate not only to infrastructure needed by the Canary Islands, but also to thousands of jobs in the construction sector. The aid from the agricultural REF served to be able to have at a very difficult time also for the primary sector tools to compete on equal terms. We're privileged. Every time a government changes, it is necessary to re-explain to the Secretaries of State what the Canary Islands is and what the Canary Islands need when they ask what the Canary Islands complain about if they have enough money. It's unworthy. [[The lady]] I do not understand why they have not even allowed amendments tabled by the Socialist Party itself in other legislatures, which would have solved the problems that have not been solved by the decree regarding the extension of the CRP, the ZEC and certain concepts. I insist, my amendments were also made by the Canary Islands Government itself. I only ask you to reflect and that the Socialist Party itself present in the Senate the amendments that are necessary. My party wasn't going to manage those funds, because we didn't rule. Canaries need it. It's not about who points it at him, it's about him coming out. It's very sad. The Canary Islands feel abandoned by our Government. We feel supported by Brussels, which has urged the Government to treat the Canary Islands for its particular difficulty, but we do not feel supported by this Government at this time. Neither the young people of the Canary Islands nor the people who are in ERTE; I have several brothers in ERTE. We are alone in the middle of the Atlantic and I ask you to reflect. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u102	Thank you, President. Before I go into the debate on the additional, derogatory and other provisions, I would like to refer to Mr Hurtado, the ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE. I don't know if Mr Hurtado is in the Chamber. If not, read it, see it or tell them. Mr Hurtado called me simplistic for talking about public debt and says we have to be careful about our indebtedness. Tell him that there is nothing more simplistic than believing that, because it is cheaper for us to be in debt, it is good to be in debt with two hands, and if they can also tell him that Spain will face a long-term debt sustainability problem from this year on. Apart from the financing problems that will arise in the medium term, having a high level of debt imposes major restrictions on taking on future and unexpected exogenous shocks in order to carry out a countercyclical policy. Ask him if this I just said seems simplistic to Mr. Hurtado. As I said, Madam President, we have already finished this debate under the heading of the budget law, and in this section it is entirely up to everyone, whatever the government wants it to have, because what it does not want directly veto it and prevent its debate. Citizens, my parliamentary group, tabled various amendments to be included in the budgets through these additional provisions, amendments with very clear objectives: to allocate all possible resources to improve our health system, to protect families in general and the most vulnerable, in particular, and to help self-employed people, businesses and SMEs to stand up until the end of the pandemic and also to maintain employment, with a particular impact on the tourism sector. As you can see, none of these amendments is subject to the particular interest of a particular territory or party, but they have a clear objective, the same objective that has been our raison d'être since the beginning of this pandemic, which is to save lives and save jobs, and so we try to make it clear in all the amendments tabled. As I said, of all these amendments, some accounts were vetoed directly by the Government, the rest were rejected and only one was approved. Nevertheless, my group and I personally are pleased that we have managed to get the government out of these budgets with a commitment to implement a single health card. Spain, thanks to the management, work and negotiation of Citizens, will finally have a unique health card, a milestone to guarantee equal access to health care. Ladies and gentlemen, from now on no Spaniard will be treated as a displaced person in his own country, but this is not enough to support these budgets. As I said earlier, the rest of the amendments have been vetoed or voted against, but I would like to highlight some - I do not have time to mention and explain all - so that everyone knows what the government parties are opposed to. In Citizens we have proposed aid for the self-employed who are most affected by the pandemic, a deep lost aid for those companies with fewer than fifty workers, so that they do not see themselves caught at the final closure; and you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, voted no. Thinking also about the workers, we included an amendment to extend the ERTE until June 31, 2021; and you voted no. We also tabled an amendment to reduce VAT to the tourism sector, a key sector for the Spanish economy and one of the most hit by the coronavirus; a VAT reduction accompanied by a protection and support plan for the sector. What did you vote for? No, no, We also remember the families, ladies and gentlemen, and request that a paid leave be approved so that parents can take care of their children if minors have to quarantine; and you have voted no. We have also asked them, by amendment, to reduce university fees for the families most affected by the pandemic; they voted no. And with a view to improving our health, we have proposed the creation of a national commission for the coordination of the health system; and they have voted no. We proposed that you develop a national mental health strategy, thinking in particular about the prevention of suicide; and you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and of Podemos, have voted no. I conclude this review by recalling that in our amendments we had also asked them to increase investment in R & D to 2%, as they are asking from broad sectors of society. Remember what you voted for last week, ladies? No, no, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, they had two ways, and we will not tire of repeating it, because we have worked tirelessly and to the end to bring forward the way that we consider to be good for the general interest of the Spaniards. You have thought only of your partisan interests or, worse, of the interests of your coalition government partners, and this is the disastrous outcome for our country. Today Otegi has been in this Congress, the seat of national sovereignty, breast-feeding alongside the Republican Left of Catalonia because they are decisive for these budgets and for the governance of the country; and that image has the endorsement of his Government. I know that perhaps some of you - I want to think that the majority of socialists - can disturb you, but you have allowed yourself to win the battle for Mr. Iglesias, who says that the best news for our democracy is that Bildu is celebrating today. That's your picture, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, and you will never, ever, ever be able to say that you have no other remedy left. And you know what? That now all the Spaniards know. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. After more than eight years of the entry into force of Law 14/2011 on Science, Technology and Innovation, the pre-doctoral contract regulations still do not refer to possible compensation for the termination of this contract. It should be recalled that in April a judgment of the High Court of Xustiza in Galicia established that the pre-doctoral contract could be equated with the contract for work and service and that, therefore, it recognized the right of persons in accordance with that contract to receive compensation, a criterion which was subsequently laid down by the Supreme Court. Therefore, in order to achieve the full achievement of an improvement in their working conditions, and in the light of the case law established by the Supreme Court, it is necessary to undertake a reform of the regulation of this contractual modality that makes clear the right to receive compensation for termination of contracts, in order to eliminate an ambiguity that only generates legal uncertainty in this staff and in research centres and universities. In this case, it is also necessary to establish the transitional arrangements for existing contracts and the financing of these improvements. I would also like to recall that the parties of the Government, PSOE and Podemos, had committed themselves to correcting this injustice, so if they had that commitment, we believe that this is the time for them to carry it out. It's time to do it. On the other hand, we believe that it is necessary to resolve the situation of public employees who were required for their entry to be qualified as superior technician, specialist technician, secondary vocational training or equivalent to be integrated into Group B of the EBEP, of the Basic Staff Regulations of the Public Employee. Similarly, the places for which the qualification as FP1 technician was required shall be considered to be directly integrated into Group C1. These are two questions of justice that the BNG tabled as amendments, and we therefore believe that the Government should not miss this opportunity to resolve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u105	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Also for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u106	Thank you, President. We have tabled numerous amendments for the additional, transitional and final provisions. We understand that some are to address issues that are important for Catalonia and for the Spanish state as a whole, but, in any case, before naming some additional ones, I want to highlight two issues that we have come to deal with and that are important for Catalonia and for the Democratic Party. The first is the one that will enable financial resources during 2021, during the next fiscal year, since, although they were initially committed to the transfer of neighbourhoods and regions to the Generalitat de Catalunya in 2010, management was transferred but without resources. These resources are financed annually directly from the State General Budgets to Renfe. We understood and understood - and the Government also understands it and I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for his sensitivity - that this is a situation which must be brought to an end; obviously, through the procedures, through the agreement of the Joint Commission. These resources must already be managed directly by the Generalitat de Catalunya, according to what is reasonable and is that the resources have them the one who manages the service. Another amendment that I would also like to draw your attention to is the one that will enable the Universitat Oberta de Catalunya, a university that, despite not being public, operates at public prices and whose foundation was created at the request of the Generalitat de Catalunya itself - and the Generalitat itself makes a small contribution to its budget, but it is clear that it is not a public university -, can solve an issue that generates concern and questions its viability, and it is that of the tutor teachers. The only thing we establish with this compromise amendment also with the Government - and I would like to thank the Minister of Universities for his sensitivity about how to solve this problem - is to enable the UOC to make use of the equivalent of the figure of the associate professor that public universities have. This will give continuity to the Universitat Oberta de Catalunya, it will solve the problem of the employment of almost 5000 teachers and, obviously, it will benefit all the students present and future of this university, which essentially has students in Catalonia, but also in the whole Spanish State and throughout the world. It can also be a solution, according to the wording we have agreed, for the associated centres. Having said that, with regard to the amendments that might be relevant in this paragraph, we would have liked to have agreed an amendment so that SEPE would not be considered a second payer for the purpose of presenting or not presenting an income declaration for taxpayers with an income of less than EUR 22 000 and that they had received some payment because they were in a situation of temporary employment regulation, knowing that our amendment could generate some kind of tax inefficiency, but in any case, what we have to take into account is that it will create a problem for all those who, having been in an ERTE, first, will have to make an income declaration, which they usually do not have to do, and second, they will have to pay an amount given that the deductions have been lower. In any case, I also support all the amendments to this paragraph.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, let us talk about human rights, which are indivisible and interdependent. The recognition of economic, social and cultural rights is not a mere catalogue of good intentions on the part of States; they are rights deriving from international human rights treaties signed by the Spanish State. We need, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations, that you reach an urgent, urgent, urgent agreement on the right to housing, an agreement to stop evictions. What citizens see, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can and ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, is that the government fights and does not reach an agreement against evictions. What can we tell families that in the middle of the pandemic, in winter, their roof depends on a government agreement? Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I do not know whether it will be by an amendment or by a real decree, what I do know, what we do know in the Republican Parliamentary Group is that no one should ever be released; above all now - I say again - in the pandemic and in winter. We are also sure that an agreement will be reached. So do it now, urgently. On the right to housing, our argument coincides with the DESC platform. Basically, part of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, also of General Comment 7, also of the interpretation made by the Committee in its opinions that, by the way, of four convictions to Spain for violating the human right to housing, three speak of regulating the eviction procedure, and also in its recommendations included in its last periodic report of 2018. The International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights was adopted and opened for signature, ratification and accession by the General Assembly in its resolution 2200A of 16 December 1966, entering into force on 3 January 1976, the year in which the Spanish State signed it. In addition, the Spanish State signed it by promising to fulfil it, to observe it and to ensure that it is complied with and observed in all its parts to the maximum of its resources in access to the environment, to education, to water, to employment, to social protection and to the other rights essential to decent life, including, as it could not fail to be, the right to adequate housing. The United Nations has developed this right to decent housing in two ways, explaining how it is to be realized in a comprehensive manner with other rights and, above all, how this right is violated when people are expelled from their homes without the State, which is obliged to guarantee respect, promote and defend this right, providing alternative housing for victims. Evictions without alternative housing are therefore prohibited by violating the right to adequate housing. On this basis, the DESC Committee in three of the four convictions of Spain over the past five years for violating the right to adequate housing has requested legal amendments so that these situations do not occur. In particular, in the few minutes I have I will try to summarize them. One, take into account General Comment No. 7 in the process of eviction for foreclosure. Two, legislative and administrative measures in eviction proceedings so that defendants can object or file an appeal, so that the judge considers its consequences and the compatibility of this measure with the pact. Three, the regulatory framework governing evictions with proportional examinations by judges between the purpose pursued by the measure and its consequences on the displaced persons, as well as the compatibility of this measure with the pact in all cases, including occupation without legal title. Four, possibility of opposition and/or appeal in the event of eviction for the judicial authorities to examine the proportionality between the legitimate purpose pursued and the measure and its consequences or to another impartial and independent authority with the power to order the cessation of the violation and to provide an effective remedy. In addition to the recommendation expressed in the 2018 periodic report on Spain of the DESC Committee, the Spanish State is again requested to do the following. One, to establish effective judicial mechanisms to ensure the protection of the right to adequate housing. Two, adopt a legislative framework establishing appropriate requirements and procedures for the carrying out of evictions or forced evictions, which, inter alia, incorporate the principles of reasonableness and proportionality, as well as due process and legal guarantees. Three, adopt a protocol of action in cases of eviction that ensures proper coordination between the courts and social services - I am finishing, Madam President -. It is very important to adopt a legislative framework related to the right to housing, in particular to ensure that displaced persons have access to compensation or other decent housing, that they are informed of the eviction decision and that they have access to an effective judicial remedy. You guys come to an agreement now, stop the evictions now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal. [[Denials by Mrs Fernández Castañón]] All right. Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u110	Good night, Madam President. Thank you so much. I sometimes get the impression that the whole Socialist Parliamentary Group was called on one day - I don't know when, in what week, in what month - on the outskirts of its headquarters, on Ferraz Street, and they said several things to them: First of all, that their elders must be silenced. Secondly, there is a part of history that does not exist. Thirdly, the Civil War has not ended. And fourth, that the years 2010 and 2011 were not governed by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. A Caria event president came here in May 2010, took the floor and defended a royal decree-law, a royal decree-law by which pensions were frozen, the salary of public employees was reduced by 5%, the extra pay of officials was eliminated - the Christmas one, but the year following the summer one - and the disability programmes were reduced by 80%. And then they came and presented a budget bill with a 10% reduction in public expenditure, a 20% reduction in housing expenditure, a 41% reduction in contributions to the autonomous communities and an 8% reduction in social policies. But something has happened - I don't know if it's some sort of collective hypnosis - which has radically forgotten everything. However, that happened; it happened in 2010 and 2011. And then they came to amend the Constitution and introduce the principle of budgetary stability into it. Don't you remember? Did it happen or didn't it? Yes or no? [[A Member of the European Parliament: Yes]] Yes, it happened, but, of course, it was almost the lesser evil, because I realized that you are systematically replacing the economy with anatomy in this budget debate. I began to worry when Minister Calviño told me that we had to tie the shoulder; then she said that we had to act side by side and then they had to reach out to us. Of course, I fell on the account that I had a budgetary tendonitis. You know why? Because he had a lumbar pathology. I had set Otegi's foot to approve the budgets, and so you were, with a lumbar pathology. [[applause]] Sure, they tell us we have to tie the shoulder. Madam Spokesman, when did you call us to negotiate the budgets? What conversation have we had with you? Have we talked to you about the budgets? Did they call us once? How are we gonna tie the shoulder? By the way, 1500 amendments tabled - then I will talk about VOX - and not one accepted. Are we so bad? Are we so bad? So bad? Not even a roundabout in Huesca? No, none. A name change? 1500 and, I see, not with abstention, but voted against. Should we tie the shoulder? What is this, a co-op budget? The truth is that it draws a little attention that we have to hear permanently that we have to hoist our shoulder - I thought hoisting was for Arrimadas - and it turns out that no one has actually told us that we have to be negotiating a budget constantly. You know what's going on? That we do present amendments, two hundred to the articulated part of the text of the Law on General State Budgets to make a plan for rationalizing public expenditure. No more or less what Mr Escriva said before he transfigured his technical spirit into his political spirit. He was saying it, huh? And now he doesn't say it. It is part of the transmutation of the spirit. When a scientist or technician becomes politicians, this kind of thing usually happens. Collective amnesia. Why don't they make a plan to rationalize public spending? One of his ministers already said so. Have you forgotten? Because of the fact that public expenditure has to be analysed, of course public expenditure has to be analysed. But we can go on. We proposed that the replacement rate of health personnel should be increased by an additional 130 per cent and of the staff of the State Security Forces and Corpses; and that the salaries of, for example, the State Security Forces and Corpses in Catalonia should be increased, which is so necessary that they should be increased, but also of the Armed Forces and also of the personnel of the health system. [[applause]] They will tell me: No, but if you intend to lower taxes here - now let's talk about it - and raise spending. Rationalize the spending. I insist that Minister Escriva said that before he was a minister. There is a margin of EUR 30 billion. Why don't they? That's what we're proposing. But we keep going. We proposed many more things. We proposed a plan to help the self-employed and there is no aid to the self-employed. We proposed an employment plan, territorial and specific employment plans, a youth employment plan. There is absolutely nothing about youth employment. Speaking of the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands, we proposed specific improvements to the Canary Islands' economic and fiscal system and to the economic system of the Balearic Islands. Nothing at all, absolutely nothing. The truth is, it's a paradox in its own terms. How is it possible for expenditure to rise, how is it possible for the public deficit to increase, how is it possible for the debt to increase and not to cover the real needs of this country? It begins to be a meaningless paradox; of course, meaningless. Then came one of the strangest events we have experienced in recent years, at least since I am a Member, which is the acceptance or admission of amendments on the basis of a very curious - I would say not discretionary, but arbitrary - criterion of constitutionality. Because if we proposed the elimination of the diesel tax, we would be eliminated. Now, the euskaldun diesel with negative HR was admitted. If we proposed, for example, the modification of VAT on sweetened beverages throughout the national territory was not allowed. Now, it was admitted when it had Catalan independence ferments. This is the first time I've seen in a Budget Act a demanial assignment. Gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, do you really believe that this is contained in the State General Budgets Act? A demanial mutation? Do you also believe that it is constitutional according to the doctrine of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court? We were talking about Loyola's quarters, but there's more. It's just that we suddenly came to tax dumping. Look, I'll explain it to you very clearly, because it's okay. Ten years ago Spain was stealing, now Madrid is stealing. You know why? Because Spain didn't steal ten years ago. By the way, Mr de Esquerra Republicana, how has autonomous financing legislation changed in ten years so that Spain no longer steals? Now it turns out he steals Madrid. But it's the same legislation! [[Applauds]] It's because they don't care, because they don't care, it's so clear. That's the reality. Because it then ruled the People's Party here and because it ruled the People's Party in Madrid. That is the classic fort; as, of course, to deny that it is governed with the Communist Party. But if you sit there the secretary general of the Communist Party of Spain! Well, now it turns out they can't be called communists. And what is Mr. Santiago then? What is Mr. Santiago, who is not here today? Isn't he a communist? I understand he's a communist, right? I'm saying it in case you deny the origins too. I'm done. Since we were talking about Loyola, I finish with San Ignacio de Loyola, at least it will be a good learning for both Basques and those who are not Basques. Saint Ignatius of Loyola said it is everyone's duty to love and serve. You have learned this: love and serve; those who are not sitting here today and Otegi, who has indeed been. They've served them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Garcés. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Calvo Liste has the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u112	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amalgamation of provisions of a different nature established throughout the regulatory body as a colophon must also be analysed in the present draft, especially if it deals with fundamental aspects of the budgets. First, it should be noted that this space is being used to introduce, distorting its purpose, matters that have nothing to do with a law of income and expenses, using provisions such as sink where to call proposals with a marked ideological weight. It has to be said that the sink has collapsed. We have met with everything; again with annual state subsidies for operating expenses and security of political parties. As your ladies and gentlemen know, in VOX we call for an end to public subsidies to political parties. Its foundations, unions, employers and organizations of ideological proselytism must be supported with contributions from affiliates and supporters, not with the money of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] The huge cost of parties and trade unions can only respond to their inefficiency in spending and the maintenance of customer networks. However, the offer of public employment for access to judicial and fiscal careers is limited to 240 places, which we believe do not cover the replacement rate. The recruitment of staff is maintained in the commercial societies, entities, foundations and consortia of the state public sector, serving as a refuge for the placement of supporters of government parties and to propagate ideological agendas with public money, fleeing from greater controls and scrutiny and paving the way for the practice of nepotism. Some, such as the Seittsa, are even allowed to increase their management staff. Public employment pension funds are also promoted, which will be governed by a supervisory commission, with the right of veto by the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. We are very afraid that the politicians on duty will want to channel that savings to their own projects or friends, so we are faced with a deja vu of what happened to the savings boxes. Within the context of historical memory, games are again updated, with the intention of rewriting the past. The funding of projects by women-led digital entrepreneurs and emerging companies, as well as priority sponsorship activities, is encouraged. The Inter-Ministerial Gender Budgeting Commission is established, although it leaves its development for a later time. Don't you realize that by talking about gender you are already discriminating against women and not considering them the same? Once again, a sink of public money and of which will arrive very little to its destination, just 3%, with the rest remaining on the way, in the organizations of the feminist lobby. The percentages monopolized by the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 of Mr. Iglesias, for activities of general interest considered of social interest, are scandalous, amounting to almost 80% of the IRPF 0.7, or the tax benefits to events of exceptional public interest. We would feel better if the tax benefits were for the whole population, that is, just the opposite of the spirit of this bill of budgets for the ruin of Spain and the Spanish. [[Applauds]] There are events that deserve it, but others, at a time like the present one, with almost 70,000 deaths from the pandemic, from the disastrous management of the government, and thousands of closed businesses and businesses, self-employed and unemployed workers, give real blush. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality of Spain, closures and queues I am very afraid that this budget will not allow trade traps to rise or reduce the queues of hunger. [[showing two photographs]] [[Applauds]] Finally, many regional and local debts are also partially forgiven by the State, thus pardoning the bad practices of all types of governments and benefiting the current executives with public money. They win, the Spaniards lose. However, the really bloody and pathetic thing has been the amendments for the addition of new additional or final provisions, in order to take away from the courts the legislative activity that is its own. It has been intended to incorporate into the Budgets Act material content other than the approval of revenue and expenditure, its regulation or to facilitate its implementation, putting them against the constant jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court and therefore with a vice of unconstitutionality. Although there are amendments to provisions by different political parties that suffer from this defect, for example, the creation of the superior technical body of the Treasury, I refer mainly to those presented by the partners of Sánchez - Bildu, Esquerra Republicana and União. We can - jointly, some, separate others, and which deal with protection for mortgage debtors, debt restructuring, social rent, regulating the prohibition of evictions or cuts for the supply of energy, regrettable situations, but to a large extent provoked by this communist social government, whose partners submit amendments behind their backs. Therefore, the lawyers of the Committee on Budgets, having reviewed the amendments tabled, have found that some could collide with the constitutional doctrine for ultra vires infringement of the material content of the budget laws, in accordance with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, which sets the limits: first, essential content, revenue and expenditure numbers and their rules; and second, possible content, other provisions which are directly related to the essential content. This is because these material limits are not established. The Courts could not deploy the battery of objections and amendments, as was the case in the adoption procedures of the rest of the laws. So if these amendments to the provisions are maintained, if they are finally adopted, from this moment on we announce that the VOX Parliamentary Group will proceed to appeal to the Constitutional Court. [[Applauds]] It is intended to sneak through the back door improper regulations of a law of budgets, so in addition to the budgets of ruin are the budgets of the trap, those of separatism and those that at the end of its rubric bear the ominous seal of...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Calvo. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, put on their feet.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on these budgets is becoming a remarkable paradox. We deal with the most important law of the legislature, we deal with the main tool, the fundamental instrument to deal with the crisis of our lives, but opposition groups barely talk about the content of budgets; barely. The most common arguments they make to reject these budgets are not about their content, but about who supports or who stops supporting the budgets. They are weak arguments, prosaic arguments: If he participates, I fall down; if he goes down, I rise up. It's almost childish, ladies and gentlemen of the right. The PP speaks of ETA, of the communist ogre, of Zapatero; Citizens speaks of Otegi, of Junqueras, of the vehicular languages; VOX declares itself to be a parliamentary strike; it must laziness so much article, so many, and has turned its fifty-two deputies into youtubers and paparazzi. [[Applauds]] I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that they will at least give up the salary of these two months that the others have spent working. [[Applauds]] Why, ladies and gentlemen, do not VOX, the People's Party and Citizens speak about the content of the budgets? Because in this draft budgets there is very good news for the Spanish and for the Spanish, and they are ashamed to turn their backs on these good news for pure selfish interest, for pure party calculation; they are ashamed. They do not talk about the content of the budgets because, in their desire to harm the Government, they are opposing the budgets that Spanish society desperately needs to strengthen its National Health System against the threat of the pandemic, to convey 27 billion euros that the government of Pedro Sánchez has achieved, from the European Union, and to protect the most vulnerable so that on this occasion they do not fall into the grip of the crisis as happened a few years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the provisions on the agenda that we are dealing with right now is the guarantee of the rise of pensions - without cuts, without freezes - the increase of 5% of the Iprem - on which the dignity of the subsidies received by thousands of Spaniards depends to a large extent - the Health Cohesion Fund to strengthen our national health system, the Fund for the Support of Industrial Productive Investment - which will help to reactivate our economy and generate employment - the financing of employment plans in Andalusia, Extremadura, the Canary Islands, the distribution of the usual European funds - the Feder funds - and the new ones - the reconstruction funds -. Can you tell me what is in these budgets that you cannot support, which justifies your vote against? How can you disagree in such a flagrant way with the general interest of the country? How can you be so irresponsible? [[Applauds]] They tell us about the vetoes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, like all your lives!, like every time you have ruled and brought a draft budget here! Constitutionalists, you go beyond Article 2 of the Constitution to 134: any amendment that entails an increase in expenditure or a decrease in income will require the Government's agreement to process it. Article 134 of the Constitution and 133 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applauds]] Like all my life! As you have done on hundreds of occasions every time you have brought a draft budget here! A little coherence! A little serious! [[Mrs Spain Queen and Mr Cabezón Casas say words that are not perceived]] But let us go to the great argument, to the argument of the support of the independence partners. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, the Catalan independence groups - Esquerra, Junts and PDECAT - have tabled 1134 amendments. The Socialist Party has so far supported 2 of them, 2 of them from Esquerra, so sensible that you voted for them unanimously too: the execution of investments in Catalonia and the strengthening of the Marine Rescue service. [[Applauds]] The two of us, but the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, voted 593 out of 1134. That you have voted more than half of the amendments tabled by Esquerra, Junts per Catalunya and PDECAT! [[Applauds]] If we have crossed the black line with the 'indepes', what line have you crossed? Amnesia, Mr. Garcés. Amnesia. [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín utters words that are not perceived]] Did it happen or didn't it? You have voted 593 times with the Catalan independenceists. A little common sense. Citizen's is even more remarkable. Mrs Arrimadas justifies her rejection of the budgets for our supposed support for the proposals of Junqueras, Otegi, for our support for additional provision 38, vehicle languages. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you have voted on the same 593 amendments by the Independenceists. More. From Puigdemont, you have voted 244 amendments, we none. Who are more friends than the 'indepes'? [[Protests.-Applause.]] More. Mrs Muñoz, friends of Otegi; we have supported 6 amendments by Bildu which have to do with the care of the cantabrian coast, with the training for employment in the Pyrenees. We, 6; you, 11. [[Applauds]] If we're friends with Otegi, what are you, brother-in-law, what would Mr. Rufian say? [[Laughter]] A little common sense! You're asking us for a constitutional recess. Be you constitutionalists, gentlemen of the PSOE, tell us. Financing of the Royal House: Section 1. There has only been one vote against Section 1 of the Royal House in this Parliament in the Committee on Budgets. Was it Mrs. Aizpurua? No, no, Was it Mr. Rufian? No, no, It was Mrs. Muñoz: Citizens voted against the funding of the Royal House, and are they going to give us constitutionalism lessons? If even Mr. Rufián had more constitutional responsibility than you! They tell us to choose and we have chosen... [[Denials by Mrs Martínez Granados]] [[Applauds]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u115	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u116	... to prepare extraordinary budgets for an extraordinary moment; and you have chosen - yes, you have chosen - to follow in the photo of Columbus with VOX and with the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. [[applause.-Mrs.Muñoz Vidal: Man, the photo of Columbus has come out!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Simancas.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u118	I don't blame him, but don't give us any lessons. [[Prolonged applause from Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the ground]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-30-CD201130.u119	The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. It was eight and fifty minutes of the night.
