ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u1	The meeting was called to order. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, President. Today we hold a plenary meeting that is undoubtedly unusual. Unusual in its agenda because it is only the second time in more than forty-one years of the Constitution in which a Government reports to Congress the declaration of the state of alarm as provided for in article 116 of the Constitution. Unusual are also - in sight - the conditions under which we hold this session. The absence of most Members does not in any way imply a breach of their statutory duty to assist, but precisely compliance with the recommendations of the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen following the instructions of the health authorities to combat the effects of the extension of the coronavirus. I wish to express at the beginning of this session on behalf of all those present and also of those absent our regret for the dead in this pandemic and our solidarity with their families and relatives. And I would finally like to convey our thanks, the individual of each of us and the institutional of the House representing all the citizens, all the health personnel who are fighting the disease on the front line, the members of the Armed Forces and the state security forces, those who care for us in the supermarkets, in the markets, in the pharmacies, those who clean our streets and all those who allow us to maintain essential services, including the workers of this house, whose effort and presence allows us to comply with the constitutional forecasts, and all those who continue to go to their jobs every day in this health emergency situation; to all of them, thank you very much. [[Applauds]] ACTS RELATING TO THE STATES OF ALARM, EXCEPTION AND SITE: - No, no, no, COMMUNICATION FROM THE GOVERNMENT FOLLOWING THE REAL DECISION 463/2020 OF 14 MARCH, DECLARING THE STATE OF ALARM FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE HEALTH CRISIS SITUATION OCCUPIED BY COVID-19. [[File number 091/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u2	On 16 March, the Government informed the Congress of the Deputies of the adoption of Royal Decree 463/2020, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the health crisis caused by COVID-19. Yesterday, the Government sent Royal Decree 465/2020 of 17 March, amending Royal Decree 463/2020. These royal decrees, which were issued pursuant to article 116.2 of the Constitution, were transferred to the Constitutional Commission. For its part, pursuant to Rule 165 of the Rules of Procedure and for the purposes of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, this Presidency convened the plenary session of the Congress, which is now under way. I give the floor, first of all, to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with where the President of Congress has finished, conveying on behalf of all Spanish society the greatest sorrow and affection to the relatives and friends of the people who died from the coronavirus pandemic. People, moreover, who have died most of the time in solitude. Family members who, within the framework of loneliness, have had to say goodbye to their loved ones without being able to approach them. People who couldn't see their grandchildren. Family members who have not been able to go to a tanatory or a funeral in company. This disease, besides being silent, is cruel because it punishes us in the quality that makes us more human: our need to live together, think together and act together, in community. I would also like to send - as has been said earlier - forces and desires for early recovery to those who have been diagnosed with positive COVID-19. The virus does not distinguish between ideologies, classes, or territories, it is hitting us all, our parents, our grandparents, our couples, our children, our friends, our loved ones. All of them, all of them, we keep them constantly in mind, for all of them we work constantly, in the hope of their early recovery. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing an unprecedented challenge: an unknown pandemic that has spread with unusual speed all over the planet; a threat to global public health that does not understand borders, colors or languages; an extraordinary challenge that forces us to take exceptional measures. We face a virus that has changed our way of acting, thinking, organizing, ultimately living together. A virus that is testing the basic pillars of our family, that reaps human lives but also destroys companies, that brings us the doubt whether we will finish our studies this year, how we will relate when all this happens, or what will happen to our job. A virus that puts us in the face of uncertainty about our employment, about our health, ultimately about our future. We've never experienced anything like it. And our society, which had become accustomed to incorporating changes that broadened the possibilities of knowledge, enjoyment, health and life, is now waging a war to defend what we already gave by the way, by the way: the security of moving in freedom, the freedom to relate in proximity. Sometimes, ladies and gentlemen - and this happens a lot in the history of humanity - we can be confused by choosing our enemy. But our enemy, that of all of us, is clear: it is a virus that must be faced with responsibility, with discipline, with strength and with all the strength and resources of our public system; with all the weight of our action as a society. A few decades ago it was said that there is no society, that there are only men and women. Well, it was a lie. If anyone still hesitated, now they have the proof. Yes, there is society. There you go. Out there, confined and united in the common struggle; demanding the strength of the public, of the collective, to end a terrible virus. Ladies and gentlemen, although you all know the background, I want to contextualise what is happening to us. At the end of December 2019, the first cases of death by COVID-19 in Wuhan Province of China came to light. Since then, hundreds of thousands of people spread across over a hundred countries have been infected by the virus. In January 2020, the Government of Spain alerted and attended to those who know the most: scientists. The entire Government, through the Minister of Health, faithfully followed the guidelines and recommendations of the experts and activated a protocol for health monitoring and continuous information transparency. Dr. Fernando Simón, who for almost eight years has been running the Center for the Coordination of Alerts and Health Emergencies, has explained on numerous occasions that this type of virus exposes us to dynamic and changing scenarios that reconfigure, therefore, our response to the situation permanently. During February and the first week of March we were in a phase of containment that then became a reinforced containment. Then, the circumstances demanded that we move to a mitigation phase, for which it was necessary to resort to an exceptional legal instrument that contemplates our Constitution, which is the state of alarm, to which I will refer extensively later. At a mitigation stage, three objectives are pursued. First, to put forward the protection of those most at risk of suffering the most severe forms of the disease, i.e. the elderly and those who suffer from previous chronic diseases that make them more vulnerable. Secondly, to maximize the capacity of the public health system by protecting health professionals and those who cover basic services. Thirdly, to protect the entire population by supporting basic hygiene measures with new measures of maximum social distance that avoid encounters between people and thus reduce the possibilities of transmission. All this naturally stems from the economic, social and public-order consequences which they know and which require a coordinated, centralized intervention which is unique in our democratic history and which is fully justified by a common interest of the highest priority, that is, the safeguarding of the health of all citizens and the protection of our productive resources through the activation of all our collective institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at the country we are looking at, we must compare our situation from a clear starting point: Spain is at the forefront of the most effective and robust health systems in the world. This is not a matter of opinion, it is corroborated by reports such as the Johns Hopkins University Global Health Security Index, or the World Health Organization's health efficiency ranking. Because as I said before, health does not understand colors, ideologies, or territories. The pandemic has expanded by more than 150 countries and is already present on the five continents. It affects political representatives of any ideology, celebrities of any sector and anonymous citizens of any origin, race, gender or age. A human challenge of these dimensions can only be met from the maximum mobilization of all available resources and under the basic principle of unity of action; a unity of action that appeals to us all, above the acronyms. We are faced with a health, social and economic emergency that demands that we live up to the circumstances and value public services as the whole of Spanish citizenship is doing, more than ever, and from its windows. That is the message I conveyed to the group of autonomous presidents by videoconference last Sunday. A very relevant appointment in which we achieved a triple achievement: to bring together all autonomous communities and cities for the first time since 2009, to ensure a weekly periodicity of the call and to close ranks around the common battle against the coronavirus. I have also talked with the main leaders of the opposition parties to listen to their suggestions and agree that it is time for coordination, cooperation and solidarity. To all of them, to all of them, I would also like to extend my thanks. It is the moment of our public system, ladies and gentlemen, of our public services, the time to awaken and recognize the value of our health, because by defending it and strengthening it we are strengthening and defending the dam of containment to deal with any adversity. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain, like the rest of the world, has already experienced many health crises, some of them very recent. After the AIDS pandemic in the 1980s we suffered the Ebola crisis in 2014, or the crises of avian influenza and mad cows. The last pandemic declared by the World Health Organization was influenza A, in 2009, which lasted a little over a year and left hundreds of thousands dead worldwide. From all these public health emergencies we can draw some conclusions. First, that each of them has its singularities and that they manifest themselves in ways so variable that they make it difficult to predict. Secondly, the experience gained in previous crises can only be partially exploited in the current crises. Thirdly, the only common rules for action that can always be established are the following: Firstly, the subordination of scientists and experts to the mandate. Secondly, coordination between different administrations. And thirdly, the unity of action around the common goal. In this context, we can assure that the COVID-19 pandemic has overstretched everyone's predictions, starting with the World Health Organization itself, which last March 7th said: 'We must stop, contain, control, delay and reduce the impact of this virus at every opportunity we have. All people are able to contribute to this effort, to protect themselves, to protect others, whether at home, in the community, in the health care system, in the workplace or in the transport system.' Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that we remember what the experts have told us over and over again, that the response to COVID-19 is not static, it is dynamic. Depending on the stage we are in, we must respond. On 7 March, the World Health Organization publicly distributed health management manuals highlighting the same idea, that the scenarios of action would be adapted to the case studies of each context according to the phase of spread of the virus. On March 9, two days later, the Director General of this body, Dr.Tedros Adhanom, publicly endorsed Spain as an example of a government approach to the fight against COVID-19. On 11 March, two days later, the same day that the World Health Organization declared the coronavirus a global pandemic, it also sent a clear message to all States. He said: 'All countries must strike a good balance between protecting health, minimizing social and economic costs and respecting human rights'. And that is how I wanted to proceed, ladies and gentlemen; from this principle of weighting between the exquisite compliance with scientific indications, the prevention of socio-economic alarm and the maximum guarantee of compliance with our social and democratic State of law. Human beings often succumb to what is known as retrospective bias. It consists in that once people know the outcome of an event they tend to think they might have predicted that outcome in advance. It is obvious that with what we know today the world would not have acted in the same way yesterday. It is obvious that if China had known the consequences of the outbreak it would have acted differently. It is obvious that France would not have held the first round of local elections if it had known that it should cancel the second round two days later. The state of alarm was decreed when it was certain that it was essential and only then. Because the rights it restricts and the assets it puts at stake are valuable enough to be preserved until the last moment. What must be preventive and anticipatory, ladies and gentlemen, working as a containment dam for pandemics such as that of the coronavirus, is our welfare state. Dique of health containment, of course, with a public health well dimensioned and well implanted throughout the territory. That is why I would like to announce to you, ladies and gentlemen, that when this emergency situation passes - which is going to happen - the Government will promote a study and evaluation committee that will rigorously analyse the situation of public health in our country and draw up a white paper in order to make the necessary adjustments and changes. [[Applauds]] This may be the first lesson of this emergency: let us protect our public health system and strengthen our welfare state. It is the most precious good we have as a country, it is the greatest conquest of our democracy, together with itself, with democracy. It is the greatest collective achievement we treasure and we have to defend it. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot continue to refuse, or distort, the link between the welfare state and its financing. We cannot continue to ignore that good health requires a rational and very efficient use of resources, but it also requires funding that can only provide a fair and also efficient tax system. There is no powerful public health system without a fair tax system. Let's never forget it. When an emergency like this arrives, we realize, more clearly than ever, the deficiencies, but the deficiencies exist every day. One of the few positive effects that coronavirus can have is that it educates us all, as a community, as a country, as a nation, as a society in the end, that we must radically reverse the trend. Ladies and gentlemen, more welfare is more security and more collective protection. The emergency we are experiencing not only has a health dimension, this being logically the most important, it also has a social dimension and an economic dimension. Over the past few weeks, more than nine million children and young people have interrupted their classes. Another lesson we must learn from an emergency like the present is that we must strive for the maximum implementation of distance education, using the virtualities of technology. All experts agree that - with emergencies or without health emergencies - these distance learning tools must be operational as soon as possible, because they constitute the future of education. This social emergency also reaches out to dependent people, who also belong to the risk groups of this health emergency to a large extent. And all of us here know that dependence, which is the fourth pillar of the welfare state, has never reached the status of dignity it deserves. He's never stopped having long waiting lists. There have never ceased to be people who died without their application being resolved. There has never been, in short, an insufficient application - let us acknowledge - of this law. The current situation has aggravated the situation, because the closure of day centres or the incommunicado detention of persons who were cared for by family members are seriously disrupted in circumstances that are already very complicated. This emergency puts us before the mirror of many shortcomings, of many deficiencies, and one of them is precisely the delay in the full implementation of the Dependency Act that we will have to remedy throughout this legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, the current health emergency is also an economic emergency. The transitional contraction of a large part of our production system and the closure of international borders which we have decreed at European level and which logically has a trade dimension and which will suffer throughout the world will have serious effects on the economy and employment; it is already having them. As the Minister of the Interior announced last Monday, Spain has also closed its land borders and will only allow residents or cross-border citizens to enter. And although the closure does not affect the transport of goods, it is not excluded that it is extended to air or sea borders. It is therefore clear that the annual gross domestic product will fall, as the European Commission has already indicated. Ladies and gentlemen, 2020 will not have twelve months, but ten, or even nine. But the good news - moderate good news, if I may, ladies and gentlemen - is that this emergency will depend on the paralysis of the situation. That is, if we could sustain the levels of employment and the productive structure without irreparable serious damage over the duration of the crisis, there would be a rapid recovery at the end of the crisis, including a possible rebound effect that will accelerate the activity. The aim of the Government - and of all the autonomous communities within its sphere of competence - is precisely to help self-employed women workers, small and medium-sized enterprises, in short, our productive fabric, which are the ones with the least capacity for financial resistance, to endure this trance. And of course, the Government of Spain aims to ensure that families, especially the most vulnerable or those who have become vulnerable as a result of this trance, do not suffer situations of helplessness. Efforts will be made to curb evictions and alleviate energy poverty and child poverty. We have been very clear from the beginning: we would do what was needed, when it was needed and where it was needed. The horizon is to beat the virus and start rebuilding once we eliminate it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has already been acting since last 10 March by adopting the first measures of an economic and public health nature, on the 12th day another royal decree-law to strengthen the health field, support families, entrepreneurs and tourism, and yesterday Tuesday, 17 March, a comprehensive package of new measures that aim to address with determination the economic and social consequences arising from the COVID-19. In particular, on 10 March, we adopted a first royal decree-law with a package of measures which included, for example, for people in situations of special vulnerability, suspension of launches until 2024 and an extension of the definition of this concept, in order to include single-parent families with one child. To ensure the supply of products, enabling the State to carry out the centralised supply of medicines, health products and other products necessary for health protection. And for the protection of the health of workers, the recognition of periods of isolation or contagion of the virus as a situation assimilated to an accident at work for the purpose of the economic benefit for temporary incapacity of the Social Security System. Within two days of approving this first battery of measures, the Government adopted on 12 March a plan of exceptional measures to mitigate the impact of COVID-19, which will mobilise up to EUR 18 225 million during this year, approved by a new royal decree-law of urgent measures, with measures to strengthen the health field, support families, the tourism sector and entrepreneurs in general, and make management of the Administration more flexible. I will give you details of your most relevant measures. Firstly, in support of the health sector: we approve an extraordinary credit in the Ministry of Health to cover extraordinary expenses of our National Health System, for the amount of EUR 1 billion. We update the deliveries on account of the financing system of the Autonomous Communities, we amend the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicines so that the Government can, in an exceptional health situation such as the one we are living in, fix the maximum amount of sale to the public of medicines and health products not subject to medical prescription, as well as of other products necessary for the protection of population health that are provided in Spanish territory. Secondly, in support of families: we set up grants for children who are recipients of a scholarship or canteen aid who are affected by the closure of educational establishments, while the centres remain closed. These aids will be managed by social services for primary care, in coordination with schools and autonomous communities. To finance these aid, a credit supplement of EUR 25 million has been granted in the budget of the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 from the Contingency Fund. On the other hand, we decided that educational administrations could adapt and make the minimum school-day limit more flexible in the school calendar in compulsory education. And exceptionally, we recognized as an accident-related situation the periods of isolation or contagion of staff within the special regimes of civil servants, as we did two days before with the workers of the General Social Security Regime. Thirdly, in support of the tourism sector: we widened the funding line we adopted a few months ago to alleviate the effects of the Thomas Cook tourism group's insolvency proceedings on businesses and self-employed persons with a registered office in Spain. In addition, we double the budget allocation of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism to guarantee 50% of the appropriations provided for the ICO line, which has increased from EUR 100 million to EUR 200 million. And we have adopted measures to support the extension of the period of activity of workers with fixed, discontinuous contracts in the tourism and trade and hospitality sectors linked to tourism, with a 50% bonus in business shares to Social Security during the months of February, March, April, May and June. Fourthly, in support of entrepreneurs: we postpone six months' tax debts of persons or entities with a volume of operations not exceeding EUR 6 million in 2019 corresponding to declarations or self-liquidations whose deadline for submission runs until 30 May 2020. On the other hand, we have made the conditions of the beneficiaries of loans granted by the General Secretariat of Industry and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises more flexible as financial support for industrial projects so that they can request the extraordinary postponement of their repayment schedule. And fifth, finally, in support of the agility of response of the public administrations and the Government of Spain: we expedite the procedure for the procurement by the General Administration of State of all kinds of goods and services that are necessary. Given the current budgetary context for the extension of the General State Budgets, we will have exceptional mechanisms to allow the transfer of resources between budget sections in order to be able to meet all the needs presented, preserving budgetary stability. We empower the Ministry of Finance to make transfers between the different budget sections in order to strengthen the financing of what is most important, more urgent, such as health policy by the State. We approved the possibility of holding by electronic means the Councils of Ministers and the General Commission of Secretaries of State and Assistant Secretaries. No one should be released from this emergency. No one shall be left to his own fate. No one can stay behind. The Government of Spain protects all Spaniards. Therefore, we will prove that we are a community and that the social pact we share is to care for each other through what unites us, which is the public. The second announcement I want to make to you, in addition to the evaluation committee, is that the Spanish Government will present budgets for social and economic reconstruction and that we want the support and collaboration of all political forces for their approval. I repeat: we are talking about rebuilding our country economically and socially. There will be time for opposition. We are at the beginning of the legislature and we will do so when we have overcome the virus and assessed the economic and social impact of this emergency. Therefore, we will present budgets for social and economic reconstruction after the end of the health emergency resulting from COVID-19. They must be, ladies and gentlemen, general extra-social budgets. The evidence and experience throughout the twentieth century shows us which direction we should go and where we do not and should not go. We must move towards the protection and security of our welfare State, the strengthening of public services and our National Health System, the defence of our economy and the protection of our families and businesses. Social and economic reconstruction budgets designed to provide security and protection for all citizens. Citizenship must feel safe. No one can stay behind. And we, on behalf of all, on behalf of the State, have to guarantee that. We can guarantee that. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a global emergency, we must also take comprehensive measures. That is why we have always worked together with international bodies. Yesterday we held a European Council and made mine, as President of the Government, the message of the whole of the Spanish citizenry of maximum demand, maximum urgency and need to give a common European response to the social and economic emergency that we are suffering. In the national response last Thursday, in an extraordinary Council of Ministers held on Saturday, we decree, as has been said here and is the subject of the appearance, the state of alarm, and yesterday, in the Council of Ministers, we adopted a powerful package of economic measures, unprecedented in the democratic history of our country; decisions that I trust will count on the confidence and the validation of the House. The state of alarm was decreed by virtue of article 4(b) of Organic Law 4/1981 of 1 June of the states of alarm, exception and site, which empowers the Government, in the exercise of the powers conferred on it by article 116.2 of the Constitution, to declare the state of alarm in all or part of the national territory when there are health crises that result in serious alterations to normalcy. In this context, the measures adopted have been framed in the determined action of the Government of Spain, firstly, to protect the health and safety of citizens; secondly, to contain the progression of the disease, curbing the infection curve, and thirdly, to strengthen the public health system, as I have been reiterating during all the appearances I have been developing over the past few days. It is a question, ladies and gentlemen, of protecting, strengthening and ensuring our welfare, our health system and all the public services of our country. On a proposal from the Minister of Health, the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, on a proposal from the Minister of Defence and the Ministers of the Interior and Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, after deliberation of the Council of Ministers at the meeting of 14 March 2020, ordered, as President of the Government of Spain, the adoption of the Royal Decree 463/2020, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by the COVID-19, which entered into force immediately after its publication in the Official Gazette of the State. The measures contained in this royal decree are harsh, very demanding, but they are essential to deal with the situation and, consequently, are proportionate to the extreme gravity in which we find ourselves. First, the declaration of the state of alarm affects the entire national territory for fifteen days, as established by the Spanish Constitution - we have already been four days -; since its approval the competent authority throughout the country is the Government of Spain, and, as you know, this period may be extended, with the authorization of the Congress of Deputies - with its support, ultimately, ladies and gentlemen - if necessary. The following persons are also competent authorities delegated in their respective areas of responsibility: the Minister of Defence, Margarita Robles; the Minister of the Interior, Fernando Grande-Marlaska; the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, José Luis Ábalos, and the Minister of Health, Salvador Illa. In those areas of responsibility that do not fall within the competence of one of the ministers I have mentioned the delegated competent authority is the Minister of Health, Salvador Illa. Therefore, all of them are empowered, as is already happening, and we are communicating this, to dictate the agreements, resolutions, provisions and interpretative instructions that are necessary in the specific field of their action to ensure the health of all citizens and also the safety of the whole country. Secondly, the State Security Forces and Corpses, all the police forces of the autonomous communities that have their own police and local corporations for the purposes of this royal decree are under the direct orders of the Minister of the Interior, and therefore also the services of intervention and assistance in civil protection emergencies defined in the National Civil Protection System operate under the functional dependence of the Minister of the Interior. In addition, we are at the disposal of the Armed Forces. Each administration - the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence - will retain the powers conferred on it by the legislation in force in the ordinary management of its services in order to take such measures as it deems necessary, but always, and I would like to stress this, within the framework of the direct orders of the competent authority, which is the Government of Spain. Thirdly, during the period of the state of alarm, people will only be able to circulate through public channels for activities that have been perfectly delimited and are detailed in the royal decree that I bring to the House. It must be circulated individually, except for those persons with difficulty of mobility, who can be accompanied, and also yesterday we gave an order to extend the case in this matter. In addition, the movement of private vehicles by public means will be permitted for the performance of these activities and, of course, also for refuelling at gas stations or service stations. And, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you in this respect that there are people who are living with people they do not wish to live with; I am referring in particular to women who are victims of gender-based violence, who are living with their abusers. They live a double threat: the threat of macho violence, because they are women, and the threat of the virus. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also our responsibility to protect them. [[Applauds]] Fourthly, in the field of education, and as you already know, school and university activities are suspended in all schools, at all stages, cycles, degrees, courses and levels of education. During the period of suspension, educational activities will be maintained through distance and online arrangements whenever possible. Fifthly, all retail trade is suspended, except for food, beverages, products and goods of primary need, pharmaceutical, medical, optical, orthopaedic, hygienic, press, fuel, ponds, technological and telecommunications equipment, pet food, dyeing and internet, telephone or mail-order trade; also in this case, we have increased the number of cases, for example to veterinary clinics. Any other activity or establishment which may pose a risk of contagion is suspended, the possibility of consumption of products in the establishments themselves is suspended and agglomerations will be avoided, ensuring that consumers and employees maintain the safety distance recommended by the health authorities at least one metre. Sixthly, in the context of culture and sport - and in this area I want to convey a message of empathy to the athletes who are preparing for the 2020 Olympics and who are in their homes - the opening to the public of museums, archives, libraries, monuments, locals and establishments in which public shows, sports and leisure activities, as well as the activities of hospitality and restoration - the cafes and restaurants will remain closed to the public - and the parades and popular festivals will also be suspended. Seventhly, attendance at places of worship and civil and religious ceremonies is conditional on the adoption of organisational measures to avoid agglomerations of people. Eighthly, it is our obligation to take immediate measures to strengthen the National Health System throughout the national territory. All the civil authorities of the public administrations of the national territory, and in particular the health authorities, as well as the other civil servants and workers in the service, are under the direct control of the Minister of Health. The autonomous and local public administrations will maintain the management, within their area of competence, of the relevant health services, ensuring at all times their proper functioning, as has been the case so far, and all civil, military, public and private health facilities are made available to the Ministry of Health. In this sense and in ninth place, for the purpose of ensuring the supply of goods and services necessary for the protection of public health, the Minister of Health shall, as he has been doing, provide the services necessary to ensure the supply of the market; may intervene and temporarily occupy industries, factories, workshops, farms or premises of any kind, including private health centres, services and establishments, and may apply temporary requisitions or impose compulsory personal benefits. Firstly, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda is empowered to issue agreements, resolutions and provisions which, in the specific field of its activities, are necessary to ensure the provision of regular or extraordinary mobility services in order to protect persons, goods and places. In particular, the Government has wanted to maintain 100 % of rail services in the vicinity, public transport of road, rail and sea passengers, and half of rail services in the middle of the distance, regular road and sea passenger transport services. Orders were also issued yesterday regarding Ceuta, Melilla, the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands. At this point, I would also like to give you details of the various orders, resolutions and instructions that are being issued by the four ministers designated as competent delegated authorities. In particular, the Minister of Health has approved three orders to strengthen our National Health System both from the point of view of the human resources available in such extraordinary circumstances as the current ones, and, in particular, has ordered the following subjects: the extension of the recruitment of resident doctors in the last year of training of certain medical specialties - and of nursing also - especially critical in the fight against the COVID-19, such as geriatrics, intensive medicine, microbiology and parasitology; the rotations of resident doctors have been suspended, so that they can provide services in those units where there is a need for a reinforcement of the staff; it may be possible to reintegrate resident doctors from an autonomous community to another that has greater assistance needs for the redistribution of assistance throughout the territory, and it may be possible to hire in an extraordinary way and in some cases to persons with a degree or degree of degree in Medicine, even though they lack the qualification of a specialist; it may be possible to reintegrate to medical professionals, nurses and nurses who also have the support of students of the last years under the supervision of the supervision of the supervision of all kinds of medical personnel, with the supervision, in order, in order and in order of the final conditions, in order of the supervision, in order of the last conditions, in order of medical personnels, in order to perform In the face of an emergency such as that of COVID-19, which is dynamic as I have said, if due to the progression or impact of the epidemic it is necessary, the health authorities of each autonomous community will be able to have private health centres and facilities and their personnel, as well as work accident mutuals to supplement the public system in order to meet the needs of the population. Health facilities may also be provided in public or private premises for the provision of health care in consultation and hospitalization. In any case, coordination between the Autonomous Communities and the Ministry of Health will be carried out at all levels, as is already being done, so that they will have to provide the epidemiological information available to them, communicate their assistance capacity at all times, as well as the needs for existing resources and the availability of certain products related to diagnosis, protection and hygiene, such as masks, glasses, alcohols or diagnostic kits. For its part, the Minister of the Interior, as the competent delegated authority, has issued four ministerial orders. First, criteria have been established for the action of members of the security forces and bodies in the state of alarm, both of the state forces and bodies and of the autonomous police and local agents. In addition, to ensure legal certainty, the measures of the state of alarm to be enforced by the Security Forces and the sanctioning regime and procedure for their non-compliance were compiled. Better coordination of all civil protection and emergency services in this health crisis has also been envisaged, constituting a State coordination committee, with the participation of the councillors of the autonomous communities and government delegations. A system for communicating the status and maintenance of civil protection and emergency measures has also been established. For the protection of prisoners from the epidemic, a number of measures have been taken in relation to inmates in all State prisons. Finally, and as you already know, in coordination with our European partners, controls have been temporarily re-established at the borders of France and Portugal to try to curb the expansion of COVID-19. The Minister of Defence, also a competent delegated authority in her field of action, has placed our Armed Forces at the service of the citizenry and issued two instructions. First, the Emergency Military Unit, which is so often modelled on its role in the face of particularly difficult situations, has been activated for reconnaissance work and is operational in various cities. In addition, other military capabilities, such as ground logistics, air transport and medicalized air transport, air traffic control, maritime navigation, ports and airports, logistical accommodation, as well as the establishment of military camps and the General Defence Health Inspectorate, have also been made available to the operation in the face of the pandemic. All these units will be at the service of the crisis management authorities until the crisis is over. As it cannot be otherwise, knowing the vocation of service of our Armed Forces, all the military will be in permanent availability for service. In addition, on-reserve personnel may also be available, specifically including military health personnel, which may be required by the health authorities if the care needs so require. All personnel of the military health network are in a position to join their destination as soon as required and with the delivery that characterizes them, that is, reducing their permits to the minimum necessary. And under the leadership of JEMAD, a coordination centre has been set up in which military authorities and commanders will be integrated for the better coordination of available capabilities and in permanent contact with the other delegated authorities competent in this crisis. The Ministry of Defence will also support the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 and social services for the protection of the homeless and in Shabolist settlements throughout the national territory. Finally, but not least logically, the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has adopted five other ministerial orders in exercise of his authorization. First, the public transport service has been adapted to the situation arising from COVID-19 and each competent autonomous and local authority has been empowered to set the percentages for reducing public transport services in accordance with the reality of the existing mobility needs and the evolution of the health situation, thereby ensuring that citizens are able to access their jobs and basic services if necessary. A number of measures have been adopted for workers in certain professional sectors, such as drivers to provide catering services during their working hours, or for workers and passengers in public airfields to provide facilities that are essential for meeting their essential needs, but with appropriate containment measures. It has also been ensured for the protection of the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla, which has led to the limitation of helicopter flights and the landing of scheduled service vessels, ensuring the supply and medical flights - this issue, that of Ceuta and Melilla and also of the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands, which has been extended and revised yesterday -. Finally, mandatory information messages have been established in the online ticket sales processes, stating that travel is not advisable except for reasons that cannot be postponed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to send a message of absolute tranquillity because the Government of Spain is guaranteeing food supply in all supermarkets and grocery stores, as well as the supply of electricity, natural gas and petroleum products. I would also like to inform you that all critical infrastructures are taking the necessary steps to ensure the provision of essential services which are their own. This same requirement will also be assured for those companies and suppliers which, without considering critical infrastructures, are essential to ensure the supply of the population and the essential services themselves. The second decree we propose to validate in this House contains a set of economic measures that the Council of Ministers adopted yesterday in ordinary session that are absolutely aimed at maintaining the pulse of the economy during this parenthesis and at leaving no one behind. We must strengthen that response, provide protection from the blight of this brutal emergency and alleviate the consequences that this situation could create in our economic fabric. I shall then go on to detail the above-mentioned economic and social measures, which are going to involve the greater mobilization of economic resources in the democratic history of our country and, in addition, they will be carried out in a very short time. They will mobilize, as you know and I announced yesterday in a press conference, up to 200,000 million euros, that is, about 20% of our annual gross domestic product, and of this amount, 117 billion euros will be fully public, and the rest will be complemented by the mobilization of private resources. The Government will make a determined effort to respond to the magnitude of the emergency this health crisis poses for our country. The aim is to address the social and economic impacts without squandering resources in order to respond effectively to all those who need it most in this crisis. As I said yesterday, we are not going to leave anyone behind, let alone the most vulnerable, the elderly, the families with less resources, the workers and the self-employed, the small entrepreneurs, the social economy, the workers and the workers who depend on their payroll; they are all going to be protected for the duration of this crisis. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, measures have been adopted in four major areas, which I would like to share with you: firstly, measures to support families in the most vulnerable situation; secondly, measures to support all workers; thirdly, measures to support businesses in our country, to ensure the flow of credit, of payments from businesses and also from self-employed people; and, fourthly, measures to support scientific and medical research against COVID-19. In support of the most vulnerable families, we will allocate EUR 600 million to the financing of basic benefits from the corresponding social services of the autonomous communities and local authorities, with particular attention to the health care of the elderly and dependents, who are unfortunately vulnerable groups for this pandemic. We will ensure that protection reaches the greatest possible coverage, and we will also extend protection to energy and water supplies, ensuring essential public services and also telecommunications services. We will also guarantee the right to housing for the most difficult people through the adoption of a moratorium on the payment of mortgage fees for mortgage debtors in a situation of special vulnerability who see their income reduced as a result of this crisis. The goal is that no person should be released from their home for going through a difficult economic situation, but that it will be short-term. In support of all workers, we will strengthen employment protection. To that end, we have adopted a series of measures aimed at preventing a temporary crisis - I would like to underline temporarily - from becoming permanent. To this end, we will allow wage earners to adapt or reduce their working hours in order to meet the need arising from this crisis to also reconcile and care for minors, who are older or dependent on them. We will also promote teleworking when circumstances permit. And we have arranged that, through the flexibility of ERTs, staffing adjustments can be made temporarily, for the duration of the crisis, in order to prevent dismissal from being the mechanism for companies; without a doubt, these ERTs will benefit workers. The established instrument will be to consider the coronavirus crisis as a cause of force majeure for its approval. In addition, workers will be entitled to the unemployment benefit, even if they do not meet the required prior contribution requirement. In addition, the recovery of this benefit will not compute them for the purpose of the subsequent recovery of the unemployment benefit and their approval will be speeded up and workers will receive their benefits as quickly as possible. And for the group of self-employed we have approved to facilitate access to the cessation of activity, which will be compatible with the exemption of the payment of social security contributions and also with the benefit of the ERTE with which the workers count. We want those self-employed and self-employed who are significantly reduced in income to be able to receive the cessation benefit, and we therefore make it easier for self-employed and self-employed to be able to receive a benefit quickly in the event of economic difficulties. Ladies and gentlemen, the measures adopted put flexibility, shorter working hours, conciliation and suspension of contracts as an option against dismissal of workers. We want jobs to be maintained; hence the appeal I made to entrepreneurs yesterday: that companies know that the government will help them overcome this temporary crisis - and I stress the temporary crisis - but that they will continue to need their workers when we overcome this crisis and economic activity, as a result, to regain normalcy. During the ERTE, the employer will be exempted from the business contribution of the social security contributions in order to relieve the financial burdens of the companies and to recover employment as soon as possible. In support of businesses and the self-employed and in order to ensure their liquidity, we have approved the necessary liquidity for our companies to maintain their operation for the duration of this temporary crisis. A temporary liquidity problem cannot become a solvency problem, so we are going to guarantee liquidity to solvent companies to maintain employment and economic activity. To this end, a line of guarantees and public guarantees worth up to EUR 100 billion has been approved, which will enable us to mobilise between EUR 150 billion and EUR 200 billion in our economic system by integrating the private sector. The State will be the guarantor of operations. In addition, support lines amounting to EUR 2 billion have been approved for exporting companies, with agile mechanisms and especially favouring small and medium-sized enterprises. An extraordinary measure has also been adopted for farms affected by drought which have benefited from loans, which are temporarily extended. In addition, we will speed up the implementation of several programmes to support digitisation, R & D of small and medium-sized enterprises that will facilitate the deployment of telework. Finally, in order to prevent companies from countries outside the European Union from being able to control Spanish entities in strategic sectors by taking advantage of the short-term fall in the value of their actions in this crisis situation, we have reformed the rules on external investment. Finally, in support of scientific and medical research against COVID-19, we commit ourselves to scientific research for the development of a vaccine and a definitive cure for coronavirus. Therefore, among other measures, we will allocate resources worth 30 million euros to the Higher Council of Scientific Research and the Carlos III Institute of Health in order to make progress in finding a vaccine against COVID-19. Ladies and gentlemen, on the health front, the collective effort to stop the virus - I said it in some other way - has the following milestones. The first will be to bend the curve, to overcome the peak of disease propagation. There are still days to reach this moment, but the sooner we get to that point the closer we get to the final goal. The second milestone will be when the balance of medical discharges is higher than that of new infected; weeks will pass between the first and the second moment, but I am also convinced that we will reach it. We'll be close to victory over the virus when the contagions drop into bites, at the same speed as they do today. This will be the third milestone of this battle and will come after reaching the first two. And victory will be total when we have a vaccine to prevent and eliminate the infection. Similarly, on the economic front, the first milestone will be to stop the fall of production and the destruction of employment; the second milestone will be to double that fall curve, and the goal will be to start recovery as soon as the health emergency is behind, relaunching the economy, that is, our production and our employment so that the exit from the economic emergency in which we are immersed is in form V, and not in L, so that the fall is followed by a recovery, and not a stagnation. Ladies and gentlemen, I said this at the beginning of my speech and I think it is the shared feeling of all Spanish citizens and I am convinced that also of the parliamentary forces present here - we all have a common enemy, which is the virus, and we are facing it with all the weight of the state and of our public services. Therefore, allow me to make an appeal. I am calling first of all to political unity, a message that I have heard in the last week, and which I want to bring to this House today with the solemnity that the occasion deserves. A pandemic of these characteristics does not respect maps, administrations or parties. A pandemic like the present does not distinguish colors or ideas or borders. A pandemic like this is an enemy of all, and for all it must be fought through union and collective responsibility. As President of the Government of Spain, I have repeatedly appreciated the positive response given by the various public officials. Overcoming distances and disagreements to join forces in a battle like the one we now wage is something that reconciles us all with the exercise of politics understood in its highest and noblest expression. This Government has absolute confidence in the excellence of our regional and local administrations, and I would like to underline it and acknowledge it before you. Each and every one of them is highly prepared to assume in an impeccable manner the work that they do in managing an unprecedented crisis and following the three principles, which I have outlined in various appearances, of coordination, cooperation and collaboration. That is why it is imperative that we remain on this path. Our preferences and priorities have changed completely, ladies and gentlemen. We are in an absolutely different scenario from everything we have known so far and, as public officials, we are subject to the highest level of demand on the part of the citizenry. Just as we demand discipline and responsibility from all citizens and they are showing us with generosity, professionalism and civicism their best version, we must strive to be able to live up to our citizens by giving all our effort and all our time, contributing, in short, with the maximum height of vision and sense of state. Ladies and gentlemen, together with the call for political unity, the second call I would like to make, once again, is to the citizens' unity. I understand perfectly the shock the country is experiencing, I understand it perfectly: a country confined in their homes, where children draw encouraging hope, where their singers invite domestic concerts, where networks unite us to be stronger. We therefore need the State, because the State embodies an essential part of the strength of the community. But the community also has other forces that must be mobilized, that are being mobilized. We need the support of the state, the support of the public; that is clear, it is obvious. But we need much more: we need the support of the community as a whole. We must all make it easier for others to adapt to this transitional but very difficult period: the tenants face the tenants; the suppliers of goods and services face the receivers; the employers face the employees; the creditors face the debtors... Everyone, everyone, we must all be aware that we can occupy one or another position in each case. We must be understanding with others because we will all get out of this crisis faster, more united and stronger. That is also the value of the public, ladies and gentlemen, to which I am referring during this speech and which is the main message I would like to convey to all of you. That is also the way to build a great country like Spain: to stand up, reach out to others and make the sacrifices that are within our reach to win the battle against the virus and its consequences. The State will do all it can to overcome this situation together. Everything. But I want to appeal to the citizens to do their best. They are already doing so, like that Galician landlord who is responsible for the losses of his tenant or like those teachers who - we have seen in the media - give free lessons by video conference so that school work does not stop; like those young people who donate blood before they are confined or like those boys who offer to make the purchase to the elderly who live alone. Small and great gestures that are made with the most absolute and noble lack of pretension, only because of the courage to help the other in the midst of the storm. Take care of the elderly and children; double shifts; serve in the supermarket boxes; in the gas stations; in the nearby trains; the service of those who clean and disinfect... Let us look carefully, ladies and gentlemen, and find a country that has decided to resist, not surrender. A society like this can't stop anything, not even the most harmful virus. Because we all have a mission: we have - and at the highest level, ladies and gentlemen - health professionals who protect all of us; we have public administrations, which must provide them with resources and coordinate us; we have the elderly, who must extend their protection; we have young people, who must maintain social distance and contribute their creative energy; we also have every citizen taking care of himself and, consequently, taking care of the whole community. Because it is time for unity, responsibility and greater social discipline. We have to thank - and I do - before anyone else that little act of heroism consists of staying home. We know that the best talent in the world - and of course in our country - is dedicated to the achievement of a vaccine that will put an end to the threat of the virus and allow us to recover our lives. But as long as that is achieved, we also know that there is a solution in our hands. Until the vaccine arrives, we're the vaccine. Every person who stays at home adds up to earn lives. Each person who goes to work taking the precise precautions also helps to bend the curve. Each of us and ourselves is the firewall that can stop this fire and put an end to it as soon as possible. Each of us and we are saving lives with decisions as radical as simple, ladies and gentlemen: strictly follow the hygiene protocols and stay at home. We have to bend the curve. That is, ladies and gentlemen, our first objective. Today, in all the towns and cities of Spain, in our homes, in health centres and in hospitals, we are waging an immense battle against a virus that is endangering the health and well-being of all. I have no doubt that we will win this battle. We're not alone. The whole of humanity is in the same fight. And when we win, humans will not only have overcome this disease, but we will know more about viruses and how to fight them, we will be stronger. Humanity will be wiser. The women and men of our time are heirs of the Enlightenment. Reason and scientific knowledge, with all their limitations, are our best weapons, our only weapons. We are all confident that, soon, researchers will come up with the drugs that will help us overcome the disease and vaccines that will immunize us. Now the only effective instrument we have to defend ourselves against the virus is isolation and the will to overcome it together. We all began to have a more precise idea, ladies and gentlemen, of what we are facing. The hardest thing is still to come, when our health system receives the impact of the greatest number of people infected, when the days of isolation are accumulated, when the economic consequences of the emergency are manifested. I am asking, ladies and gentlemen - I know, I am very conscious -, sacrifice. I'm asking for union. I know what I'm asking, but nothing is capricious or free, but it's what needs to be done to save many loved ones, to save many businesses, to save our economy, to save our values, to save, in short, our way of living and enjoying life. We will come out strengthened from this situation, I have no doubt, having demonstrated what we are, what this great country is: a renewed society that walks together, that defends itself together, that protects itself together. Spain has demonstrated and is demonstrating that it has the capacity to recover from adversity, and we will do so together. Let no one doubt that this situation will happen, that we will rebuild our welfare state with solid pillars. That no one has any doubt that we will stand up and resume progress. We're going to leave the memory of this moment to the next generations. We are living it as a collective calamity, which is, and once overcome we will see it as a lesson learned, as a teaching of what we are capable of united. Our children, our daughters, from a future of new prosperity and hope, what they will remember is a great example of unity, of resistance, of collective struggle and of social greatness. In this virtually empty Chamber, as the President of Congress mentioned in her introduction, in this extraordinary session, ladies and gentlemen, the people we represent to the different political forces present here today, those who are and those who have not been able to be, we are something else today: we are not rivals, we are not adversaries: we are the representatives of all the citizens who are united today around a great goal, which is to win over the virus. We are also much more than 47 million people gathered in the same territory by chance: we are a community; we are a community. A community that with several languages and accents fights for the same cause, which is to stop and beat the virus. United. It will be so, ladies and gentlemen, as we will overcome it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u5	Thank you, ma'am, President. Ladies and gentlemen, our Nobel Prize in Medicine, Santiago Ramón and Cajal, said that for those who love the homeland, misery is a moral bond. We love Spain, a country that, like many others, is suffering the misery of the coronavirus, and that is why we must cherish a moral bond among all. That is why, Mr Sánchez, I tell you that you are not alone in the battle against this pandemic; to combat it you can count on the leader of the opposition and the People's Group. I say this to you in this empty Chamber, a symbol of the triumph of the institutions even in the worst circumstances, as a democratic antidote in the face of the worst sozobras in our history. There will be time here to resolve the responsibilities, negligence or delays in managing this crisis. The truth is that there has been a lack of self-criticism and humility on his part. He said that when this crisis is over there will be a committee of study, but he should have anticipated a committee of inquiry. In the meantime, we have proposed a follow-up parliamentary committee to also provide our knowledge and our full support for management these days. But now is the time to build those ties with the Spaniards, and the politicians the first, even those who did not have this behavior with us in other health, environmental or security crises and who, in our place, would perhaps be manifesting themselves in front of our homes and headquarters. You are the president of the government of a nation attacked by an invisible and relentless enemy, but unlike other serious crises of the past, this battle we face together. The Spanish people will be a great united family and we will support them in the measures to protect public health and to mitigate the economic and social repercussions, even in those measures that we may consider to be improveable or that are late. Now we must all shoulder and row in the same direction, also from the autonomous communities and municipalities governed by our party, which are acting with absolute institutional loyalty to the Government of the nation. From here I thank the autonomous presidents, the mayors, the deputy presidents of my party and everyone else, for their courage and responsibility to act before anyone else. Ladies and gentlemen, to this day the COVID-19 has already cost half a thousand compatriots their lives and has infected another twelve thousand, with several hundred hospitalized and dozens in critical condition. The first thing I want to do is to remind the victims and send all my affection to their families, who have also suffered the tear of not having been able to accompany their loved ones at the end of their lives. I also want to send all my encouragement to the sick and tell them that we are with them and that they have an excellent health system to protect them. Similarly, I would like to pay tribute to our heroes, heroes of white robes and green suits, the healthcare professionals, who are risking their health to take care of others under very hard working circumstances. They represent the best version of the Spanish people. Their dedication and dedication are our best mirror and all a national pride. From here I pledge to promote improvements in their pay and working conditions, and I ask the Government to do so now, especially with regard to residents. We also thank the military, police, civilian guards, pharmacists, restaurateurs and distributors, who look after our most basic needs. And I want to acknowledge the effort and responsibility of all Spaniards who are fighting this crisis from their homes, especially the most vulnerable, those who are alone or confined in less square meters, with fewer windows or with less pantry, those who have remained unemployed or families who are going through difficulties to reach the end of the month. I want to commit to them, we're not leaving anyone behind. We are all united in the face of adversity and it is essential to continue to comply with all the measures decreed by the authorities and to be in solidarity with those who need it. Here's our life on it. We have to stay at home, but don't forget that we have two houses, each one and everyone's, the one we call Spain. When we can get out of our home, the world we leave out when we close the door will be gone. By the end of this crisis, many things will have changed: economic and trade relations; our way of working, teaching, communicating, with an already complete digitization, and we will have to reorder the priorities of public spending to safeguard the welfare state. They will improve family and social relations and worsen the perception of exclusionary nationalist and populist ideologies. And the good symbiosis between the public and the private will be imposed, as well as the awareness of individual responsibility as an essential part of the collective common good. And in the meantime, what we have to do is fight a common enemy. We will fight in crowded hospitals, we will fight in empty streets and squares, we will fight from balconies, applauding with gratitude, we will fight from every workplace and every home and we will never give up. Mr President of the Government, today it fulfils its constitutional obligation to present to the Courts the decree declaring the state of alarm, which was finally adopted by the Council of Ministers on Saturday, after many incidents, and which corrected the Council of Ministers of yesterday, as we know from the media. From the People's Party we have supported him at all times, even without knowing the content of these measures. We had asked him from the beginning of this crisis for a single command to coordinate effectively the actions to tackle this serious crisis. As I told you in private and in public, you will find more loyalty in us than in your own government and investment partners. And if at any time they try to condition the implementation of an urgent and necessary measure for Spain, here you have our votes to approve it. For our part, he has always had what he has asked for. I do have to tell you that it does not seem fitting to us to include in such a sensitive decree for the Spaniards who are having a bad time the demand of their vice president to enter the CNI. The case is that he now has all the responsibility and extraordinary powers that constitutionally grants him the state of alarm. We only ask him not to shake his pulse and to use them with firmness and determination against the pandemic and against those who put obstacles to fighting it. We Spain do not care about a cumin or a radish, as we heard yesterday from one of its partners, and we will support you to guarantee public order and restrictions dictated without territorial or competitive limits, and we ask you to deploy the Army throughout the national territory without yielding to nationalist pressures. A pandemic does not include surnames, accents, languages, races, genders or postal codes. Now we must focus on everything that unites us and park the differences, especially the fictitious ones. This crisis will require putting aside the political sectarianism that has done us so much harm; it will require wisdom in economic governance; it will require telling the truth to the Spaniards, without clutter or warm cloths. Mr Sánchez, when the health catastrophe passes, the economic crisis will remain, which we must avoid leading to a social drama. At the meeting we had yesterday, I only asked the state not to leave any Spanish behind. Today you have taken advantage of this session to report on the Decree of economic measures to alleviate this crisis, and I anticipate you will have our support for its validation. I am grateful that you have considered several of the measures I proposed to you on Monday 9 and 16, starting with the public guarantee line of EUR 100 billion to guarantee credit to businesses - although we have not just understood how the 83 billion private sector will achieve it - and following up with the protection of workers suffering from ERTE, ERE, isolation losses or day-to-day reductions due to this crisis, as well as the unlocking of the surplus of local social aid agencies. For our part, the funds for vaccine research, the protection of supplies such as water and light and the mortgage moratorium, which I ask you to consider extending to the most vulnerable rents, seem very adequate. However, we are missing more support measures for self-employed people to cancel their fee if they do not enter during the cessation of activity. We also believe that a tax shock plan must be made, not only with postponements of VAT collection, but with exemptions from social security contributions, a reduction in corporate tax and the abolition of economic activities and establishments; and, of course, by cancelling all tax increases envisaged by his Government. Similarly, I call for more urgent resources so that the autonomous communities can increase their spending on health care, expand staffing and facilities and ensure the protection material of health professionals immediately. The Contingency Fund remains very short and with the advance of the deliveries on account they already counted. What they need is to be repaid the EUR 25 billion owed by the central government. In short, it has our support for the urgent implementation of these measures, with the request that it complement them as soon as possible, to reduce tax, labour, bureaucratic costs and expenditure that is not intended to overcome a future recession. We cannot limit action to a gigantic Plan E, because we have not only a crisis of demand, but a shock of supply. That is why we need deep fiscal stimulus and structural reforms to make our productive system more competitive and flexible, which is going to be devastated by a crisis that can lead to 10% of GDP and hundreds of thousands of jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, at this serious time, it is when we must feel most proud and grateful to live in a time and in a country that has the human, technical and scientific tools and capacities to defeat the pandemic, and with democratic institutions that are at the forefront of the defence of the citizens, with their majesty the king at the head, who will today address the whole nation. In these cold times it is when we realize what really matters, it is when some daily concerns or political and media disputes are relativized. I am the president of a political party that has ruled almost fifteen years of Spanish democracy, which has successfully overcome two serious economic recessions and several public health crises; a party that will rise again to the occasion and will once again show that it only guides the national interest and the common good of all Spaniards. Although we have very difficult weeks ahead, the day will soon come when we open the doors of our homes, the day will soon come when we will once again shake the hands of our friends and hug our parents and grandparents again. We will look back and remember how uncertainty gave way to confidence, how everyone's responsibility allowed us to defeat the coronavirus. And we will look forward and realize that we overcome the crisis as a more united people, more aware of the importance of the bonds that unite us. I'm done, Madam President. We are holding this sitting in the empty Parliament of an injured nation, which is waging an unconventional war. No earthen sacks, but with masks; no barricades, but with quarantines. Now we can only offer effort, sweat and tears, but we'll get back on our feet, we'll get back on track. We are a formidable people and as long as we have acted together we have overcome any difficulties. It is the time of eternal Spain, which is composed of all who have been, who are and who will be. That Spain that allows us to trust in our ability to overcome adversity; that Spain that requires our maximum individual effort to become a universal success; that Spain that we have been given and that we must give. For that Spain we must add the best of ourselves to the best of all of you and unite it to the best of each and every one of our compatriots. Let us make this misery the beginning of the best possible Spain. Let us begin to found the homeland of our children. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Applause]] Thank you so much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u7	Thank you, President. In this serious hour I would like my first words to be a reminder to all the people who died from this virus that is affecting all of Spain - which is already more than five hundred, today - people who have died in many cases alone, deprived of being able to say goodbye even to their loved ones. I would also like to send a message of sympathy to those relatives who have not been able to be with their loved ones in the last few moments and who, even in some cases, have not even been able to go to the sepulchres. Special memory deserve us some of our elders, like the twenty dead yesterday in a residence that they did not get the health care they were promised. I think it is important to remember that all lives are valuable, especially in these days when our elders have been disrespected from so many areas. Those who have preceded us along the way, those who have bequeathed us Spain that we know today deserve the greatest recognition and not the contempt for their life that some have been watching with so much pain. Go from here our tribute to the elderly. Be assured that you are important to our society and that we love you. The rest of the Spaniards call for us all to have a gesture with a family member, a neighbor, an older acquaintance, maintaining all the necessary security measures to protect them, but let us make them feel appreciated and valued. It's not that hard and they deserve it. I would also like to send a message of hope to all those who are not in good health today, to those who have symptoms, to those who are admitted and to those who are affected by other illnesses that these days seem less important or have less media coverage. We also remember you and hope to be able to see you recovered very soon. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the rehumanisation of politics; therefore, it should be time to put our differences behind us. The common front we have would require us all to row together in the same direction. The differences from a few weeks ago today should be left behind. Mr Sánchez, now the important thing is a situation that is mercilessly hitting our homes and our economy. Recovering Spain is the only thing we need to talk about and that's why it's VOX's priority. This is how our president, Santiago Abascal, personally moved him. He has offered his support so that we can fight the coronavirus together without yielding to the blackmail of those who want to harm Spain. The bad news is that you with your words continue to resort to ideology and give up seeking that unity; the bias I have perceived is the lack of self-criticism. The good news is that you have finally adopted so many sensible proposals that we made in previous weeks. It was inevitable. Realism is imposed on ideology by its own weight. We do not want to recall now what was called when we proposed from the beginning to close our borders, to regain the control and unity of the whole of Spain to the detriment of the seventeen divisions, to take advantage of the experience and preparation of our Armed Forces, to centralise health or to turn Spain into a Euro-demanding country to demand the support we deserve from the European Union. The important thing is that you've finally done it and it's better late than never. It is true that we advanced with many proposals and parliamentary questions even though you led us all to think that the crisis was smaller than it really would be. VOX has been working since January 29 to learn the truth about the COVID-19. We asked thirty-eight parliamentary questions and three GNPs before 10 March. What a pity that you did not pay attention, for example, to the question by this parliamentary group on the lack of transposition of protocols for the protection of the World Health Organization for health professionals - it was forty-nine days ago - or to the proposal by our group requesting the closure of borders with China thirty-six days ago, or to the non-legislative proposal requesting the closure of borders with Italy twenty-two days ago, or to the proposal by us asking for control at airports for those nationals or foreigners who were freely circulating in countries with verified cases - that was twenty days ago. But, as I say, the important thing is that they have finally done everything, even now, because the important thing now, indeed, is to get rid of the virus. This has been understood by millions of Spaniards, on whom, as many times, a responsibility that is not theirs has fallen; Spaniards who are following exemplary behavior isolated in their homes: they have left jobs, obligations and businesses that will take a long time to recover. Those Spaniards deserve to be exemplary on the part of their rulers, they deserve to have their rulers leave contemplation and move on to action, and they deserve to have their rulers put more capable, less ideological and more credible people at the forefront of this crisis than we see today: people with the capacity to make proactive decisions. Mrs Calvo and Mr Iglesias cannot continue in her Government: they do not know about health or the economy and have demonstrated their inability to exercise the vice-presidencies of Spain. If something happened to you, Mr President, which we do not want, thinking that Mrs Calvo or Mr Iglesias were at the head of this country would make us very nervous. We need to step up support for our professionals, roll over with the healthcare staff, shield their security and multiply their resources, as we need to protect them because they are the ones on the front line in the fight against the virus. It is not acceptable that there are health personnel without gloves, without masks, without access to diagnostic tests or that there is one in some centers, yes and no in others. All our professionals must be able to carry out the test immediately and, in the very short term, also all Spaniards who have been exposed to the virus directly or indirectly. Not doing so only generates a result: falsifying the contagion statistics, that is, hiding the gravity of the problem; but hiding the gravity of the problem prevents putting the necessary means to solve it correctly. By the way, that also has a secondary consequence of which you may not be aware: the mortality rate of this virus is measured by the number of deaths divided by the number of confirmed cases. If you trap the solitaire by reducing the denominator of that quotient, which is that of the confirmed cases, but you cannot hide the numerator, which is that of those killed by the virus, you get a higher mortality rate than the actual one. - I don't know if they're following me. That leaves us in a very bad place compared to the outside world, as the foreign press has seen these days. What Spain lacked! We therefore support the centralization of health and the mobilization of staff and resources. The Civil Guard, the National Police and the local and autonomous police must also be provided with adequate and adequate personal protection measures immediately. We need to talk to our industry; it is already urgent to urge them to manufacture more respirators and to ensure that the government will buy them all that they can manufacture. All union leaders must be mobilized from essential services to re-enter their posts and work with their colleagues. We must attenuate as much as possible the economic and social damage to this health emergency and that fear of the virus does no more harm than the virus itself. Spain cannot stop, because only by facing fear, paralysis and defeatism can we prevent the fall from being as temporary as possible. That is why, Mr Sánchez, we ask the government to give a 180° turn to its policy to relieve economic agents of the heavy burdens they carry and to begin to visualize the exit to the crisis of the coronavirus. He doesn't know how sorry I am to have to say it, but he has again let the Spaniards down. Yesterday, he decided not to give up the government's planned tax increases. You have to. We ask for an immediate plan to help families and businesses by radically reducing their taxes. A tax contingency plan is needed to reduce tax burdens for all. Mr Sánchez, you must expressly refrain from continuing to take measures such as the widespread rise in taxes that limits our ability to generate wealth and employment. Approves a reduction and postponement of the payment of taxes, in particular VAT, IRPF, inheritance tax and all fees and arbitrations linked to economic activity, allowing the rescue of pension funds without tax penalty. We need a business contingency plan to ensure that Spain is fully protected, but not stopped. It must find ways to ensure a liquidity that is decisive in order to avoid the collapse of economic activity. We call on the Government to take measures to ensure that companies do not have cash problems in dealing with this crisis, but we suspect that the Government does not know the day-to-day nature of the productive fabric, which is mostly made up of self-employed people, small businesses and SMEs, who can drown out the obstacles, bureaucracy and burdens, and more in situations like this. The public sector is absolutely necessary to contain the blow, but it will be the private sector that will allow us to recover as soon as possible, and will do so by re-creating wealth and will do so if we allow the road to be more clear. Self-employed people, SMEs and their workers need more measures to meet their real needs, and that is why we ask that the money not get out of the box of our productive sector by postponing the tax payment we have mentioned and, of course, the State must immediately liquidate all commercial debt with its suppliers and thus help to inject liquidity into the market. The Government must adopt a work contingency plan that places employment as the top priority in this crisis. The recovery of employment cannot become another victim of the virus; therefore, labour measures cannot be a clear bet on the suspension of jobs, but it is precisely necessary to help employers to avoid having to resort to ERTE, and the way to do so is to release them temporarily from other fiscal and social burdens; because it is clear that SMEs that are having a bad time and are forced to choose between different obligations will first meet the inflexible demands of the State, with possible negative consequences for their employees. We must help to ensure that dismissal, including temporary dismissal, is the last resort in a crisis situation. That is why we must focus on maintaining employment even at the expense of postponing the fulfilment of other obligations with the State. And in those cases where ERTE is inevitable, automate and expedite the state's response, so that workers are not left unprotected for forty-five days, without pay and unemployment benefit, but are guaranteed at least one of them from the very beginning. That is why we have proposed to you what the self-employed are asking for: that the payment of their contributions be suspended for the duration of the pandemic, a 100 per cent bonus of the costs of discharge and social contributions for the final recruitment and 50 per cent for the temporary recruitment of new jobs; in any case, the widespread postponement of the payment of taxes and social security contributions. To finance all this Spain needs a contingency plan to contain unnecessary public spending. The crisis is going to require more spending on some items - we're going to have to spend more, that's for sure - but we're going to keep the government the most expensive in history. All non-essential games, those that do not contribute to defeating the virus or its consequences, must be paralysed, of course, as well as all subsidies to political parties, trade unions and business organizations. We also need a contingency plan to defend national assets. We are in favour of measures to encourage Spanish entities in strategic sectors to remain in national hands, and as long as this critical situation lasts we will insist on the prohibition of abuses by those who try to take advantage of this crisis with low positions in the securities market. We thank the CNMV that it has listened to us, because exceptional circumstances require precisely exceptional answers and, at times like this, no one should do business of the ruin of the Spaniards. However, all these plans will not be possible if we do not have the unity of all forces. Without unity there is no confidence, a confidence seriously damaged by the infamous second additional provision of the royal decree that you passed yesterday, but of that, which is quite serious, we will talk later. Señor Sánchez, recover your sanity; focus on protecting the Spaniards, who are giving everything to get ahead of Spain; join us when we thank the recipients of the applause we hear every day in windows and balconies throughout Spain, the professionals of the public and private health sector, who are having courageous, heroic and patriotic behavior. From here I want to make a public recognition and thank them, as we give them to all our workers who strive to serve Spain from the most diverse positions. In conclusion, if I have spoken of our elders before, I would like to end an appeal to our young people. Now that you have a little more time perhaps it would be a good time to listen a little more to the grandparents, to learn from the best generation, to learn from them how they have gained strength to overcome hard moments like the post-war era; to hear first-hand how they have practiced what we now call resilience and what they simply called life itself; to become aware of how they have lived so many years with renunciation, with scarcity, with generosity, without self-centeredness; to reflect with them on the value of the family, of union, of the nation, of tolerance and of respect; to rediscover with our elders how harmony was possible after years of confrontation and how those values forged a great Spain where there were ruins before. In honoring our elders is the promise to our young people. Today, in the Congress of Deputies, we commit ourselves to show that strength and to lead, learning from our elders, the younger generations. We promise you that you will have a future, that we will spare no effort to bring you forward, and in a few years when we look at our children in the eyes, we will proudly explain to you that in Spain there was a generation that when it was hit by this crisis had strength, the same strength that our parents and their parents had; that when the spirits weakened we had the spirit to overcome it; that when our parents fell we had courage and not discouragement. So today, focused on what unites us, we promise them future and hope, because our young people today see their future with uncertainty, but they have a great grip: they are part of a great chain to which they can cling, because they are part of something bigger than what each individual is, and it is not a community, it is much more than that: we were, we are and will be a strong nation, the Spanish nation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Valentina. Mr Echenique Robba has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u9	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, President of the Government, compatriots, it is a common place - and it is true - that when in our family life, in our personal life, we suffer a tragedy, when a disease appears, suddenly our list of priorities is clearly ordered and we rediscover what is secondary and what is really important. That is why I am not going to waste a minute in responding to the attacks of the People's Party and VOX on the government and my political formation. The important thing is what the neighbours of Lavapiés tell us when they celebrate Charo's birthday, threatened by an eviction; the important thing is what so many ordinary people tell us by offering to make the purchase for those who cannot go out to the street; the important thing is what the exciting applause tell us every afternoon from millions of balconies and windows. That's the important thing, and they're also telling us that we're not just going to get out of this, but we're going to get out of this more united, more supportive and stronger. My mother says that her homeland is where her children can have a meal, a good education and a good health care. I've also heard that one is from where he did high school. I believe that all this is true and I believe that we are seeing it strongly in this crisis. What we are being applauded at eight o'clock in the afternoon is that the homeland is not an anthem; that the homeland is not a flag; that the homeland is not, today less than ever, a king. What the balconies and windows are telling us is that the homeland is the people who live and work in our country and also the common public institutions, of all, that these people have managed to build to take care of and protect each other, especially the most vulnerable, especially when they are badly given. In the midst of the alarm and the sozobra this is the lucid and firm conviction that our people conveys, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. That's why I'm proud of my country and that's why I know we're going to get out of this stronger and better. I'm convinced of that. I wanted to start here because I believe that the difficult but irrefutable task that we have to carry out from the government and all the public representatives, is easily summed up after what I have just said: we have to live up to our people. In this respect, Mr President, I would like to convey to you - and I extend it to the entire government - the support of my group in this House for the measures to restrict movements which were decreed last Saturday. While Boris Johnson talks about letting tens of thousands of people die in the UK, in Spain we are going to protect people by fighting the virus with all the strength of the state. We hope that, sooner than later, these measures will be able to slow down the curve, but the truth is that the coronavirus is still contagious in exponential phase. I therefore convey to you the need to continue to strengthen health care budgetaryly and to adequately protect your workers, as they are our first line of defence. I believe that the committee that has announced to analyse the functioning of public health is a good idea, but I would suggest that this committee should also analyse the involvement of private health in the fight against the epidemic and whether the partial privatization of the system has contributed, perhaps, to weakening it. At the same time, I think it is fair to acknowledge that citizenship is, for the most part, behaving with great discipline, with great responsibility. People - I think it is obvious - are doing their part and the public representatives have to do ours, because protecting people is not only protecting them from the coronavirus; in addition to a health crisis it is obvious that we are also facing a very important economic and social crisis. That is why it is essential for the State to protect the fragile economy of so many families, of so many workers, self-employed and SMEs, and especially of those living on the exclusion frontier. The economic impact of the epidemic on the very broad layers of society is going to be very hard and Spain must be an example for the world of how to end the virus by caring for the material conditions of people's lives. That is why I wanted to show you, Mr President, the satisfaction of my parliamentary group with some of the social measures taken by the Government, as well as to transfer to it, in a constructive spirit, additional measures which we believe the Government should value as soon as possible. It is very good news that the Government decided yesterday to speed up the process of the temporary employment regulation dossiers, the so-called ERTE, so that companies can make a parenthesis in their activity, but protecting and retaining employment, as well as the decision to guarantee the unemployment benefit for absolutely all workers affected by ERTE. Fundamental is the extraordinary cessation benefit to protect the self-employed, although more measures will surely have to be taken to protect the self-employed. It is essential to exempt companies from paying the company's share in cases of contract suspension or reduction in working hours and to postpone the payment of taxes for self-employed persons and companies. These measures are courageous measures to protect wage earners, self-employed people and businesses. Allow me to suggest, Mr President, that we also work on the possibility of implementing some form of minimum income that can protect those who have no income or very low income. In terms of social protection, it is very good news that an extraordinary fund has been set up to strengthen social services, to have banned the cutting of basic supplies and to have established a moratorium on mortgage payments to persons who have reduced their income due to the coronavirus. These measures, together with the recently approved mortgage eviction moratorium, draw strong protection for families who own property. I would suggest, Mr President, that we work on doing the same with the families who live on rent and that they will have the same economic problems as others or perhaps worse. We will talk about more elements of the shock plan during the reply, but I do not want to conclude without pointing out the element that I consider to be the most important of the actions of the Spanish Government during the last few days. Beyond the concrete measures, the Government began yesterday to take a correct economic path, in the opinion of our parliamentary group. The important mobilization of funds, credits and guarantees launches a courageous message that gives security to citizens. We are not in normal conditions, we are not living in a situation in which the supreme norm is the narrow accounting criteria dictated by the dogmatism of austerity. As you have said very well, Mr President, in order to protect the health and the economy of our compatriots, the Government must do whatever it needs. We are waging a war against the coronavirus, as Mr Pablo Casado has said, and the economic criteria to be applied must either take care of this reality or be blind and counterproductive. In times of war, Mr. President, war economy. In 2008, after the financial crash, a certain path was taken in our country: the bank was rescued and workers, self-employed and SMEs were dropped. Although I am aware that things remain to be done, it became clear yesterday that this time we have chosen the other way. Today I am not only proud of my people, Mr President; today, for the first time in a long time, I am also proud of my Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u11	Madam President. President Sánchez, I begin by thanking all the workers who come to your job today to make Spain work by showing responsibility and commitment; all the health workers, as well as those in the food, cleaning, transport, energy, public safety and so many others; thank you very much, we are very proud and grateful for your dedication, often in terrible working conditions. I am also addressing the hundreds of thousands of workers who are losing their jobs or seeing them threatened; our commitment is that, as soon as possible, all jobs lost and, while all workers in this country have guaranteed decent income. This global pandemic is the greatest threat to human security that our people have known since the beginning of democracy, but fortunately today there is a progressive government in Spain that is not going to allow anyone to stay behind or the consequences of this crisis to be paid for by the usual ones. We are pleased that the same public health workers who were dismantling it yesterday are now being applauded, precariousing the working conditions of the sector and benefiting from a private health which has proved to be inoperative these days. The cuts have meant that health spending has fallen by half a point in GDP over the past ten years. Public health has deteriorated in order to increase the private health sector, and as an example the Community of Madrid: of the thirty-three public hospitals, five have private management and their treatments are up to six times more expensive for the public arcades, and public health in Madrid has lost more than 5000 professionals in the last ten years. Sanitary cuts and privatization have led to a lack of resources and staff today to respond effectively to this emergency. That is why we support the Government in all the measures it takes to strengthen the health system, which must cease to function with a view to enriching a few, because in democracy health cannot be a business. In the face of those who are trying to get public revenue out of a pandemic, patriotism is putting themselves at the service of our country's government and not being insensitive to the social majority, as we have heard here today. It is important to save the lives of our compatriots and to strengthen the public sector so that this threat never happens again. We are indeed at war with the virus and its economic and social consequences, which can be more tragic than health care, and we therefore welcome the measures taken, as there are EUR 200 billion to meet the needs of the working class, families, small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people, who are going to have an unemployment benefit for the first time in history. They do not allow comparison with the measures taken before or with what some are now taking, by replacing the balanced meals of the school dining rooms with Telepizza. The 2008 crisis began as economic to become social and political, because the cuts at the time weakened us. Take, Mr President, all the necessary measures to protect the social and labour rights of our people during and after this situation, so that everyone receives the support of the State and no one is left behind. We turn this serious security crisis into an opportunity by regaining our economic sovereignty with a robust productive model, so that in Spain we will again manufacture and recover a public industry and energy system, so that we will bring back the professionals and workers who had to leave our country, and take action against stateless companies that make adjustments already planned taking advantage of this situation. Mr President - because we have to go further - we are very pleased that the municipalities can start using their huge accumulated economic surplus, but we are faced with an extraordinary emergency situation that escapes the control of any state, as the Constitution says, and that forces us to use public investment as a weapon of war. We are sure that the measures adopted and, those that will come from time to time, will strengthen us so that the abandonment of the people by the public administrations is not repeated. We want to make ourselves at your disposal to strengthen the networks of popular solidarity in the terms of the decree of the state of alarm, because only the people save the people and because united we will be strong and we will be able to overcome this war, while divided we will succumb. Today, more than ever, to all of Spain: health, a lot of health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Santiago. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Valentina. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u13	Good morning, everyone. One always has doubts about how to start such speeches, but today there really is none. I begin my speech in this plenary, so extraordinary, with the memory of an even more extraordinary work, and I refer to the work of health professionals, transporters, repomenators, cashiers, farmers, distributors, journalists, artists, cleaning staff, teleoperators, researchers, caretakers of our elderly. To all and to all, to each of the workers who at this time and in the coming you are leaving your skin - literally - so that we have a future, thank you, infinite graces. A previous one: that no one has the Republican Left or this spokesman to throw this virus and this crisis at our head, but that does not mean that we are, by far, in accordance with all the measures taken by the Government during this crisis or that we are very hard on some decisions that, by late or insufficient, have aggravated this situation. First they told us that it was impossible, literally impossible, to get cases from outside; when they arrived, they told us that it was impossible for there to be cases here; and, when there were them, they told us that everything could be stopped with terribly weak means. Result: There have been 500 deaths, 500 deaths, the vast majority of elderly. Last week, before the confinement, there were 200 and, today, Spain is the fourth most infected country on the planet. Delay and incompetence in the face of what we have before us does not involve loss of votes, it entails loss of life. And no matter who explains it better; in this no matter who explains it better, only who does it better. Here is what we play: the fragility of citizenship is not being tested, the fragility of the system is being tested. But on the day that people see us either with fear or with hope or with indignation or with everything together, we consider it not the day to make all this a political war more. For once, for once, let us set aside, set aside your partisan miseries and be - let us be - useful. Flags neither feed nor cure viruses; neither fatalism nor frivolity. Everyone today has a medical brother-in-law who knows what to do, everyone, but the truth is that it is so absurd and irresponsible to see Madrid without confining as to see a subway car crowded with people in Barcelona forced to go to work. There will be days to settle accounts. We have the country in the ICU and the doctor just found out. Today we do our job, today we give answers. We start from a base and burn it: the health crisis will pass, but the economic crisis will prevail. I repeat, the health crisis will pass, but the economic crisis will prevail. We are facing the greatest economic precipice since the 2008 crisis-stage and, if we do not expand - I repeat, expand - the economic and social measures announced by the Government, Lehman Brothers and the enormous unemployment, inequality, precariousness and misery that came then will remain in a child's play, and it is our obligation to say it, warn it and treat it. Let no one be mistaken, everything has changed; a struggle from now on will prevail over all without undermining the existing ones: the struggle to help those who are suffering and will suffer the future economic crisis born of the present health crisis. And believe me, the one who thinks that with cornet and tambourine touches or that with covers with the logo of a ministry is solved all this, will simply pass to the trash of history. Less patriotic stone cardboard unit and more real quality public health; less Civil Guard and Army patrolling to give tranquility and more resources for a health staff who today already claims to have more means to be able to exercise their profession decently, which is to save us all. People being looked after in hallways or nurses with a garbage bag - with a garbage bag - as the only protection are complaints that already make us come. I hope, above all, that after this, the right and not so right Spanish and Catalan will think about it very much before re-cutting in health. There is only one recipe: social spending, social spending and social spending. The best applause for health is never to cut back, ever. Thus, from Esquerra Republicana we propose a whole package of shock measures in the field of the fight against the virus and in the field of the fight against the economic and social repercussions that result from it. All of them are either not covered by the Government or are expanding existing measures. The first is to harden isolation and confinement. They arrived late, Mr President; they arrived late at the closure and isolation of the two main outbreaks of the virus, Madrid and Catalonia. They only had to copy those who preceded us, China and Italy, who already did it with Wuhan and Lombardy, or respond to the request of the Generalitat of Catalonia to close Catalonia as it was already done with Igualada. None of this has anything to do with ethnicity or chauvinism. While it is true - and they have been tired of repeating it - that this virus does not understand territory, it is even more true that it does understand statistics. We are talking about the two regions with the highest infection rates. If this is a global problem today, it is because it was not treated territorially. If they were already irresponsible once with territorial non-containment, don't be so again now not hardening individual confinement. It is peremptory; we must isolate house-to-house, family-to-family, harden exits and boost awareness campaigns. I repeat: five hundred deaths; last week, before the confinement, there were two hundred. Two, hospitals don't need military, they need more means and more health personnel. From here we again propose something that we have been proposing for a long time: a change in the total paradigm in the field of crisis management. We propose a 40% reduction in the military budget to fully devote it to the public health system. That no one is frightened, would remain on the same level as the governments of someone so unsuspecting of being a pacifist as José María Aznar. But if this seems very radical to you, we propose a much more immediate alternative: that from now on the resources earmarked for the planned military deployment during this crisis are devoted entirely to means for doctors and nurses. Hospitals are on the verge of collapse, and if we don't cut it, it's only going to get worse. I repeat: hospitals do not need military personnel, no matter how much they like some of you; they need more means and more health personnel. Three, moratorium; extend the announced moratorium to rent for all those affected by the virus during the crisis. 70% - I repeat, 70% - of the evictions in this country are currently of people who are renting. I think the measure alone is explained. Four, a general and direct moratorium on social security contributions, autonomous quotas and postponement of the payment of own taxes such as VAT, as well as specific aid to self-employed persons, as announced by the Generalitat de Catalunya. Five, suspension of the payment of basic services such as electricity, water and gas. Someone as unsuspecting of being a radical scumbag as Macron has already announced. Six, boost a guaranteed income of citizenship for those who run out of income. The left has been waiting too long for a day to discuss this; well, it has already arrived. All these measures have two objectives as simple as clear: the first, to give more liquidity to the self-employed and SMEs to sustain the productive fabric during the compulsory period; and the second, the second, the main, that no worker loses his job during this crisis, that no one stays behind. Too many people in too many crises have been abandoned, let alone this one more. Twelve years ago nothing was taken to rescue the bank in this country for EUR 60 billion. I hope it won't take a minute now to rescue people. I'm done. On the balconies we are being taught a lesson; balconies full of people every afternoon and every night with huge differences, applauding, supporting and recognizing beyond their flags, beyond their ideas. Let us live up to them, let us live up to the best, let us simply live up to the people. And a warning, a warning to those today who are miserably using this crisis as a smokescreen to cover up their shame and corruption: we will investigate up to the last euro of business with Saudi satraps, whether preterites, emeritus or futures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u14	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Errejón Galván.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u15	Thank you, Valentina. Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that whenever we get up here we are aware that we are talking in the forum of national sovereignty, and today we are doing so with special gravity and with particular responsibility because we are going to a country that is mostly locked up, struggling, worried and thinking about the future perhaps with uncertainty. As the other spokespersons have done, I want to start by thinking about the victims and their families, who are sick today and, first of all, all the people who care for us. I would like to say the first words to the entire civic citizen army that is taking care of our country; to the health workers, to the repair workers and to the cashiers, to the teleoperators, to the State Security Forces and Bodies, to the firefighters, to the cleaning and garbage personnel, to the distributors; thank you very much for keeping our country standing. I also want to remember the whole country that is locked up in their homes today. It has long been said that the pandemic, that the virus does not understand differences, does not understand territories, but inequality does. For everyone, confinement is hard, but there are some sectors for which it is particularly hard. I want to remember the'monomarental' families, who juggle to take care of their children, the elderly who are in a situation of loneliness or dependence, the people with mental disorders, for whom confinement is a very painful situation, the people who live on patera floors or live in beds in which they have to rotate, those who are imprisoned or in the CIE, those who cannot comply with quarantine and return home with the fear of knowing whether they will spread to their loved ones or those who are in a hospital and do not know whether they will be able to pay the euro or the two euros to put them on television. All of them I want to tell you to hold on, hold on, we're gonna get out of this and we're gonna get out together. No one doubts - it has been said in a number of speeches and you have also said this, Mr President - that this is an unprecedented situation, a situation that some call war metaphors, and an unprecedented situation requires a strong and also unprecedented response. It is time for the State, which is the collective responsibility, to fulfil its role and mobilize an unprecedented amount of resources. Today, and I say this openly, there is no criterion, no calculation, no rule of spending above the need to defend life and society. The former head economist of the International Monetary Fund, Olivier Blanchard, said that we are de facto in a war and we have to implement measures as if we were in a war to be won, and set as an example that the United States, during World War II, incurred a deficit of up to 26% of the gross domestic product. We believe that the expenditure ceiling and deficit targets today have ceased to make sense. In fact, we believe that article 135 of the Spanish Constitution should be amended, that we should impose a moratorium on the payment of debt interest and that we should temporarily suspend the Budget Stability Act. And all this, for what? Because we need an immense New Deal or Marshall Plan, we need an immense injection of public investment into the Spanish economy to do two things; first, to stop the pandemic, and to stop the pandemic, we support the real decree declaring the state of alarm; we know that it is difficult, but the Government will have us on its side. We believe that greater efforts should be made in health care; everyone who knows a health care professional will have heard that they are overwhelmed by the hours, overwhelmed by the lack of resources and many materials. We have to stop the country permanently, and it's not only more effective, it may even get cheaper. It is better that a long-term and half-gas confinement is to stop the country, stop companies permanently and only to work those that the Government has as essential. And secondly, to deal with the most possible social crisis and economic crisis, so that the confinement does not become afraid, does not become precarious, does not become poverty, and so that they do not end up paying the same as in 2008 and that in 2010. In this sense, we have all the learning of what we did wrong during those years and the learning that those who then told us that we had to cut in the welfare state, today they run to ask the state to take action. We don't make the same mistakes as then. For confinement not to become poverty, for the pause we have given to the economy not to become impoverishment, we must also give a pause to all debts and all payment obligations incurred by families, SMEs and self-employed people. It is essential that we ensure that, just as the big ones can endure in this economic parenthesis, the small ones also endure. It is essential that we assume that reconstruction begins now, not the day after we leave; reconstruction begins by not losing a single job, not letting a single company close. The measures announced, Mr President, are in the right direction - the mortgage moratorium, the guaranteed supplies for the most vulnerable, the protection of Spanish interests in the securities market - and we are going to row in favour, but we must row much more, at least as far as Italy or France are concerned. The progressive government cannot be more timid than Mr Macron's liberal government. And I tell him that he will take us on his side because there is plenty of scientific evidence, data from economists, the experience of the crisis and, above all, the understanding of our country. I am convinced that Spain knows that in this situation 'to great evils, great remedies'. But that means putting in place an immense plan, the one called by analogy as a Marshall Plan, that mobilizes analogous resources. Look, the Marshall Plan mobilized around 5% of your gross domestic product, the New Deal around 6% or 7% of your country's gross domestic product. The measures announced today, the EUR 17 billion, net of the guarantees that is not direct investment and net of the mobilization of the private sector, represent 1.4% of direct investment. We need rowing, but we need to row much stronger. And it is not true that it is the most powerful injection of money into the public sector; there was one more powerful, the one that was made for the bank, which we then helped. Today, which Spain needs, they must be asked to return the aid. In the package we find measures that are advanced, but we find absences that worry us. We found nothing about the rents, which are the most evictions concentrated. We need an immediate moratorium for all those affected by income reduction. That is what the Union of Tenants says, but it is also what the Italian Government has decreed. We need to cancel all contributions and contributions to the self-employed affected by the crisis. It is good to regulate ERTE, but it is not enough to recommend to companies that do not fire. We must ban redundancies, we must guarantee a two-month moratorium, as Italy has done, so that it cannot be fired, and we must guarantee a basic emergency income of six months - the economist Guy Standing defended it recently in the newspaper El País - which guarantees the resistance of our society, which guarantees that families and small businesses do not break down because, if not, we will come out weaker from this crisis, which guarantees immediately that we can maintain the aggregate demand. And I am glad that you have included a measure that we told you that we were very concerned, but that you need funds: there are people, there are women for whom confinement can mean fear and, therefore, it is essential not only to give them support but to guarantee a public infrastructure of housing that they can go to so as not to have to live with the aggressor. It is essential for the State to tell all these sectors that they are not alone, that they are not helpless and that they can count on collective solidarity. And who pays for this? Because if the state takes on permanent obligations but doesn't say where it's going to get revenue, it may later turn into cuts. If the state incurs more expenses and does not tell us where it will get more revenue, this can turn around the corner into more cuts, so it is essential to mobilize resources. I believe that all of Spain understands that this is the time for solidarity. That is why we say that it is time for a civic solidarity tax for the great fortunes, to recover the tax, to go ahead and guarantee the tax to the great technologies, which have not lost during these days of crisis, and to guarantee the Tobin tax for the movements of financial capital. Much is now being said about whether we are at a Keynesian moment, but a Keynesian moment is not that the state intervenes at the wrong and does so to leave things exactly the same; it is that it intervenes at the wrong to change the economic structure and to protect those below; and for that it is necessary, in a drastic way, to dare. We have learned some things in this crisis - and I finish, Madam President - we have already learned and we will learn more than with public services we cannot play, that cuts in public health kill, and that it is a lie about the'save who can' and the 'all against everyone', that that that is a dead end, that from it alone comes out - Santiago Alba Rico said today -, we only save each and every one of us if we save all together as a community; and that means that we only come out with more capacity to predict and plan with a stronger, more responsible and fairer state and with more social bond and more community. It is now up to us to act accordingly. The crisis is going to change us and we are going to get out of this crisis surely changed, but we can choose to get better. A courageous and determined policy is needed that puts first the needs and interests of families, self-employed people, workers and the real economy. The Government must dare because, if it does not dare, the consequences of doing so late and of doing so on time will be much worse for all citizens. I have no doubt that we will get out of this crisis as a people; we also need to get out with a State that is up to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, we are at an exceptional time, in a crisis of extraordinary gravity and, in this situation, the absolute priority must be to stop the spread of contagion and save lives; a priority that puts political confrontation in the background because in this matter it is not time to confront but to cooperate. That is why I have already shown the full willingness of the BNG to work together as hard as possible to tackle this crisis, even if the measures that have been taken or that, unfortunately, have not been taken do not like or seem insufficient to us. It is up to those who have the responsibility to govern to make decisions; there will be time to evaluate them. We do want to make constructive proposals, proposals that we believe are necessary, especially some based on the criteria of experts and previous experiences such as in the cases of Wuhan or Lombardy: isolating the main outbreaks of infection combined with the confinement of the population results. Close Madrid, where about half of the cases are located, continues to be necessary to avoid - as graphically expressed by some media - centrifugal infection to the whole state. In Galicia we know what we are talking about; fourteen of the first fifteen confirmed cases in Vigo were related to Madrid. Yesterday, the president of the Xunta recognized that during the first five days 70 percent of the contagions came from Madrid. Today, to nail Madrid, to shield Galicia, is a cry in our country, and believe me that we do not say it from a distance, neither emotional nor physical. I myself, after participating last week in meetings of the Board of Spokesmen, decided to stay in Madrid for prudence and responsibility with my people. And here I'm going to continue, but I could have left or I could have taken a plane this very afternoon to Santiago de Compostela. It is not logical, this cannot be left to the individual decision. And I would like to point out that in this area there are decisions that cannot be taken or stopped for economic reasons, and even less for political reasons, but that it must be for practical functionality and effectiveness, and armouring Galicia remains necessary. Once our southern border with Portugal has been closed, where there are very few cases, it makes more sense to close the eastern border, where the risk of contagion continues. If it could be done in the case of Balearics, why not in the case of Galicia. Today we know for sure that cutting mobility is also the best way to cut the transmission chain. In addition, we are committed to coordinating the efforts of the autonomous communities of each country; rather than centralizing, cooperating, and no longer for political but practical reasons. It is not improved by subtracting skills from those who have a better knowledge of their own reality. Among other things, because nations like Galicia have particular physical, social and human characteristics that need specific answers, and because we also have full confidence in our professionals, in the professionals of our public health who, despite the cuts suffered these years, are doing commendable work now and always. We also believe that it is important to carry out massive tests, as Korea did, or to stop all, economic activity that is not essential to maintain the functioning of society and the fight against the coronavirus. How can you explain to a small trader who has to close his business while factories with thousands of workers continue to work? Support, collaboration and proposals to curb the epidemic. As regards its social and economic consequences and the measures taken, we sincerely believe that they are clearly insufficient, at least in terms of the protection of the most disadvantaged sectors of workers and self-employed. I would like to point out some of the BNG's proposals; we believe that instead of opting to speed up ERTs, which involve insecurity, loss of wages and loss of extras and holidays, we should ensure that employment and labour rights are maintained, for example by banning, as Italy does, dismissals for economic reasons for two months. We advocate for condoning the payment of mortgages for at least four months for all those affected by the loss of employment or income, and it must be done with the unrecovered bank bailout that we all pay. It's time for it to revert to public benefit. We also propose to support the self-employed economically and to establish moratoriums on the payment of rents for both private individuals and businesses forced to close, as well as economic support to meet the costs of basic services such as water, gas or electricity. In short, more action is needed to ensure that we do not pay for this crisis once again, because the rights of workers cannot be confined. I'm done. Today there are millions of people concerned about their health and that of their loved ones, their jobs and their material subsistence. We are very aware of the difficult moments that are going through especially people with deceased relatives, infected ones and their relatives, so I want to convey with all my heart that we are with them. I would also like to thank publicly for the enormous effort being made by all the healthcare staff and the thousands of people who make everything essential work every day. By the way, situations like this make it possible to extraordinarily value the indispensable role of public health. I conclude by saying that I feel a great pride in belonging to a people like the Galician who is doing his best to respond to this crisis. We were able to collectively overcome very adverse decisions and situations in history, and I have the firm conviction that we will move forward once again with confidence in our own capabilities. I am also convinced that this will be the case throughout the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Valentina. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, good morning. I do not know if there are many more things that can be said in this disenchanted and atypical Chamber that we have today, but I will try. I am not going to get epic or tell you that I have already told you this or that I have proposed this and the other, nor am I going to propose today and here a committee of inquiry to know how the management of this crisis has developed, because everything has certainly evolved and things have changed very quickly. As an example, just to remember, a week ago - just a week ago - several groups in this House intended to hold a normal plenary session, the whole Chamber, and see how we are here, and they were still claiming it for this week if the previous one was not possible. Look at how things are changing. If you review the media of the last few days, day by day there is a different sequence. I therefore understand that the measures that have been taken will have been more or less correct, but I am sure that they have been the ones that the competent authorities considered most appropriate at every moment, and to speak now of this or the other - it should have been so - I think there is plenty. With regard to the declaration of the state of alarm, which is what, above all - the situation in general, but legally this - brings us to this House, you already know that we, in 1981, in discussing and voting on the laws that develop the 116 - state of alarm, exception and site - we expressed ourselves against, because we considered that it was not the proper regulation for the development of that article of the Constitution, but we understand the need on the part of the Government to apply it - we are not going to tell you that it did not have to do that -. We might have liked - it cannot be hidden - that something similar or identical to what was seen in Germany would have been seen in a composite state such as Spanish, which was a meeting of all the presidents of the Länder with the Chancellor, Mrs Merkel, and then announced a whole series of measures. But of course there is one thing that is clear, which I believe has not been denied, because it has not been possible to do so, because in fact the data are there, and that is that there has been coordination all this time since the crisis was declared. There has been a good relationship between the administrations, and the only thing I trust, and so far this is being done, is that the relationship continues that way, because we are all committed to the same thing. They therefore know that there will be coordination and a total willingness to comply with the agreements that must be reached in order to put an end to this pandemic as soon as possible. There has been cooperation from the beginning and it will continue to be without doubt, but of course we also ask - I think it is also in the Government's mind - that the situation should not be unduly prolonged. You have also said - and you have been very right - and I think it is important, that we do not have a clear horizon about when this can end, it is quite true, and I understand it, but we do have to try to keep this exceptional situation going longer than necessary. Of course, how has the landscape changed, right? A week ago, we were discussing issues here that would now seem to us to be wobbly or on which the dimension has certainly changed at the moment; also on the economic level in view of budgets or how to deal with what measures to adopt. That is why some speeches I have heard here today have surprised me a little, because I think we are in another phase. We generally support the economic measures that it has taken; we believe that they are the right path, and it has also shown that it has taken a decisive decision and that it has not been left in half ink, that it would have been the worst, and yet it has made a great bet and has given a great boost with those one hundred billion publics, more then what the private sector contributes - the bank has to prove that it is also up to the circumstances in which we find ourselves -. Those hundred billion, guarantees, public guarantees, plus another hundred thousand, are a good sign. What needs to be ensured at the moment is liquidity, great liquidity, beyond all the social measures that are also implemented in the decrees approved by the Government to pass the situation. Talking about measures now about whether we have to lower taxes does not seem to capture the situation we are in. We will talk about that when the budget comes and when we have overcome this situation. What we have to achieve is that companies do not close down and that there is still a certain functioning of the economy, and that those that have to be paralyzed do not have to shut down permanently. And that's what this economic injection is basically about, thinking that in a few months we're going to be in another situation, and we're going to have to think about a normalized budget and normalized economic measures. Regrettably, the ECB missed the opportunity to move forward. I think it is time for Europe, or it was time for Europe, but Europe has unfortunately not lived up to what was expected. I would honestly have thought that other motu proprio measures would have been taken, but I believe, Mr President, that you must insist on the European level on the situation that affects us all. For example, the MEDE should be implemented, which should be provided, like many other things that may be on the table. Europe cannot look up and pretend that nothing happens. It must therefore take the initiative. So far it has been rather timid gestures, and I think we have to keep insisting. Evidently the economic stake has its risks if it is extended over time. That is why - and I know we do not have a horizon - we have to be very strict about the measures we take so that we can return to normality as soon as possible, because if we do not, we will run the risk of a major fiscal hole, the risk premium will be increased, etc. But it is true that at the moment, in those circumstances, and thinking that it is going to be a transitional period, that is the least, because the cost of not taking these measures would have been brutal in terms of GDP and in terms of employment, economic capacity, in social terms ultimately. We are therefore absolutely in favour of the measures they have implemented. But I, Mr President, disagree with you, it is not that you disagree frontally, but I think that we cannot stay at what time the state has to prove and the state is going to save this situation. I agree with you that what will save the situation is the public. However, it seems to me that crises like these, pandemics like these - and you have said so too - are crossing borders, it is something globalized, and I believe, Mr President, that when this happens we have to seriously consider - I would like you to take the initiative - the creation of an international system for alerting and preventing health crises. There is no such thing as this today, but that all this can be prevented, that international cooperation is given from the very beginning is absolutely essential for us not to get to the point that we have now, because here what is going to solve problems such as the one we face is shared knowledge and greater cooperation at the international level. I want to conclude my speech by trying to convey optimism, because I am also optimistic; I think that if we are all aware of the gravity of the situation and we take seriously the measures that are intended to be implemented we will soon overcome this moment. I want to have a memory for the victims, send condolences to their families, and a thank you to all those who work in exceptional circumstances, taking a risk for all, and a general thanks to society for the discipline it is showing, for understanding the measures proposed and for following the advice of the authorities. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, which now has its reply, Mr Sayas López has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u21	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin my speech, I would like to convey to the President a request made by my colleagues from the Joint Parliamentary Group, both from the Canary Coalition and from the New Canarias and the PRC, who, given the circumstances today, cannot be in this plenary, but who, as they moved him the other day in the video call, support the measures being taken by the Government. I want my first words to be in solidarity with the victims and also with the sick who have been infected by this virus and to wish them a speedy recovery. We are undoubtedly living one of the most difficult moments in our recent history - probably the most difficult of the last decades - and we will overcome it if we remain united, if we are able to understand that the effort we are making these days makes sense. We will overcome it if we row together, bringing the best of ourselves: our loyalty, our commitment, our solidarity and our experience. Yesterday the president said at the press conference after the Council of Ministers that after the battle the time will come to analyze the actions, and I share it, it will be later when he touches to analyze some decisions that may have seemed to us late or that we have not understood in their dimension, but that is not what he touches today. Today it is up to us to tie our shoulders, to show once again the greatness of a country that knows how to unite in adversity. Today, it is up to us to expel from the walls of this House the politician whom we so often shelter and to give the floor to the politics of truth, which we think of the people, which we want to hear and understand and which we are looking for channels for collaboration and agreement. The example and greatness that is moving us through these days the vast majority of Spanish citizens have to be reflected as well, and is being seen in today's debate. In each of the words we speak from this rostrum they must feel that we listen to them, that we understand them, that we represent them, but also that we inspire them and that we hope them. Today there is no government or opposition, there is no opposition or government, there are no ideologies or political parties; today there is a country that wants to move forward as soon as possible and with the slightest pain; today there is Spain and all of us who represent national sovereignty owe it to our country and to all of its citizens. Such situations as we are experiencing sometimes serve to see the best and the worst that we have as a country, and these days we have also seen it. We've seen the worst in some statements by some expired nationalists; we've seen how people's skills were put forward or how, when all of Spain was giving an example of solidarity on all the balconies of all the streets of our country, some were still thinking about what about me or how we split the power plot. On the other hand, we have been able to see again the best that Spain has, and the best is once again its people. They are the health care providers who in every health centre and in every hospital in Spain have been skinned during these days. It is also the cleaning people; those who work in supermarkets; the people who work in transport so that we do not lack a single element of first necessity; it is the pharmacists; it is the state security forces, but also the autonomic and local bodies; it is the army of our country. It is the workers who are having a bad time; it is the self-employed who have had to cease their activity; it is many companies that, although temporarily, have had to close, and above all it is the volunteers, all those people who have run to donate blood, who have put posters on the doors of their house to offer their help to people who had difficulties, or all those who have taken a phone to relieve, in situations like this, moments of loneliness. That is Spain, a country that grows in difficulty, that joins in adversity, and that whenever it has the opportunity gives an example of solidarity. That's why we're gonna be up to it and we're gonna work together. I believe - and they have been presented here too - that there are three priority lines and I say them in order. The first is health; the first is health and life. The second is short-term economic measures, and the third is long-term economic measures. In the area of health, the Government must ensure that sufficient resources are available. That is why I am referring to staff, hospital beds, primary care resources, access to tests and protective elements for health personnel. The ministerial orders that the Ministry of Health has approved this week are in the right direction, but there will probably come a time when they will be insufficient, and that will force them to something they are already doing, strengthen collaboration with the autonomous communities and also between public and private health, which must also be said to be having exemplary behavior in this crisis. Secondly, as far as short-term economic measures are concerned, much of the decree of measures adopted by the Government yesterday is shared by us. It is true that we have also missed some measures. The other day, when we had the video conferencing with the spokespersons of the Joint Group, I asked him for two things: the first was that the liquidity lines were opened to all sectors and not only to the tourist - that I did see in the decree - and the second that I also asked him was the exemption from the social security quotas of the self-employed, and that I did not see. I think we have to be aware that it is a collective that is having a particularly bad time and that we have to support it at a time like this. That is why we have to take that step. Thirdly, it is very important that we think that this is lasting, yes, but that it will not last a month and that we have to put in place long-term economic measures as well. What has happened with IBEX 35 over these weeks - which is the same thing that has happened in other European or global places - indicates that we are going to have to put an economy back into operation and indicates that this will probably bring us more unemployment than we would like, an economic decline and probably a major deficit. This means that it is not time for green outbreaks, that it is time to take the helm, take action and row together. And we will. Be brave, Mr. President, do whatever it takes. His leadership, his ability to seek consensus, his height of vision to avoid partisan prisms, and his ability to understand the needs of this country depends on the present and future of all Spaniards. It is true that many of us think that you do not have the best partners to carry out a situation like this or to generate trust and certainty. And that will force you to seek wider consensus, force you to put aside the short-term prism that populism always imposes and to think in the long term and have a country view. It will also force you to understand the magnitude of the challenge ahead: nothing less than flying Spain in one of the most difficult moments of its history. Never as now was consensus as important, never as today we had an obligation to understand ourselves so much. The magnitude of the effort that we have asked the Spaniards, which is nothing less than giving up part of their freedom, is now moving into an obligation for those of us who represent the whole of our country in this House. We extend our hand to him for this task. You know that our differences are many, and some of them are profound, but it is not the time to think about the government or the people who make up it, it is the time to think about Spain, to row in the face of adversity. It is time for the generosity that the Spaniards have shown in the harshest and most serious moments that we are also transferring to this House. You know that as always as the Spanish Government has experienced a difficult situation, you will be able to count on Navarra, and as always as always as we have had a situation of special difficulty you will be able to count on the Union of the Navarro People. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. Attention to the ravages caused by the COVID-19 coronavirus invites us to celebrate this atypical Plenary of the Congress, while 48 million Spaniards care responsible, solidarity and civically for the indications of the authorities and comply with the house confinement to contain, shorten and overcome the pandemic. From the very first moment Forum announced - and today I repeat it in parliamentary office - that the government has our support from Asturias to adopt the declaration of the state of alarm throughout Spain or the control of borders, because the well-being of the Spaniards is far above any partisan or ideological interest, and now we must show them that we know how to live up to it. Therefore, in order for the President of the Government to have full credibility in his solemn invitation to political unity in the face of this enormous health crisis, it would be opportune for him to review his own words, spoken from this rostrum in 2014, against the then President of the Government for the Ebola crisis, a crisis that left no deaths due to contagion in Spain, and you, Mr Sánchez, had this very morning the restorative gesture that Mariano Rajoy deserves. Ladies and gentlemen, our consideration is active, not just passive support, to urge the government to anticipate the worst scenario and not just to take measures to always tow events. Of course we must all assume our responsibility today for the situation of lack of supply in basic matters to win the war, not against missiles, but against viruses, as Bill Gates warned us in his masterful TED talk exactly five years ago. In developed self-proclaimed countries, we have failed to take steps to stop epidemics, and today we face inexplicable basic lack of coronavirus testing, disinfectants, gloves and masks for citizens, comprehensive protective suits and glasses for health personnel, or breathers for patients admitted to ICUs. We have not done it right or are doing it right, and we can never repeat this very serious mistake that leaves healthcare professionals and citizens unprotected. Our support from Asturias is active in working with those who sit on the Council of Ministers, whom we demand to set a good example, and not to delay, with their division and postponements, the making of economic and labour decisions that avoid more harmed among the thousands of workers who can lose their jobs as a consequence of the health crisis. Even the unions have criticized the delay in the adoption of the most elementary economic resolutions, giving cover to companies and workers, starting with SMEs and self-employed, in order to anticipate the economic, social and labour losses resulting from the management against this contagious and aggressive coronavirus. It is a serious injustice not to agree to suspend the payment of social security contributions to self-employed persons, as France and Italy have already agreed; and a serious mistake, because investment in self-employed persons is the most powerful and effective reactivation measure a Government can take. I would also like to stress that once the national economic plan is in place, Spain and Italy should promote in the European Union, whether Germany or other northern partners like it or not, the solidarity economic Europlan of the 21st century to curb the great recession that is coming, in the style of the Marshall Plan with which the United States helped the countries devastated by the Second World War in the 20th century. Otherwise, citizens will rightly wonder who and what the European Union is for. Ladies and gentlemen, with the best wishes for the sick, with the excited memory of the deceased and their families, with admiration for the irreplaceable and extremely risky task of the health care workers, and also with gratitude to those who are in the grip of supply, food, transport, logistics, cleaning, communication, public order, civil protection and, ultimately, in charge of the essential services for Spain to continue to function, I encourage all citizens to follow the official instructions and to contribute by giving, from the houses of the cities, villages and villages of Asturias and of all Spain, the best example in this long and harsh emergency against the coronavirus that we have ahead and that we are going to overcome. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u24	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Valentina. Finally, Mr Gimeno has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u25	Thank you, Madam President. President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express our solidarity and empathy with all the families that have lost loved ones during these days of crisis. I also wish to express our solidarity and support to the professionals who, in health and beyond health, are developing their work these days by exposing themselves to all that others are protecting themselves from. I also congratulate the rest of our fellow citizens on the follow-up they are taking on the measures of confinement in their homes, which are very high compared to what we assumed. The citizens hoped that the institutions we have established - the national ones, the European ones and, why not, the world ones - would defend us from situations like this, defend us or at least try to avoid them, but it has not been or is not being so. Indeed, part of the role of the institutions would be this prevention work. My colleague mentioned this earlier, but already in April 2015, after the Ebola crisis, Bill Gates, one of the most respected and influential personalities on the planet, warned that humanity was not prepared for a pandemic or a viral crisis. Let me take his words; he commented: When I was a child, the disaster that we were most concerned about was a nuclear war; today, if anything kills more than 10 million people in the coming decades, it is most likely to be a virus and not a war. He suggested that the creation of a global health system was necessary to prevent and combat pandemics. For that, for that, for that work we want the institutions, for that prevention work, but also the local ones, ours. I was thinking this morning and imagined this situation that we are experiencing if we did not have a government constituted just two months ago. This situation today in Spain without a fully functioning Government, with a functioning Government, and even immersed in an electoral period, would be absolutely catastrophic. Hence the responsibilities of decisions that are sometimes made. In this situation, which is obviously very serious, we must all be united and, like the vast majority of citizens, we know that Spain - the country, society, the institutions of the State, each and every one of us - is at a very difficult time, a situation that is going to put the health system, the social system and the economic system to the test. It will test this by the difficulty of knowing the dimension of this pandemic, which we do not yet know, by its global nature and by the complexity of resource management to address it by minimizing its social and economic effects. That is why we believe that the Government must confront this situation with two principles, namely intelligence and equity: intelligence to know how to continue supporting the scientific community, which I suppose is behind all these decisions, and equity to share the enormous burdens that will have to be faced by this crisis among all social and economic actors. We cannot allow once again the crisis that may become to fall on the backs of a few, a few personally and a few territorially. Likewise, we ask citizens to act intelligently in our day-to-day care for personal health and to protect public health. It is necessary to know how to bring together with harmony through confinement, to facilitate a much more demanding reconciliation and to be generous and supportive in order to face it with maximum strength. We support the Government's decision to adopt the Royal Decree of 14 March and all the measures it has taken to address the social and economic crisis or at least minimize its effects. But not only that, we believe that this crisis is giving us the opportunity to reflect on our development model. This crisis, its impact and expansion, has shown that the model of country that we follow, with the concentration in large cities and in specific villages, clearly facilitates the contagion, the expansion of the pandemic. You have to live in a more vertebrate country. It is a warning that is making us not only the reality, but also the WHO and the UN. We must live in a more vertebrate country, with territorial sustainability, a balance that allows the transmission, in cases like this one of the disease by direct contact, to be much slower and much less intense. The country's effort now called for to overcome the crisis must be an effort that cannot ignore other crises that we had in the territory, including that of emptied Spain. The telework promised to us as a solution to many of the problems is impossible in most of the territories of emptied Spain. We've got to speed it up. A consequence of this crisis should be that telework must be offered to everyone. We have to implant the 5G where the fiber does not arrive so that the telework is really operational for all the territories, because it is not that nobody is staying behind, it is that there are already people who are staying behind. There are people who do not even have the same ability to cope with this crisis; they do not have it because they do not have the capacity of teleworking and because the capacity of medical or health care in these territories is tiny. In our province, for example, I think I remember that we have six ICU beds in one hospital - with this I think I'm saying everything - in a territory of 15,000 square kilometers. We want to acknowledge in the work of the Government and the harshness of the situation it faces, and that is why I stress that it will have our support, both in the measures it has taken and in which it will have to take. The impact on the larger population, for example, which we are seeing is more immediate, is having a massive impact on our territories because, as you know, the population of which we have called empty Spain territories is also characterized by its ageing. We are candidates to receive the virus more intensely. However, we believe that there are measures to be taken, such as support for small businesses and SMEs, which maintain the economic infrastructure of those territories, much more so than support for large international operators, which, moreover, mostly do not pay taxes in the country. We must support small-scale trade and self-government in the territory, as well as farmers, because they are the livelihood of the whole territory. We do not understand, for example, when the exemption from quotas is announced, how we do not also talk about the non-payment of the quotas for the services that these self-employed receive. When a self-employed person stops, the receipts, the light, the water, the supplies do not stop coming to him. These receipts, although not consumed, know that they have a fixed part, a power rate in some cases or a fixed part. That fixed part should be forgiven or postponed for as long as necessary. If there is no income, there are no payments either. In short, it is a challenge for the entire Spanish society that we face. We, as far as we are concerned, are ready to face it and to contribute everything we can, to support our people, to encourage all citizens to follow the scientific slogans and to enter a new state of solidarity, of principles more substantial than the mere emphasis on ideological debate. We believe that from this stage a situation of fraternity should emerge among all the people of this country, fraternity that I want to remember, in conclusion, with some verses of a poet known in this house and that left a mark on it and on society as a whole, José Antonio Labordeta. José Antonio Labordeta in difficult situations said: Let's / to throw new roots / by fields and paths, / to be able to walk, / times / that bring into its entrail / that great utopia / that is fraternity. I end with these words. I am very encouraging everyone, and I am convinced that we will come out of this. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u27	Thank you, President. President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that one of the worst faces of this pandemic is that it forces us to distance ourselves from each other. Believe me if I tell you that I am very happy to see you all today, even with the sadness of seeing this House so empty. In the vast majority of cases in a few weeks we will meet again; we will meet again with our friends, with our relatives, with our neighbours, and we will embrace and greet each other again. However, that is not going to be the case for thousands of families. Allow me to say my first words in this intervention to send all my affection to the families of the victims of the coronavirus. I send our solidarity and affection also to those who are now afraid for their loved ones and to those who are in hospitals suffering from the disease. Today we are millions of Spaniards who want to give them our full encouragement. I hope they recover soon. They are in the best hands and with the best professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, above all the damage that this crisis is doing, it is also showing the best face of a country that knows how to unite in the face of problems, that of a solidarity and responsible citizenship; that of neighbours who care about its neighbours; that of young people who help make the purchase to the elderly; that of taxi drivers who offer themselves to move patients; that of the staff of supermarkets and food stores; that of the State Security Forces and the UME; that of the pharmacies or the municipal teams that keep our streets clean and public transport running; that of the workers of ports, airports and trains; that of the health personnel, thousands of professionals who expose themselves to help us and who hardly rest just to get back to work. To all of them I express the recognition of a country that is very, very, very grateful. We'll never forget what they're doing for all of us. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, all that Spain, Spain that goes out to the balconies and windows at eight o'clock in the afternoon, that of grateful applause, that of health and public services, all that Spain today sends us a single message. We will not separate or divide from this crisis. We won't get out of this crisis looking at each other for ourselves. We will not get out of this crisis if we act only as parties, we will get out of this crisis as a community, we will get out as a society. We will come out of this crisis together. We will go out not as isolated individuals, but as citizens more aware of everything we share. Some say this moment makes us depend on others. I think it rather reminds us that we have always depended on others, that we have never ceased to be united with others, that we have never ceased to be a society. Today we are obliged to remember it and I hope no one will ever forget it again. We all depend on everyone else and being aware of it is the first step, the essential step, to overcome the crisis we are facing. Ladies and gentlemen, there are times that define an era and this is one of those times. There are moments that mark whole lives, ours and those of those we serve. I think this is the time to look us in the eye beyond our differences, which there are and many, and to speak with your heart in your hand. I know that politically it is a lot that separates us, but I also know that for each of us there is nothing more difficult than seeing the pain of our country every day on the television, on the numbers of sick and victims, on the names of comrades, friends and family members affected. We certainly have differences, but I know that we all shrink our souls every morning when we see empty streets that should be full of life, full of all those people who are our people. I know very well that we are all doing everything we can, that we all make decisions where we belong and where we belong, that there are colleagues in the Government of Spain, in the autonomous communities and in the municipalities that have been resting for days and weeks and leaving their skins to help the citizens and to get us out of this nightmare as soon as possible. The virus does not recognize borders between administrations, between autonomous communities or between municipalities, and that is why the response we must give should be coherent and coordinated. All our efforts must be directed towards one and the same end: defeating the virus. This aim, to achieve maximum effectiveness, coherence and unity of action against the virus, has been recommended by the statement of the state of alarm and the direction of action by the Government of Spain. We believe, and it has been widely shared by different parties and autonomous communities, that it is a timely and necessary measure that does not weaken anyone, but, on the contrary, strengthens our action against this threat. The Government's actions, as the President pointed out in his speech last Saturday and has reiterated today, are aimed at four fronts: measures for vulnerable families, measures to support workers, measures to support businesses and self-employed, and measures to support scientific and medical research. The Government has put in place the greatest economic effort in our history to bring this crisis to an end, with EUR 200 billion aimed at combating the epidemic and helping families, workers and businesses on all fronts. Firstly, the fight against the spread of the virus. I believe that at this point no one doubts the need for restriction of movement. It is an effort that we have to make to try to flatten the already famous curve, avoid saturation problems in our health system and stop the spread of the virus. We are also fighting against the virus by supporting research to find the coronavirus vaccine, as detailed by the President of the Government in his interventions these days. Yesterday the president announced 30 million euros for the investigation against COVID-19. I would like to stress the special relevance of experts and specialists in this area, this is the most technical aspect of the crisis and the leadership of the Government must always be advised and informed - as it is - by the scientific criteria of experts on how best to combat the pandemic. The government is acting on the social and labour front, which the president called yesterday the economic and social shield. I am not going to detail all the measures taken because you know them and the President has already referred to them in his intervention, measures to help families, such as the EUR 600 million for benefits from autonomous communities and municipalities, with particular attention to older and dependent people, the moratorium on mortgage payments or the guarantee of the provision of essential services. Measures for workers, employment and self-employed persons, such as the easing of ERTs or facilitating access to unemployment benefit or cessation of activity. Measures to ensure business continuity by providing the business fabric with all the liquidity it needs with the creation of a collateral line worth up to EUR 100 billion. In our country we have acted and are acting against the virus with the greatest force, more than in any other country in our environment, but it is not about seeing who comes before or who is harder in the response, it is about being effective in that response, being effective within the circumstances of each country, of the population of each country and of the foci that are given, which also make a difference. And for all that - they will allow me to insist again - government leadership, no doubt, and informed leadership, guided and advised by scientific knowledge, by experts, as it is happening. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that we still have hard days ahead, that is true, but they will pass. There are still days of probably desolating figures, days of restlessness and uncertainty, but we know that they will pass, that we can have full certainty, this crisis is going to happen, but our struggle is already another, because now it must be another. In Spain there are 158 people who have died and 1081 who have been cured, according to the data just provided by the Government. Every day we win the virus are lives we save, every minute we win this epidemic is pain we're going to avoid, and that's what this is all about, that's the meaning of all this sacrifice and all this effort, that's the battle we have to give. Therefore, I ask all our fellow citizens, when they feel doubt or tiredness, to remember that the more we strive, the sooner we overcome it; the more we persevere, the sooner we win, and if we strive, if we persevere and do what we must as politicians and citizens, the pain and suffering we will avoid will be great. There are many people who are making huge sacrifices and efforts, but in this struggle we all depend on everyone else and we must fulfil our responsibility. The Government of Spain has its responsibility, that of leading the whole country to defeat this virus, and is fulfilling it. Thank you very much, President of the Government, for your work and your effort. I ask you to convey my group's gratitude to the entire Government. Parliamentary groups and political leaders also have our own responsibility. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for the support you are showing today, which is usually unusual in this House; I think that is what citizenship is waiting for from all of us. Each of us, each Spanish and each Spanish, have a responsibility. We have just learned that the mildest cases, those with little or no symptoms, are the ones that have been most able to contribute to the spread of the epidemic. We all, absolutely all, have a responsibility, we have it with ourselves and we have it with our neighbours and with our families. Many thanks to all citizens for the effort they are making. United we're going to defeat the virus and united we're going to get out of this crisis. Mr President, whatever is necessary, wherever it is necessary and when it is necessary. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u29	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Valentina. And, by extension, I would like to thank all the workers and all the workers of the Congress of Deputies for their presence here today in order to be able to hold this plenary session. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the support fund for most of your speeches. As has already been said, we will have time in the future to discuss, question and listen to the cross-reviewed views of the different political views that have logically and legitimately been presented. Today it is up to us to remain united in the face of a common threat - in this case it is an enemy, not an adversary - which attacks us. In that regard, I am very grateful for the unanimous support of the House as a whole. It is a threat that also attacks us indiscriminately, as I said in my first intervention and it has also been reflected in all the interventions. There is no greater symbolic example of the lack of ideology of COVID-19 than to see how our comrades and comrades of all the political parties present here have been infected. That is why I am not going to reject any of the issues that have raised with me, but I am telling you that I am not going to confront any of you today, simply because I do not think it is the time to do so. My task today, as different groups have indicated, is to unite, because it will be united as we will overcome the virus. In that regard, Mr Casado, I am grateful for the support of the People's Parliamentary Group. The virus and its health, social and economic consequences have been, are and will be my greatest concern, that of my Government, so I have transferred it to you and to all the parliamentary groups to which I have had the opportunity to address myself through videoconferencing or telephone conversations over these very intense days. Therefore, until people can leave their homes calmly, the infected people have been discharged and our economy has regained normalcy, obviously the only concern the Government has is to recover normality and everyday life, which unfortunately have been broken as a result of the outbreak of this pandemic. Beyond the initiatives that you have put in place, Mr Casado, I appeal to you to continue to share with the Government - which is also your Government because it is the Government of all Spaniards - proposals, initiatives and projects; we will study them, value them and, no doubt, if we consider that they are right for the political, economic and social moment that we are experiencing, we will have no problem - and not only proposals from your parliamentary group, but from the rest of the parliamentary groups, and I have said this in private talks - to incorporate them. Obviously, if I make an appeal as President of the Government to that political unity, I also have to assume it as a first person, and therefore I am empathizing and listening - in addition to being able to address you and tell you what measures we are taking - to what proposals you and all the parliamentary groups, at this critical moment, are leading the Government to better respond to this crisis. We have to be united to strengthen our society, not to divide it. That is the common denominator of all the interventions we have had this morning; we have to be united to strengthen our welfare state - it seems to me that that is one of the great lessons we have to draw from this crisis - not to dismantle it, and we have to be united to create public spaces and not to close them, left and right, conservatives and progressives. It has already been done in the past, ladies and gentlemen; after the Second World War, the Social Democrats, the Christian Democrats, who disagreed in so many things, agreed on the fundamentals: we live in a society and we have to protect universal rights recognized for all, and fortunately after forty years they are recognized in our Constitution, for those who have much and for those who have nothing. So, what do we need? We need a quality public health that does not put a price on life, that saves us all; a protection that reaches all; a public education that equals personal opportunities; a pension and dependency system that assures us a dignified old age. And within a few weeks, ladies and gentlemen, the lives of millions of people - and this has been said here by the group of interveners - throughout the planet has experienced an unimaginable shock until a few days ago. The virus has changed not only our customs, our routines, but also our way of understanding how we want to organize ourselves as a society has been questioned. And in the shock of this pandemic, which is causing enormous social and economic problems on a global scale and with very profound consequences, there is evidence that is imposed, ladies and gentlemen, above all of them and that I would like to underline today: that is the time of the public; it is the time of the public, of the welfare state and of its four pillars. [[Applauds]] We did it, we have to do it, it's time to do it. Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the first thing I would like to wish you is a speedy recovery from your chairman, Mr Abascal, with whom I have also had the opportunity to speak directly during these days and whom I thank for your proposals in this emergency; to him and all the representatives of your parliamentary group who are infected I wish you a prompt recovery. In addition, I thank you for supporting the alarm decree and the royal decrees laws that we can bring to this House to respond to the social and economic crisis resulting from the harsh measures that we have to take in the area of the state of alarm. I urge you to continue to maintain that channel of communication that we have opened and I assure you that we will continue to listen to your proposals and to those that we see interesting, viable and effective. If I would like you to reflect on some of the issues that perhaps leave us this crisis in which we are now immersed, for example, to think about the importance of the word of our scientists, of experts, who tell us about a global pandemic that does not understand borders so that they understand that the virus does not discriminate by the political color or the color of the skin, to thank the work of the doctor who attends to them, to have the accent that it has and has the skin color that it has. And to those who criticize NGOs and even block them and disqualify them by saying that they are chiringuitos, I have to tell you that today many - as you can see from your ladies and gentlemen - are doing a lot of work to help precisely the most vulnerable. Spain is a great country that becomes stronger the harder it resists and the harder the challenge is. There is also a question, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, which I would like to transfer to you. Your Honor, instead of looking for guilt and reproach you can work with us to contribute, to find out what our scientific knowledge has failed, what we didn't know about the virus or its behavior and why we didn't know it, including that maybe there was no way to know it until it didn't happen. That's what has a crisis. You and your group can work with us to reinforce the only dam we have in front of this emergency and any other health emergency, which is an efficient, well-equipped and well-funded public health system, Mr. VOX spokesman. Today you are saying things that would have been very useful three weeks ago, and you say them with a knowledge and a precision that three weeks ago would have come to us very well - or even a week or two ago would have come to us very well, Your Honor - and you are not the only one. What happens to you is a very humanity's fault - I said it before, in my first intervention - which is called hindsight bias. You a past bull believe that a few weeks ago you knew what you now know. You think two weeks ago you knew that today we would have more than 10,000 infected people registered. You think two weeks ago you knew that we would have to take measures as hard as the ones we have taken. You think you knew all that, Your Honor, but you didn't, because if you had known it with the precision that we all know now, I am convinced that you would have said it and we would have known the whole country, not just the country but humanity. [[Applauds]] You would have presented a proposed law articulated in the Congress of Deputies with precise, detailed measures, but two weeks ago you did not present anything similar, Your Honor, because you did not know many things that no one knew. You didn't know them, but neither did the others. We did not know it by the rulers of all mankind nor did the experts who set us on course, who are infinitely more prepared than you and me to know it, have full certainty. Now it is easy to predict the past, but the challenge remains to predict the future, ladies and gentlemen, to anticipate, and that is a mission as difficult as necessary. In this we are turned, Your Honor, in the future, and what I hope is that you are not turned only in the past. We need to learn, ladies and gentlemen, from what has not worked and also from what works, and unfortunately we have to act today without knowing the things that we will know within a month and that will then seem to us to be common sense. The pride is incompatible with knowledge and we need much humility, ladies and gentlemen, because we have many incognites to solve every day. As President of the Government that humility, ladies and gentlemen - I tell you all - will always be my guide of action, and you, like the rest of the speakers, will find in me a loyal person who will offer you the maximum cooperation, because Spain is built from the Government and also from the opposition. I would like to take this opportunity, after listening to the speakers from the People's Parliamentary Group and the VOX Parliamentary Group, to give some thought to the economic consequences of this emergency and to what our response as a country should be. By the way, Mr. Casado, you were referring to zero-percent contributions. We have not only done that, but also the self-employed who have a fall in income of up to 75% will not have to contribute and will also have to be entitled to a benefit, and even those who have dependent workers will be able to benefit from ERTE. I am simply saying this by making a point to the proposal that you have made, and that is that we have gone beyond what you have originally proposed from this rostrum. I spoke to you yesterday - and I have done so today - about the need to push forward for next year's social and economic reconstruction budgets, because it is clear that we are facing a timely, short-term situation, but we hope that the Spanish economy will bounce back, as well as that the European economy will bounce back, in uve and not in it, and we will therefore need those social and economic reconstruction budgets. I would like to know whether you, in addition to supporting the Royal Decree on the state of alarm and the royal decrees-laws that we are going to set in motion to try to dampen the blow of this dry braking, are willing to speak at least so that we can negotiate social and economic reconstruction budgets that - already advanced - we aspire to have as much consensus as possible in this House. I would like to make some historical notes, ladies and gentlemen, which I think could reflect on the whole of the House so that we understand why we should give an intelligent response, as one of the speakers has said before, to these economic characteristics as a next step when we win together with the virus. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the picture, this was the answer 41 years ago. In 1979 inflation in our country exceeded 26%, an absolutely unimaginable figure today, and the political crisis was running in parallel with the economic crisis begun in 1973, you will remember - the most veterans - with the rise in oil prices. In addition, it was a record year in labor conflictivity. However, with the signing of the Moncloa Pacts, Spain put an end to the spiral of inflation, pushed its entry into the European Union and modernised its economy in record time to become one of the strongest economies on our continent. The union of all, ladies and gentlemen, made it possible. In 1999, if we change our country, a prestigious international Anglo-Saxon magazine, The Economist, described Germany as the sick man in Europe. Economic growth was lower than in the rest of the eurozone, unemployment remained persistently high and German exports had declined when their large traditional markets, Asia and Russia, had collapsed. The costs of reunification were enormous for the country and for its business confidence that was then down. Of all the economies that had gone through the crisis of the early 1990s, German was perceived as a potential ballast for the future eurozone. In less than a decade, ladies and gentlemen, Germany became Europe's real economic locomotive. With sacrifice, with union, with intelligence, Germany challenged the darkest predictions of prestigious media and various analysts and its economy led, as it leads, economic growth after a deep depression in a very short time. In Germany, in fact, after the end of World War II, it was said textually: if the war has been hard, peace will be hell. At a record time, Germany overlapped and set up one of the world's most powerful economies and welfare states. Where do I want to go, ladies and gentlemen? What's the conclusion? It's clear to me. On some occasions, the recession is the cause of macroeconomic imbalances accumulated for years, such as in the 1929 crisis or in the 2008 international financial crisis. On other occasions, recessions are the cause of an event that occurred - global, by the way - as is the case with a war or the COVID19. In this second case, ladies and gentlemen, the recession is often deep, but the recovery can be rapid if we make it all together, if we make it among all. The economic cycles, ladies and gentlemen, do not die of old, but are exhausted by the accumulation of imbalances. Before this emergency, our economy grew in a balanced way, it is true that slowed down as a result of the international economic deterioration, so it is reasonable to think that it will have some resilience to an event of this kind that unfortunately we are suffering. It is not the same thing that COVID-19 infects a weak and vulnerable organism as a healthy and robust one, and it can be thought that the same can happen to economies. It is not the same a shock of this kind in a recession economy that in an economy that grew in a balanced way and whose expansive cycle was not exhausted, as was the case in Spain. We therefore have the team, the basis and the willingness to do so among all, ladies and gentlemen. To the spokespersons of the Confederal Group of the United Nations We can thank you for the coordination and for the unity of action shown by your group because, moreover, that is what our country needs. Unity is what will stop this virus, you said Mr Echenique, also the representative of the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can, and I think we have to keep rowing together, we have that same commitment. Before all this happened, there was a common direction to protect the citizen, the citizen, from one of the fundamental rights such as that of housing. We are aware that it is a sensitive point for citizens, as are health and education. We also have to deal with this because we know that any emergency affects the most vulnerable, who feel that they always pay the same. This country will not repeat past mistakes, ladies and gentlemen, it will not leave its citizens more disadvantaged, those in dependency, the weakest - it is a priority for the government because it is the only thing that will make us strong when all this happens, will happen and we hope it will soon be - deprived of their fundamental rights. There are many families who will not be able to pay rent, there are children who are not now receiving adequate and sufficient food because their families could not afford it and depended on schools, there are thousands of homeless people who cannot go to social eateries and who are more exposed than ever to adversity. This is our harsh reality now, an apparently stopped reality that is, however, quite the opposite. It is the frantic struggle of a people against a single enemy, so thank you, Your Honor, for defending a common philosophy of work, for the constructive debate to make the best measures available to Spain; measures debated in unity that are up to the exceptional situation that is going through our country and that serve to recover and rebuild from the foundations of our public system. I will not tire of saying this, ladies and gentlemen, because it is very important, that it is public time, that it is time to claim and strengthen, when this pandemic passes, the public and also our rule of law. Now more than ever our country needs us, let us remain united, ladies and gentlemen, let us continue to work in unity to stop the virus and also to move forward. Mr Rufián, as I always thank and listen to the arguments of your parliamentary group and your lordship. I would like to thank you personally for the contact we have maintained over the past few days and for putting people's reality far ahead of the political debate, as you have done from this rostrum, because that is precisely what we should have, because we are all working, without distinction, to save lives. This is so, we want to save lives, no more or less, than to guarantee the well-being of our compatriots. You know, moreover, that this Government is a defender of decentralization and of absolute respect for territorial competences. I have been criticized here for not advancing and anticipating the state of alarm. Yesterday at the appearance, I said precisely that, that is not true, that the State has always been present because the State is not only the Government of Spain, they are the autonomous communities, they are the provincial deputies and they are also the municipalities. The Minister of Health has been in constant contact and coordinating precisely from the Department of Health with each and every one of the health councils of the different autonomous communities. If we make this decision, it is because we have seen that this is a different dynamic, much more intense, that the crisis is not static and that we have to adapt the instruments of response by the State to the expansion of the pandemic. The state of alarm, Mr Rufián, you have the assurance that it does not pose as a demerit or as a reproach for the extraordinary and outstanding coordination that we have had from the Ministry of Health with each and every one of the autonomous communities, and in particular with their leaders at the head of health. It doesn't matter what political colour they have had, because we talked to them daily, we had videoconferences and we met, we've always been working shoulder to shoulder, but unfortunately, we've had to make a decision of this magnitude for the first time in the history of our democracy as a result of the effects of the expansion of the pandemic. You therefore know perfectly well that we are defenders of decentralization, and I have also said this in private conversations with all of you. I am a strong defender of the autonomous state, I believe that in addition the transfer and responsibility in the management in the autonomous communities of health or education has been positive - something some spokesman has already commented - for the social and territorial cohesion of our country. Consequently, all we have done has been to strengthen that cooperation - hopefully in the shortest possible time - with a constitutional instrument, but always at the hands of the autonomous communities, and believe me that nothing is done for distrust or reproach for the work that the autonomous governments have done. No one has reason to confuse the attempt to make the most effective management of this emergency with any other kind of intentions that, let me tell you, are neither in the Government's mind nor correspond as little as possible to the situation we live in. So, I insist once again, the virus does not understand borders, it does not understand political colors. That's the most exulting evidence, if we could use this expression. The vaccine is us, all of us, where we are. I want to make two considerations simply in relation to commercial service trains, Your Honor, so that you can see the extent of the effects that the state of alarm is having on the decisions we have taken. The circulation of commercial service trains: not more than 8 passengers; of the corridor of the northwest of Madrid-Zaragoza-Barcelona, nine trains: 86 passengers. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing not a fall but an absolute brake on citizens' use of public transport, and ultimately their right to mobility. I would simply like to comment on an issue that I think it is important to stress - I am not saying that I blame myself - concerning the army. I'm going to tell you an anecdote told me by the Minister of Defense, which is quite illustrative of how we can tie all our shoulders. Two weeks ago, precisely, the Earth Army undertook with the mayor of Montblanc - former mayor of Esquerra Republicana - to install a bridge so that a factory could exit its products so that it could retain the jobs but not only for that locality but also for the whole of that region. I believe that this represents something, serves to claim that all public servants, whether police, Mossos d'Esquadra or the army, are what they have to be, which is to help in these traumatic circumstances the whole of Spanish society. [[Applauds]] By the way, I take the opportunity to say that precisely the army will provide instruments and mechanisms to respond to the protection of those always forgotten by Spanish society, who are homeless people. The army will take care of them. Therefore, the solution is not to come by the closure of territories, but by the strict application of protocols of behavior for all citizens alike, live where they live. If mobility in the territory is restricted it is restricted throughout the territory, and this is not a competition to see who takes the most extreme measures, it is about being as effective as possible, ladies and gentlemen, all in unity, working together, as we are doing, and always guided by what science tells us. I said this in my first speech, the Government of Spain has always acted on the basis of the three parameters set by the World Health Organization: firstly, science; secondly, to address the socio-economic consequences of the response we have to give to public health; and thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, with the coordination of all and with respect for human rights. That difficult balance between setting the state of alarm and ensuring public health, and respecting the fundamental rights and freedoms that we now have in our democracy and which are recognized in our Constitution, is a healthy, prudent and balanced exercise that will enable us to respond with the utmost effectiveness to this challenge. I reclaim Spanish democracy, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that at this point in time, even with this empty Parliament, we must demand Spanish democracy because it provides us with effective instruments that not only guarantee proportionality in the response to an unprecedented pandemic in the world and also in our democracy, but also give us respite, relief, calm and confidence that any decision we make on the part of the rulers always has in mind the privilege of prioritizing the fundamental rights of each and every citizen. So let's keep working together. With regard to Mr Errejón, I would like to thank the tone and support of More Country-Equo. I thank him for his understanding, as well as for the proposals he has brought to us. He knows that we agree on many aspects, he knows that we have one of the best health systems in the world, we have 330,000 medical and nursing professionals, who provide their services in 466 hospitals and 13,000 primary care centers. They are numerous professionals, we have a ratio of doctors per inhabitant higher than the European average - this seems to me very important also to underline it today - and above all they are well trained, they are competent and they are capable; they support one of the most prestigious and efficient health systems in the world according to all the specialized indicators - it is not an opinion, it is a fact - they are the safest shield we have against common diseases, and also in case of a health emergency such as that which unfortunately our country is suffering. There is no greater justification for us now than ever to protect and strengthen our public health, our public services, than at present. This government - no doubt, Your Honor - is very conscious, and to those who stood by the tides, as we all were, of course, I tell you that we are going to be with our health professionals and also with the rest of the pillars of the welfare state. The government has been taking proportional measures - I want to transfer it to it - in line with the recommendations of scientists and technicians, and we have been absolutely aligned with maximum transparency in information to all groups, to all advisors and to all the media. We have properly informed the leaders of the political parties, whether they had one hundred and twenty seats or had one seat; we have been properly informing all the political parties. Of course, we can understand that right now any measure is insufficient, but only a week ago it could have been exaggerated. Reducing freedoms is something that a government in democracy can do only when absolutely necessary, and this seems to me to be very important to underline in the General Courts, in this House of Parliament. We have faced many things for the first time, ladies and gentlemen; in recent years we have faced many things for the first time, and this is also the first time that the social and democratic rule of law has faced a pandemic of these characteristics. That is why the path we are opening is very important, so it is decisive and decisive that we be very aware that we are setting a precedent. The Government - I want all parliamentary groups to know this - is very aware of this. Extraordinary measures are for extraordinary circumstances and in the face of a global challenge we have to give global answers. The state of alarm affects fundamental rights and the system of competition distribution and the Government of Spain, ladies and gentlemen, has declared this when it considered it appropriate to do so, keeping this difficult balance in a composite State like ours and, logically, also safeguarding the fundamental rights and freedoms that are recognized in our Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has mobilised all available resources, civil and military, public and private, to overcome this crisis - which we are going to overcome - and continues to strive, as never before had a government in forty years of democracy in this country, to safeguard the only important thing now, which is the public. That is also the explanation of some of the measures we took last week, such as enabling a EUR 1 billion contingency fund to be granted to the Ministry of Health, or anticipating the deliveries to the autonomous communities so that they themselves also have a financial mattress to be able to direct, to the extent that they deem it appropriate, to protect the National Health System in their hands. We will not leave anyone behind, we will take the necessary steps when necessary and I hope you can count on the support of your group. Measures have already been taken to ensure that people who are infected or in a situation of confinement can have their income guaranteed, which was already done last week and also yesterday with the management of ERTE to ensure that jobs are protected. At last Tuesday's Council of Ministers, 17 March, extraordinary measures were taken that fall within the competence of the productive fabric, as you know. I think it is very important to emphasise this too: it is EUR 200 billion: EUR 100 billion in public resources, to which we must add almost EUR 25 billion between what we did yesterday and what we did last week with public input, plus what can be mobilised in the private sphere. We are talking about the greatest mobilization of resources in the history of our democracy, twenty points of gross domestic product, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Esteban, we will continue to be demanding with Europe, no doubt. In the waiting room of any hospital we realize that the disease does not address gender, territory or ideology. This is a human challenge, ladies and gentlemen, so we will work tirelessly to meet each and every one of the needs presented, the individual and the collective. We are listening, we are empathizing and we will not fail to listen, to empathize, to put ourselves at the service of the complexity of this harsh reality that we hope will end as soon as possible. So I count on your support. We are aware of the new dangers that haunt homeless people, women and children who do not have their basic needs covered. Ladies and gentlemen, the confinement - it has been said here - is a very hard test for a population like ours, which lives in apartments of 20 or 25 square meters. Perhaps during these first four days of containment of the state of alarm some family will experience it as a novelty, but as the days go by it will be very hard. As President of the Government, I want to empathize and sympathize with all families because the measures we have taken are very harsh, very forceful and restrict and limit the fundamental rights of citizens, but they are measures that we consider essential to contain the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, there are people who are alone, and this is what has been said. There are dependent people, with special needs that right now cannot access basic services, there are people who have nowhere to go. We know, ladies and gentlemen, we know. To emerge strengthened from this pandemic means to strengthen the stability of an entire country, of all its inhabitants and of its entire territory. Here there has been talk of emptied Spain and I too sympathize and empathize with that reality. That is the challenge presented to us and to which we are facing humbly and, also, with the help of all of you. I will not cease in the effort to care for everyone and everyone, that we are all protected. Mr Esteban, first of all, I would also like to thank you for the tone and all the effort that the Basque Country, Euskadi, is making, every citizen, every health professional, every person with all their effort and all their generosity. They know that any decision taken on this crisis has been considered - as I said before to Mr Rufián - and coordinated with the autonomy and with the rest of the European countries. Coordination, cooperation and collaboration that have been, as I said in my last appearances and you know, our axes of action. I want you to know that this decision has not been easy for the Spanish Government at all because it believes in the autonomous system, and that it does not mean any reproach or lack of confidence in the autonomous governments, in particular the Basques, and in those responsible for the health of all the Autonomous Communities and the Basques. You have made reference to Europe, I completely agree. There are debates that we have to open and that are already opening, as I defended yesterday at the European Council that we had by videoconference. For example, there is a big difference with regard to the 2008 financial crisis, since today, as you have rightly pointed out, we have an instrument to deal with this crisis, which is the MEDE. Let us hope that we can review it among all to give effect to this need that we are going to have on the financial markets throughout the European Union, because this is a symmetrical crisis, not a crisis that affects one country and not another. This is a crisis that affects Europe as a whole, no matter what it is called Germany, Spain, France, Italy, Luxembourg or Holland. We are talking about a symmetrical crisis and, therefore, we need to put in place all the mechanisms we have developed and learned from after the 2008 financial crisis. Without a doubt, we have proposed both the creation - as the European Commission has also proposed - of this unemployment subsidy at European level complementary to national unemployment subsidies, such as the MEDE and the maximum flexibility of the structural funds, because we need these structural funds, these billions of euros, for the autonomous communities, not only according to parameters and socio-economic criteria, but also of true impact - this is a fact, here are the data - of the coronavirus pandemic. I therefore very much appreciate the tone, support and, of course, convey my respect and appreciation to the Basque Government in these harsh circumstances. I would like to say to the spokesman for the BNG that, as I said before, for us the response to this crisis has been guided by the criteria that science has told us and that they are based and based on what the World Health Organization says. I repeat to you again: firstly, isolation measures, in line with the recommendations of scientists, experts; secondly, to address the socio-economic consequences of such isolation measures, which we are already seeing in many homes in our country, and thirdly, respect for human rights. I believe that, as a progressive force, you also share this approach. This pandemic has no territorial criteria, they are absolutely people's. We do not have - as I said before to the Republican Group and the Basque Nationalist Party - any criticism to make - and I want it to be recorded in the Journal of Sessions whenever possible - any autonomous community, all health advisers have worked side by side with the Minister of Health to contain this pandemic. We have only acted with this magnitude when we saw - thanks also to the judgement of scientists and experts - that it was necessary to activate and strengthen these coordination mechanisms by the General Administration of the State. Our vocation, Your Honor, as you can understand, is for the state of alarm to pass as soon as possible and for us to return to the dailyity of our affairs. But I reclaim the autonomous state, I reclaim it in its entirety. I believe that the lesson to be learned is precisely that those public health systems that are in the hands of the autonomous communities and also dependency services, social services, must be strengthened. We often talk about dependency and we forget about social services - the social services of many social workers - so important today, for example, for psychological care; for example, for the care of women and people who are victims of gender-based violence, for minors and for so many issues that need work - and I recognize that - of social workers. Please note, Your Honor, that we understand that this is a pandemic that affects people, not territories. And I'm going to give you a data just so that you keep it in mind: these drastic measures that we are taking, which have already been taken last week by different autonomous communities and which are now global throughout the country, have meant, for example, that trains to Galicia have a capacity of 6 to 8 % of the total. We are preserving a fundamental right, such as that of mobility, but it is very restricted. In addition, there is a very high social awareness on the part of citizens, live where they live, that they have to stay at home, and the measures are eloquent enough to see the extent to which different citizens are making use of this transport, which - I am sure - are doing so for absolutely essential and absolutely reasonable reasons. I repeat here that civic character of the behavior that all citizens, all Spaniards, are having live where they live. The deputy of Navarra Suma is very grateful for his support. I thank you very much for that appeal to consensus, to political unity. That is the appeal I made at the beginning of my speech. I hope that we can also find ourselves in the future parliamentary debates on the adoption of a budget that must be of social and economic reconstruction of the country. I also thank the head of Foro Asturias for his support and I remind him, as I have done with Mr Casado before, of the measures we have put in place to protect self-employed workers. To Teruel's spokesman, I must say that, of course, we are acting with intelligence and equity. Of course, I can assure you - although you have not questioned it, you have simply made a reference to the matter - that all the measures we are taking, logically, are being taken on a scientific basis. You have made reference, for example, to telework. One of the main lines I would like to share with you, with the whole House, of the lesson we have to draw is, of course, digitisation, but not only for teleworking, but also for public education. I would like to acknowledge, for example, the efforts being made by the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation, which will enable hours of its programming to teach children who do not have an Internet connection and who will be able to use the general media not to lose teaching hours or, at least, not to lose the habit of studying. Public services must therefore be strengthened. The lesson we have to learn from this pandemic is that the state has to become much stronger, that the state has to be much more robust. In that sense, if we have to do something, that is the task I would like to call the country and, without a doubt, all of you as representatives of it after this crisis: a plan of social and economic reconstruction that inevitably has to strengthen our welfare state. That is why I have proposed not only the processing of budgets, but also the setting up of an evaluation committee to draw exactly the lessons we need as public administrations so that in the future, when this is repeated - if it is repeated - we will find ourselves much better equipped - not only as a country, but also at European level - in order to be able to cope with this type of crisis. Mrs Lastra, the spokesman for the Socialist Group, I would like to thank her for her complicity. I would like to thank my party and my parliamentary group, thank you very much. These are not easy days that we are living. Thank you for defending - with more than 140 years of history - public services, for helping to forge and build the country that we have today, for your unceasing task, for your political effort and for your commitment. We have an unparalleled health system that we will continue to take care of, defend and strengthen, because it is what will protect us and ensure our present and our tomorrow. See, according to Bloomberg's 2018 Health-Efficiency Index report, Spain has the most efficient health in Europe; the most efficient in Europe, despite cuts; the most efficient in Europe and the third in the world, only behind Hong Kong and Singapore. Spain highlights in many health indicators, such as life expectancy, which is among the largest in the OECD, with an average of 83.5 years, and which will be the largest in the world from the year 2040, according to a new study developed by the Institute of Health Measurement and Evaluation of the University of Washington. Our country is the world leader in donation by number of inhabitants, in the possibility of accessing a transplant. The strength of the health system, ladies and gentlemen, combined with the good quality of life in our country, explains that Spain has one of the highest life expectancy in the world, namely the highest in the European Union, the third largest in the world, as I have said before, after Japan and Switzerland, with an average of 83.1 years, according to the World Health Organization. Let us continue to take care of our country, ladies and gentlemen; that is all I can ask of my parliamentary group: trust and complicity. You know that we have one of the best health systems in the world, with many professionals, with the ratio I said before, competent, capable. They are the safest shield, I would say, rather than shield, the safest network against common diseases and also in cases of a health emergency such as the current one. There is no greater justification for us now than ever to protect and strengthen our public health, our public services. I must also say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that reducing freedoms is something that a government in democracy can do only when it is necessary, absolutely necessary. We have faced many things for the first time, Mrs Lastra, you know it well, and this is also the first time that the State has faced a pandemic of these characteristics. Extraordinary measures are for extraordinary circumstances. Therefore, what I want to say to you is that we, in this state of alarm affecting fundamental rights and competition distribution, want to give a proportionate, effective and balanced response. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lastra, our area of action and our will is to leave no one behind and we will therefore continue to take the necessary measures when necessary. I thank you all again for your support. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u31	Yes, Madam President. I'm going to intervene from the seat, because today is not a day for refs or for counter-replications. During this session, the figures of this catastrophe have already risen to 560 dead and almost 14,000 infected; as we feared, by the way, the curve coincides with the date that some of you take your sleep away. We will fulfill the quarantine of the partisan confrontation in this state of alarm with institutional loyalty, a loyalty that contrasts, by the way, with the criticisms of some of your partners to us, but also to you. By their reiteration, let me just tell you that it is not time to confront the public and the private - we are all private individuals who are part of the public -, above all, it is not time when the most vulnerable are the workers of the companies and the self-employed, also those who have not ceased their activity but do not enter; that is what we asked of them, that they do not pay a quota either. What is urgent now is to protect all healthcare professionals, to work wherever they work, and that I would ask them to do today with the protection teams that have been demanding, even during this session, for social networks. Now the only priority is to contain the pandemic, to cure the sick, to prevent more deaths, to prevent someone from being left behind in the economic crisis that has already arrived, and for that, Mr Sánchez, to do what needs to be done and to ensure that that is enough. In this serious crisis, you have our support to defend all Spaniards. Don't let them down again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Casado. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u33	Thank you very much, President. Mr Sánchez, you start your reply with interesting reflections: you speak of the word of experts and say that the virus does not discriminate by country. That is true, but the consequences of the virus do discriminate on the basis of how it is faced, contingency plans, measures taken and the time chosen to take such measures. In the growth of a geometric progression the first moments are key, and they are because the basis from which that growth begins irreparably determines the final result. It is not the same thing to take action soon, as it was done in Shanghai or South Korea, places where the virus does not discriminate by race but by how it is faced, than to do so when it suits one politically. Here the relevant thing is not if others have a bias of retrospect, but if you have a bias of ideology, that's what we fear. That is why the question is not what we knew - what we knew or asked has been recorded in this Congress with the questions we have been asking -, the question is how much you knew, when you decided to act and why you hid the reality of the data if you knew them, because if you did not know them it is even worse, it is worse, being at the head of the system, not knowing them. You are the ones who govern; you are the ones who handle the data; you are the ones who have to know what is happening. Faced with that, we can, in fact, ask questions, prudent questions, not sensible propositions of law, without having the amount of information you have. I'm very afraid that what it's starting to look like is that those data that you did have you've been using for your own benefit. Therefore, one thing is the supposed hindsight bias and another very different the ease you have to hide the reality from the Spaniards. This has already happened with the Socialist Party in 2008, with the economic crisis, and gives the feeling that it is going back to the crisis of the coronavirus. Look, what needs to be done is to focus on governing and putting aside your ego and party interests for a moment. There's no country to endure party bullshit. Let us focus on what we are and let us stop using ideology for the benefit of one another. Mr Sánchez, strategic sectors of our economy have been paralysed, such as car production - in which Spain is the third largest manufacturer in Europe, the first in diesel, and one of the main sectors in the world - tourism and restoration, key sectors for our economic well-being; we are witnessing a wave of collective redundancies that is only beginning, and this is going to bring even more unemployment; and millions of Spaniards are today showing enormous responsibility confined in their homes. Much of this evil is due to the delay of some rulers who have been negligent at the time of making decisions - they have taken them late and badly, Mr President, and believe me that I do not say it joyfully, I say it with real pain -, some rulers who, instead of preparing contingency plans for a situation that has proved very serious, were minimizing the problem, perhaps more concerned by ultraideological initiatives to divide the Spaniards; initiatives, by the way, which today would be portrayed as quite ridiculous if it were not for the dramatic reason that they were dedicating themselves to that rather than preparing contingency plans for what might come. And I haven't heard any of them apologize to the Spaniards yet. I know that you are not going to do that, it does not go with its nature, but I do hope that today you will amend your mistakes, rectify the course and fulfill your word to govern for all Spaniards. Mr Sánchez, you have begun your reply by saying that you will not confront, that today is not the day for that, that today your task is to unite. If so, we would have nothing more to add, we would square ourselves and behind you, Mr President, but that is what you said today and does not correspond to what you did yesterday. What you did yesterday was take advantage of this crisis to introduce a rather totalitarian ideology by decree. Yesterday they made use of a decree-law on aid against the coronavirus to change the law that regulates the National Intelligence Center at a time when we have five hundred dead and thousands affected. How do you expect a country to remain united and trust in your Government if you take advantage of such a dramatic decree to satisfy the totalitarian temptations of Mr. Iglesias? More than five hundred dead and rising; that is more than the war in Iraq or any of the evils you claim to protect the Spaniards. If it is time for unity, which we do believe, work for the Spanish as a whole. Last Saturday, 14 March, all Spaniards suspected that the Council of Ministers was extending not because of their concern for the Spaniards or because of their concern about what measures to take to ensure their well-being, but rather because of the measures that Mr. Iglesias wanted to take to implement his criminal ideology. Today, Mr Sánchez, it has been confirmed that what we suspected that day is reality, and that will be recorded in the Journal of Sessions. Perhaps that has no value to you, but future generations of Spaniards who want to approach and see what happened here will have faithfully reflected it and will know how some of their rulers acted. Mr Iglesias and you are a very dangerous combination for Spain, because they pose a danger to the survival of the nation if you really manage to carry out the ideas and plans that we are seeing developed in the midst of a crisis and virtually without parliamentary control. Mr. Iglesias feels the same affection and concern for the Spaniards that Stalin could have for the Russian people, that Fidel for his Cuban compatriots or that Maduro for his Venezuelan compatriots, that is, none. They are nothing to him, not the vulnerable, not the sick, not the most needy, not the people who are at risk or all those things he says; they mean nothing to him, because life in his head is at the service of power. Don't fool the Spaniards or their voters any more. Do not repeat that the country is hospitals, schools or social services; they are not interested in anything. Your only homeland is you. In its day, the fifty-two deputies of VOX appealed to the Constitutional Court the royal decree approved by his Government which regulated, among other matters, the Government Delegate Commission for the CNI. It included among its members precisely Paul Iglesias. We ask for your declaration of illegality and your provisional suspension, because Law 11/2002, which regulates the CNI, already establishes strictly who make up that delegated Commission and only provides for the presence of a vice president at the head of it, in this case, Mrs Carmen Calvo. The principles of normative hierarchy and legality had been violated, and the only way you had to deactivate our resource was by changing the law. And that has been done by you, but by cover, using the figure of the royal decree-law in the midst of the crisis in an unconstitutional way. This measure has nothing to do with the reasons of extraordinary urgency that justify the legislative power of the Government. We have been robbed of the legislative competence of the Courts and, therefore, I can now announce that, as soon as it is validated, the fifty-two deputies of VOX are going to appeal to the Constitutional Court again. Supporting him in his fight against the virus, yes, we will support him despite his mistakes, despite his ideological bias, but what they have done is a mockery of the Spanish and an insult to those affected by the COVID-19. This is not serious and they are going to find themselves in front of the Spaniards, whom we are not going to fail, because we are loyal to the nation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u34	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u35	Fortunately, we have VOX. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u36	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Echenique Robba.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u37	Thank you, President. I'm speaking from down here because I don't have an enabled microphone there. I think what they're after is nauseating speeches like the one we just heard is that we answer them, so I'm not gonna do it. [[Applauds]] I want to begin by thanking Valentina and the Valentinas throughout our country who are ensuring that we can carry out the minimum activity that can be carried out in these times. I want to thank all the workers of Congress, the cashiers and cashiers of the supermarkets, the repos, the truckers, the taxi drivers and, of course, all the health workers and the agents who have already been mentioned here, the police, the Civil Guard and the soldiers who are on the streets protecting us. I think it is rigorous to thank them for their work. We talked before the courage and dignity of our people and I think we have to say it every time we need it and we have to live up to all those people. I want to support the strategy of restricting mobility - I have already done so in my initial intervention - but primarily the economic strategy of the Government. My group thinks it is vital that when the epidemic passes and we overcome the virus there is a bouncing in the form of a grape in the economy and not a bouncing in the form of u or in the form of it. Fortunately, we already know how that is achieved, we learned from the past economic crisis. The austerity and rules that were dictated to deal with the latest economic crisis were not only cruel to the social majority, but also failed economic prescriptions. Countries that cut their public services did not move forward economically faster than countries that bet on public investment and on protecting the welfare state. We already know that these recipes do not work, fortunately we already know, and we also know how to deal with an economic crisis, which is protecting the humblest people, strengthening the welfare state and betting on courageous public investment, when epidemics happen, and on strategic sectors of our economy, such as the energy transition, the digital revolution or the care economy. The second good news, besides the fact that we already know how to deal with economic crises such as the one that will undoubtedly result from the epidemic of the coronavirus, is that this has fortunately become orthodoxy. Not even the old Troika thinks as she thought in 2008. Mrs Merkel is already announcing large public investment packages; the International Monetary Fund has called for increased public spending on health as a matter of urgency; Europe recently - and fortunately the Spanish Government has been able to use this margin - has allowed expenditure of 1% of GDP and guarantees, credits of up to 10% of gross domestic product; Mrs Von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, has said that in order for Member States to be comfortable and adopt the necessary measures, maximum flexibility would be given to the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact; the Economic Vice-President of the European Commission has said in the text: we are ready to activate the general escape clause to accommodate more general fiscal policy support; even an article in the Constitution which our group does not particularly like, 135, says that the limits of structural deficit and public debt volume can be overcome in the event of natural disasters, economic recession or extraordinary emergencies. Obviously, this is why the Government of our country was betting yesterday, and that is why I said in my initial speech that I am proud of the Government of my country. Our parliamentary group thinks that this is the way forward and also thinks that it is a majority feeling. We have even heard Members of Parliament say that austerity rules must be made more flexible in a situation like this. And without further ado, President, convey our group's thanks to the Government for the way in which it has been chosen. We think that we need to continue to deepen it, we think that there are still things to be done, but we are convinced that, if we continue along that path, we will not only end the virus, but we will also be able to alleviate the suffering of the social majority of our country, economic suffering and in material conditions of life, and we will also get the Spanish economy to bounce back when we have defeated the coronavirus. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u39	Thank you very much, President. I too am speaking from the seat, as the Bureau has asked us to do. I think if anyone deserves a round of applause today, it's Valentina. I want to make a clarification, an appeal and a memory. The clarification is as follows. I am a Catalan who is living all this from Madrid, confined in Madrid. I haven't seen my son in days, and I'm sure there's a lot more left. It's nothing exceptional, it's happening to hundreds of thousands of people, including, for example, the Conseller of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Alba Vergés, who is in Barcelona and her family confined in Igualada. I repeat, it is nothing exceptional; I say this because I made this decision to stay here in Madrid - therefore, I was able to come to this plenary - because, in the face of the royal decree of state of alarm, I decided that, as I worked in an outbreak of infection, with infected people, it was enormously irresponsible to return to my home. That is why I am here today, not to expose my family or the citizenry and, above all, because Esquerra Republicana understands that this Plenary is an essential service more and that Catalonia deserved to be heard as well. A memory: the one I do to my fellow men and women who are unjustly in jail. We don't forget about them today either. I don't even want to imagine what it must be like to start dating, like they were doing after two years, and having to go back to a cell. One call: See you on the balconies. Today, at eight o'clock, to applaud the one who gives us, and today, at nine o'clock, with a box, to protest against the one who takes us away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u40	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. There are things that never disappoint. I find it absolutely demented to mix this crisis with Comrade Stalin today. Today, with this coronavirus crisis, I have a strange feeling. I don't know if I should be here, but knowing that today there are millions of Spaniards working for everyone, taking care of us, I thought my site was this too. In the years I've been here, I've seen two ways to deal with the two big crises. Eight years ago, when I came into this Parliament, I voted a no-fly to a president who faced the crisis by saving the banks, making a job reform so that they could throw out workers and unburdening the full weight of the crisis into the weakest. That's why ours wasn't straight. And we gave our vote - one of the two that was decisive - for Mr Sánchez to be president, because we hoped that this new crisis would be dealt with differently. And we agree on how he's coping. We share the measures that have been taken and will not at this time hear criticism from Compromises. We understand that it is time to add, to tie the shoulder and, above all, to learn from the successes that are being made and also from the mistakes that are undoubtedly also being made. Since Compromís we want to highlight some of the things that are important to us, if not today, they will be in the coming days, because the situation changes day by day and, of course, we will have to face new measures. First of all, I would like to stress the importance - I know, it is my theme - of good autonomous funding so that our autonomous communities can attend to health, education and social services as a matter of urgency. Secondly, we ask this progressive Government for a little more ambition; exceptional funding for the social resources network, so that there is greater attention and social services for the elderly; ensuring that children from families who are having a bad time, as is being done in the Valencian Community; please provide personal protective equipment for health services, this is absolutely urgent; and that a new look is given to the issue of rents, and to the issue of quotas for self-employed people. Finally, we cannot forget our people, those people who in many cases had to leave, as happened in that crisis, who are now out of the country wanting to return and cannot. Finally, I would like to make two exceptions: the first with the European Union, which has behaved like a stepmother, who always demands sacrifices from us, but who is never up to it when it has to be generous; and the second, the head of state, I think he has not been up to it, is late and today I think he should ask you what a lot of people are going to ask at nine o'clock in the evening. I'm done with some wishes. When all this happens, let all these applause that are going to resonate today in balconies and windows become a reinforcement for our public health, become complaints every time someone has the temptation to privatize a piece of our welfare state, that it becomes fair prices for our farmers, farmers and fishermen, that they do not resell at loss prices; let this not prevent us from working for a fair financing system that strengthens our health. Finally, let these applause become a strong social state, which is able to hold its shoulder and try to save everyone. And when all this passes, let the distances become embraces, and that I may finally embrace my grandson Manel. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u43	Madam President, we have spoken today in plenary on several occasions about the unity needed to deal with this crisis, and it is true that it is important; but the most important thing is not that we give reason to each other, parliamentarians in a semi-empty Congress, in fact the example of unity is already being given by the Spanish people. The Spanish people have retreated to their homes with remarkable discipline, with much sacrifice; they help themselves among neighbors; to me the neighbors who fire me or greet me every day when at eight o'clock we applaud, there will be some who fall better, to others worse, but the Spanish people are already giving an example of unity. What is needed now is not only the question of unity; the Spanish people are already united in the confrontation of this crisis; what is needed is that in addition the confinement does it with calm, calm and with the certainty that when it comes out of this it will have a roof, will have a job, will have opportunities and will not find a collapsed landscape; that is, that the State will take care of the country while we have all confined ourselves. That is why I think it is particularly important for the Government to go a little further, not to satisfy me, but because, if this is a war, we must win it, and I believe that we all know that these measures are a good first step, but we must continue to take steps; and we must continue to take steps to protect people who are not going to be able to pay rents, and we must continue to take steps to protect the self-employed, to ban layoffs and to ensure that those who have more at a difficult time are able to shoulder them. And in this regard, a note to the foot, if anyone else has to tie his shoulder, I think today would be a magnificent time for the Crown to announce that the Emeritus King gives the 100 million, allegedly illegally received from Saudi Arabia, to the Spanish public health. If we are in a war, we must win it, and we must win it with a consensus similar to that of the postwar period of World War II: to get out of it with public services and a stronger state. I believe that today we realize how expensive it is to cut in public; it is true that it involves mobilizing money, but the other is much more expensive. We have to go out with a stronger state, go out with a society with more community ties, and go out with an ambitious Marshall plan that will revitalize and protect the Spanish economy. I'm sure we'll get out of this. If we also come out with this consensus, we will come out much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u45	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is actually relatively easy to do politics when things are going well. The truth is that there are always emergencies and problems to be solved, but the government always knows - whatever it is, in addition - how to manage the day-to-day, the opposition too, and also the administration knows it. The true temple of a country - today that we put ourselves, if I may, epic - and of its leaders is measured when things go wrong, as is the case with the pandemic, when new problems arise that require new answers, because when the certitudes disappear it is when the doubt begins and in this case assumes anxiety, which I believe is what is happening to us too. We have never - never - faced a crisis like this and it is a situation that puts us all to the test: it tests our strength as a country, it tests our ability to react, to give a response, to act in a new threatening territory that is also unexplored, and it also tests all of us, who have political responsibility in this case. We will come out of this crisis, and we have said it all; from this crisis we will come out, but Spain that comes out of this crisis will be different, and that Spain is better is everyone's responsibility, starting with those who have a responsibility to society, so today we are here, in this plenary. This crisis will be overcome together and a more cohesive and united Spain must emerge from this crisis. This crisis will be overcome with responsibility and the Spain that comes out of it has to be, if I may, more aware that we are not an aggregate of individuals, but that we are a community, that we all have a responsibility towards each other, that we depend on each other, as I explained in my initial intervention. Politicians, especially in the face of a situation like this, what we have to do is reflect the best of our society, because we represent it to it; we have to live up to it, as much has also been said during this session. The government, Mr President, has the support, as you know, of the Socialist Group, and I only ask the rest of the groups to do the same as we are asking the rest of the citizens: unity and responsibility; the same as we are asking the citizens. Can we give you more of that? I'm sure it is. For example, we strive and serve as an example for society as a whole, but what we cannot and must not give less. So, ladies and gentlemen, unity and responsibility, because it is the only way to overcome the crisis, because that is the way to defeat the virus. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u46	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u47	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude this sitting by thanking you for your attendance, also for your presence and for the work you are all doing. These are not easy days for anyone. Moreover, as we have seen here, we are moving between the will to discuss ideas and proposals, which is the same as political action, and the imperative need to act together in the face of the situation we are going through. But in that dilemma, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that there is no alternative, which we must show, as the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group said earlier, unity with the contributions of everyone and from their perspective. I also believe that over these hours and these intense days we have had the ability and opportunity to speak with all of you, to transfer our opinion to you too, the measures we had to put in place, some of which you also thought we had to put in place, some of which we did not. In short, with the contributions of everyone, but always in the same direction, which I believe is what we have to underline today. There are facts, there are realities, which we can no longer question. It is obviously not my pretension to change anyone's ideas, but it is no less true that many ideas will change - that is to say - after what has happened, what we are experiencing, for example, certain battles. No one can doubt that we need the help and participation of all, that we will need to reach agreements, alliances and support that until just weeks ago many were committed to considering unimaginable, for example, in the debate on coexistence. A virus reminds us of something that Mr Baldoví has said, reminds us of the most essential truth, and it is that we are all equal, citizens of the same world, exposed to the same risks, the same hopes and the same needs, and that the borders leap through the air when we face the reality of this global world in which we live; those physical and ideological borders that have much more to do with mental abstractions than with the real life of people. For example, the public dimension too, ladies and gentlemen. I think this is a turning point. The fiscal debate I think is never going to be the same, it shouldn't be. The need to equip our public services with the necessary means, to be more resilient, to achieve excellence, I believe that after this pandemic is such absolute evidence that I hope it will remain outside the political debate. And those who do not know how to see it will remain outside the political debate, it is so simple, because this is going to change us all; it has changed the political debate already, so it concerns us all to learn the first great lesson, which is indisputable: we must strengthen the welfare state and our National Health System. [[Applauds]] Our world is going to change after this, and I know that you are perfectly aware of it, so let us not lose a second in appearing to convince one another of something that we are all perfectly aware of. We therefore have to rebuild. That is the task that this House will face during this parliamentary term: to rebuild. Many things have been destroyed in the recent past, ladies and gentlemen - many, too many -: links that united us, systems that protected us from possible threats that today are a reality and that gave us security, services that are gradually dismantled that now all, left and right, miss. And we have to rebuild together, not only political parties, different legitimately represented options here, but also governments, from the small municipality to the big city: a provincial parliament, a council, a lobby, an autonomous community, a government of Spain, Europe. We must also rebuild the nature of our political debate, ladies and gentlemen, because the discussion is particularly necessary when we take measures of such a kind as those we are taking in these days of restriction of mobility, of fundamental rights of the citizens, of an economic and social response that represents nothing more and nothing less than 20% of the annual wealth capacity that the whole country has. We must contemplate all possibilities, bring ideas and initiatives; question, yes, but with complicity, with intelligence. If something good can bring us this crisis, ladies and gentlemen, it will be the end of the destruction debate, because, ladies and gentlemen, this is a temporary crisis, as I have repeated throughout the debate, but its teachings are here to stay; they must stay; we need to stay and move from the debate of the destruction that we have had during these years of crisis to a reconstruction debate, in which the public must have its role, but certainly also civil society as a whole. This, ladies and gentlemen, has been an exceptional appearance for many reasons. We are doing it under extraordinary circumstances, which we will certainly never forget either those who are here or those who are seeing us through the media. None of us, of us, would have wanted to live this historical moment - I am convinced -, an adjective, by the way, which we often use excessively, but which in this case has full reason to be. I wish we were not in this situation - the Spaniards are looking at us and we have to be on the right track - and I hope that the exercise of politics could today focus on a much simpler territory, but, ladies and gentlemen, we have a mission and we have to assume it with the same exemplaryness with which citizens are acting in these critical days. Despite some of the things that have been said here, and which, honestly, I deeply regret, I want to say to you: I am absolutely convinced that our ability as political leaders to successfully assume and develop the task before us and to be entrusted to us by the Spaniards is beyond doubt. I would therefore like to express my confidence in you, in all of you and the confidence that I have that together we will be able to overcome this crisis and come out of it more united and stronger. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-18-CD200318.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. The Congress of Deputies has fulfilled the obligations imposed by article 116 of the Spanish Constitution with regard to the declaration of the state of alarm. The meeting rose. It was one and fifty minutes in the afternoon.
