ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, we once again hold a plenary session of Congress under extraordinary conditions, the same conditions that mark the life of the citizenry, of all Spanish society. Today we meet to take on our ordinary responsibilities that cannot be postponed in the validation of various decree-laws and to exercise those that we have in connection with this crisis and the Government's request to extend the current state of alarm. Like so many Spaniards, we do so from the utmost respect for our own tasks and those of others, and we all do so with the will to contribute to overcoming this situation in the best possible way. This shared will does not prevent political discrepancy, but instead makes the debate and discussion an instrument of citizen information and improvement of the decisions to be taken. Also, like so many Spaniards, we have had to adapt our operating rules in order to maintain the parliamentary function and to minimize health risks and the allocation to the general rules of conduct in force. That is why, in addition to those present in the Chamber, more than three hundred Members of the House follow the plenary from their home, who fulfil the same responsibility as those present and who will exercise the vote on a telematic basis, as agreed by the Bureau and the Board of Spokespersons. Media professionals, who perform their essential function from a distance, also follow the plenary session. As President of the House, I would also like to express to you my commitment to the maintenance of parliamentary functions and my readiness to adopt the forecasts that will ensure it under the current sanitary and material conditions. I am sure that I speak on behalf of all the members of this House once again to express our regret and condolences to those who have suffered these days the loss of their loved ones and our support for those who fight to overcome the disease and the crisis; also our personal and institutional recognition to all those who, through their work, maintain essential services, and especially to those who deal with the safety and health of others, of each and every citizen of Spain. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u2	Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Pablo Arangüena Fernández, I ask Don Diego Antonio Taibo Monelos if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u3	I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u4	In place of Marina Ortega Otero, I ask Uxía Tizón Vázquez if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u5	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u6	Don Diego Antonio Taibo Monelos and doña Uxía Tizón Vázquez have acquired full status as MPs. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u7	We begin with the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 4/2020 of 18 February, which repeals the objective dismissal for lack of labour assistance provided for in Article 52(d) of the Consolidated Text of the Act on the Status of Workers, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 23 October. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the Minister of Labour and Social Economy has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u8	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Just over a month ago, the Royal Decree-Law repealing Article 52(d) of the Workers' Statute was published in the State Official Gazette, which today we bring to debate and vote in this House for validation. As you know, this royal decree-law repeals the article that allowed, to date, the objective dismissal for lack of work attendance including absences for common justified diseases. This was like this until a couple of months ago. Even if it seems to be a lie, in Spain a worker who did not attend work could be dismissed for being ill, even if he had a medical justification. That objective cause of dismissal existed until 2012 and the 2012 labour reform facilitated its use. Today we find it difficult to understand from a work point of view, from a public and business health point of view. First, to heal and then to work for the good of everyone. This is the first duty of working people when they are sick. Never, under any circumstances, go to work sick or sick for fear of being fired. Take care, avoid contact with other people and heal. We knew then, but now that evidence has become an absolute, unquestionable truth, when we face the global health crisis caused by the coronavirus. Today, when we talk about protecting one's own health and public health, we are more aware of the absurdity of this article 52.d). Today, knowledge about occupational health is not limited to unknown WHO recommendations or health prevention circulars. We've learned. We have always known that health is one of our most precious assets, but unfortunately, today we know that self-care also guarantees the protection of others. It's not coming from now. Health authorities in all countries and in all political colours have set standards for sick people not to attend their jobs, for their own health and to avoid spread. And it is that in reality the most common causes of absence from work are viral diseases of easy contagion. This is what it is about, that staying at home because you are sick cannot be a reason for dismissal because, moreover, in many cases it is not just a health recommendation for the person but for public health. Article 52(d) of the Workers'Statute involved an attack on the health of workers who were forced to attend work against their will, which could exacerbate their illness. It sought the basic principles of occupational safety and health by turning workplaces into places at greater risk of disease, and was systematically attacking public health by inducing sick people to go to places where they can spread their disease. Because this measure is also negative for companies. If we force sick people to go to work we can cause the opposite effect and the number of casualties is much higher. But we are not just talking about health, we are talking about dismissals based on unfair causes and this also violates fundamental rights. No one can be fired for justified absences. We have said this from the outset, fundamental rights cannot be touched and are not subject to negotiation. These are historical conquests of rights. In the same way that we have managed to limit working hours or the right to a retirement pension, it had also been achieved that they would not be able to fire you for illness. With this royal decree-law we are, in short, recovering rights; we are ending up with a Spanish anomaly in the field of work, an unjustifiable situation that has no place in any legal system of our environment. With this royal decree-law we are adapting the Spanish legislation to the rules and jurisprudence of the Union and removing from our unfortunate order vestiges of the past. In any case, it is true that the target dismissal for lack of assistance was an already old figure, coming from the first drafting of the 1980 Workers' Statute, and fortunately, very little used in the past. It could be said that the target dismissal for lack of assistance has remained in force in the Spanish legal system during these forty years because it barely affected, given its limited use, but everything changed when the labour reform of 2012 made a slight change in its formulation that, suddenly, caused this kind of dismissal to begin to be used. In practice, this derogation implies restoring a right abolished by the 2012 labour reform. What has happened since that reform is well known. It was simply facilitated that this cause of dismissal could be used by the employer. Before 2012, as you know, two requirements were required: a volume of the worker's non-attendance and, in addition, a volume of overall non-attendance was required in the company. This second element, the volume of global inactivity, served to reflect that the company was suffering material damage from absenteeism. But with the 2012 reform, this second requirement disappeared, which precisely measured the proportionality of a measure as drastic as dismissal. The outcome is known: there has been an increase in the use of layoffs for lack of assistance. What was previously an invisible norm has become an effective formula for firing workers. There are many indications that we can prove this drastic increase in the number of layoffs for this cause. In fact, the objective dismissal for absenteeism has been an uncomfortable figure since it was invented forty years ago and was discussed in this very Congress of Deputies. In the Diary of Sessions of December 18, 1979, there is what the then deputy Felipe González literally said about this dismissal: Here it is a question of consecrating the original sin in the Statute of the Workers. As a number of workers sin, they have to pay all the remaining workers. And that's exactly what this is, that they pay righteous for sinners. If a few abuse we act on this abuse, not on the whole. It is indecency to regard all working people as suspects. Felipe González himself added in his speech: This is a legal monstrosity and an absolute lack of equity. In short, we believe that this is the first time that the fight against absenteeism has been introduced throughout the world by a procedure like this. It was 1979. This legal monstrosity had to be corrected over the years in order, precisely, to exclude absences that could lead to this dismissal and that were totally intolerable. So it happened, as you know, with accidents at work, with maternity leave, with holidays. The last exclusion was precisely the absences from gender-based violence incorporated precisely in 2012. In the end, the only absences that allowed the application of the target dismissal due to lack of assistance were unjustified, and casualties due to common disease lasting less than twenty days, i.e., the most common. But the possibility of someone being fired legitimately because he accumulates casualties due to common disease lasting less than twenty days makes no sense. At the outset, both the fraud of the affected person and the malfunctioning of the medical discharge system without evidence and without alternatives are presumed. There is also another major problem: targeted dismissal due to lack of assistance harms the most vulnerable people, particularly people with disabilities or basic chronic diseases, who are more likely to have a higher number of short-term medical casualties precisely as a result of these diseases. It is in this area that our country has been warned by the Court of Justice of the European Union that Article 52(d) of the Workers' Statute contravenes Directive 2000/78 on equal treatment in employment and occupation. This was established routinely by the ECJ in its judgment of 18 January 2018 in the Ruiz Conejero case. In this judgment, the ECJ warned Spain that the target dismissal for lack of assistance was discriminatory on the grounds of disability. The Spanish rule, the court said, involved indirect discrimination on the grounds of disability, given the higher incidence of short-term falls in persons with disabilities. The judgement also indicated that measures such as this, which may have perverse effects on persons with disabilities, could only be considered legitimate if they were intended to combat absenteeism and were not beyond what is strictly necessary. But the Spanish dismissal, of article 52(d) of the Workers' Statute, does not meet these requirements nor is it adequate to combat absenteeism or has limits to ensure its proportionality; when a fundamental right such as the right to non-discrimination on the grounds of disability is at stake, it has no place. The judgment against Spain in the Ruiz Conejero case is not an isolated judgment; you know that, for years now, the ECJ has established that dismissals for lack of assistance are indirect discrimination in other judgments, e.g. that of 11 April 2003, the Danmark case, and also, recently, that of 11 September 2019. There is therefore no option: Article 52(d) of the Staff Regulations must be removed from the Spanish legal system simply because it is contrary to Directive 2000/78. They are also aware that a few months ago the Constitutional Court ruled on the objective dismissal for lack of assistance and considered that it was suited to the Spanish Constitution; it did so in Judgment 118/2019 of 16 October. Target dismissal for lack of assistance should not only be removed from the legal system because it is harmful to persons with disabilities, it also has a perverse effect on other vulnerable groups such as people with long-term illnesses and people with dependants. There is another particularly vulnerable group in the labour market that may be affected by the target dismissal for lack of assistance; it is the group of persons responsible for the care of dependents that, as is well known and statistically observed, is composed mostly of women. It would appear that our article 52(d) respected conciliation rights because it expressly stated that parental leave would be out of the question for the purposes of dismissal, but it is clear that this does not solve the most common problems. Indeed, people with care responsibilities face hardly foreseeable situations; it is the greater family force that we so well know who we have had to pick up a daughter with a fever at school or attend to an older person, for example, because she has fallen. In the Union Directive 1158/2019 - which you are aware of and will be implemented as soon as possible - states must establish mechanisms to deal with the greater family force in situations that make the presence of the working person indispensable. It is clear that this obligation is not properly fulfilled if the persons who are to serve this greater family force are penalized. Moreover, if dismissal of sick persons is considered legitimate, solidarity between citizens is being undermined and the risk of exclusion of particularly vulnerable persons is being increased, as well as the right to health of persons is being jeopardized. But, regardless of legal qualifications, there are two fundamental principles that are unquestionable: on the one hand, that no one can be punished for exercising their rights and, on the other, that our legal system cannot legitimize behaviours that increase the risk of social exclusion of the most vulnerable groups. This is contrary not only to our international commitments as a country, but also to our commitments as a democratic society. The statement so far shows that the disappearance of our legal order from the objective dismissal for lack of assistance under article 52(d) of the Workers' Statute, must be done immediately by means of the royal decree-law for attending the extraordinary and urgent need proclaimed by article 86.1 of the Spanish Constitution. Firstly, it is a figure which contradicts what we have said in Directive 2078 on the establishment of a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation, because, as we have pointed out, it constitutes indirect discrimination on the grounds of disability - the Ruiz Conjero case -. By applying the principle of primacy of Union legislation, it is an obligation of the Member States that domestic legislation conforms to directives within the time limit for transposition. Since the deadline for transposition of Directive 2078 has already passed far, the maintenance of this figure could imply for the Spanish State the application of penalties for non-compliance, hence the urgency becomes inevitable. In addition, persons who in Spain had been injured by the maintenance of this form of dismissal could claim against the Spanish State for the damage suffered in breach of the directive. As you know, this is the doctrine emanating from the Francovich Sentence, which was dictated on November 19, 1991. In short, the failure to bring domestic legislation into line with European Union law must be corrected immediately, since the primacy of European Union law is a basic principle which is endowed with important measures to be effective. Secondly, the reform that took place in 2012 in the formulation of the target dismissal for lack of labour assistance has broadened the assumptions and led to an increase in the number of such redundancies. This, in itself, being a figure contrary to European Union law, reinforces the need for its immediate abolition. In addition, there has recently been an increase in judicial pronouncements on the matter which, as you know, do not always have identical content, which threatens legal certainty, which is a relevant constitutional principle to be preserved. There is therefore a necessary connection between the emergency situation set out above and the concrete measure taken to repeal Article 52(d) of the Workers' Statute, as it is necessary to eliminate immediately the situation which could lead to discrimination, legal uncertainty and non-compliance with the obligations arising from European law. It is necessary and urgent. In conclusion, I would like to tell you that the repeal of Article 52(d) was the first commitment of our government programme and came into force one month after it took possession. We've done it. It was a demand of an immense majority of citizens, I believe a cry in our country and, the Government of Spain, has complied with the citizenship. It was a requirement of European legislation, to end a work and democratic anomaly and thus ensure compliance with the directives. We have complied with Europe. It was a guarantee of fundamental rights to place health, care and non-discrimination at the heart of labour legislation. We have also complied with the Spanish Constitution, but above all we have complied with the millions of working people who lived under the threat of a possible dismissal. There's no right for them to fire you for getting sick. Today more than ever the right to health, the right that if you get sick no one can fire you for it. Right and responsibility so that sick people do not spread their disease. Public health and own health. The whole House is aware that there is no point in retaining Article 52(d). In fact, we have no record that anyone has defended the continuity of this precept. Let us act from the present and for the future. I ask you, on behalf of the Government of Spain, to vote in favour of this royal decree-law, looking forward, thinking about what we have learned in these weeks, a positive vote. It is time to value our health, to value our labour law, to protect the most vulnerable; it is time to give tranquillity and legal protection to all people who live from their work. After what we have learned in these days, let us send a clear and united message to our society: If you are sick, stay home. We owe it to ourselves and ourselves; we owe it to health professionals, who today in hospitals and clinics across the country give all their effort and dedication to healing us. Let us value our health today more than ever, defend it as our most precious good and listen to what people tell us every day from all the windows and balconies of our country. Thank you very much, and I hope you will give a positive vote to this royal decree. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Applause]] Thank you very much, Catalina. Doña Catalina Guille Domínguez and Doña Pilar Gil Díaz are going to protect us and give us security so that we can exercise our interventions from the rostrum of the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] He has requested the use of the turn against the VOX Parliamentary Group. I have the floor on behalf of this group, Mrs Romero Vilches.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u10	Thank you. Good afternoon. I never imagined that my first intervention from this rostrum was in such dramatic circumstances for our nation, and for the world in general, as we are going through. I want, on behalf of my party and on my own behalf, to express our deepest condolences to so many families who are being affected by this terrible disease and to thank the millions of Spaniards who leave their skin every day to make this situation a little more bearable. Madam Minister, on the subject before us and we are concerned, I must say, first of all, that the only extraordinary and urgent need that justifies you using a real decree-law to amend Article 52 of the Workers' Statute is the extraordinary and urgent need that you must continue to lie when you tell the Spaniards that you have repealed the labour reform. Gentlemen of the Government, today you come here to build what you call a story. The Government resorts to the royal decree-law only for propaganda reasons, to demonstrate to its foundations its supposed good intentions in social matters, although its measures, as is usually the case, cause terrible effects in the medium and long term. This, which a week ago was already a fraud and a deception to intelligence, now represents exactly one more step in the opposite direction than we have to take to make the impact of coronavirus on employment the least possible. You have found in article 52 a perfect excuse to continue to deceive the Spaniards, but among the 52 deputies of VOX you will not find only one that puts a job at risk due to propaganda and, therefore, our vote will be against the validation of this royal decree-law and in favor of processing as a bill. Madam Minister, the crisis caused by the COVID-19 and the negligence of this government in dealing with it will seriously affect the ability of our companies to maintain and create jobs. That is why it is important to safeguard the survival of the productive fabric as far as possible, by promoting measures that will help generate wealth. This is not the time for experiments. Our priority must remain employment and yours, it seems, is to feed your propaganda in front of your voters. Article 52 was not introduced by labour reform, because it had been part of the Workers' Statute since its adoption in 1980, as you have said. - Forty years ago. At least be honest and do not believe in subsequent reforms that your partners have maintained for so many years. The measure you are proposing does not mean any progress to make Spain create more and better jobs. You are in propaganda, which is the only thing you seem to be experts in. Therefore, as always as the left governs, the results are the same: the accelerated deterioration of the labour market. You have already done so with the inopportune rise in the minimum wage, because in real terms it means an increase in employment and a brake on employment. But how nice it is to say that you have raised your wages to the workers! How beautiful and how fake! You will be able to do all the propaganda in the world, but the propaganda unfortunately does not create employment. If I did, you would be champions of employment, but, as it is not, you are champions and champions of unemployment and lies. Mrs Díaz, with your blindness they had already placed our labor market at the edge of the abyss before the coronavirus crisis broke out, that crisis that Mr Fernando Simón said there was no need to worry about. Before this crisis came, we were talking about ERE and ERTE again. There have been 89 000 people affected by any employment regulation measures in 2019. You yourself have recognized that 2019 has been a year of deceleration, and I add that it is because of the uncertainty that create your socialcommunist recipes. Already before this crisis we had very important sectors, such as agriculture, in which jobs had begun to be destroyed with intensity and, in this, there is much to see their irresponsible crusade against diesel, knowing that for today it is the fuel that most rural workers use. We are now suffering a crisis that will have a very serious impact on the labour market and there is no account that can replace employment in people's lives, Minister. Article 52 (d) of the Workers' Statute does not seek to confront companies and employees, it does not seek arbitrary dismissal; for this purpose the judicial avenue of challenge is provided. The aim is to take measures to balance the protection of workers and the viability of companies against abuse. This issue should be dealt with without haste, without resorting to the way of the decree-law, in a calm debate and with the social partners, trade unions and business organisations, because this would make it possible to advance the necessary balance of labour relations, trying to deal reasonably with the damage that absenteeism causes to the productivity of enterprises and, consequently, to their ability to create employment. We would like to know whether you are aware of the problem of absenteeism at work and, if so, what measures you intend to take. If they do not know, absenteeism has an annual cost of EUR 71 million, an insurmountable cost for many of the small and medium-sized enterprises, which represent 99% of Spain's business fabric. In addition, in 2012 the protection of workers was strengthened by excluding from article 52(d) situations of pregnant women or persons with serious illnesses, for which in no case could the lack of assistance to justify dismissal be considered. There has been recent case law on these matters, as you have said, both European and Constitutional Court. We refer to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 18 January 2018 - Ruiz Conejero case - in which a preliminary ruling on the compatibility of Article 52(d) of the Staff Regulations with Directive 2000/78 of 27 November 2000 on equal treatment in employment and, on the other hand, with Constitutional Court judgment 118/2019 of 16 October. It seems that we have not understood those resolutions in the same way. Both resolutions are cited in the Government's report, although it is true that it does so in search of ways to make them say just the opposite of what they say. Because what the Constitutional Court's ruling really says is that the repealed provision is neither unconstitutional nor in any way breaches the requirements of the said European directive, which has been in force for twenty years. Moreover, what the Constitutional Court has declared with reference to this precept is the following - I quote textual words -: the regulation contained in article 52(d) of the Workers' Statute responds to the legitimate objective of protecting the productivity of the company. Let us not forget that, from the legal point of view, there is a right of freedom of enterprise, which recognizes article 38 of the Spanish Constitution, and entrusts to the public authorities the guarantee and protection of their exercise, as well as the defence of productivity, which is a constitutional good, so that it is clear that both sentences are compelling arguments to maintain that precept. Taking into account that Article 54 of the Workers' Statute provides for disciplinary dismissal and that Article 52(d) excludes a number of cases of disability - serious illness, accidents at work, pregnancy -, the amendment focuses on the possibility of extinguishing a contract of employment when repeated and constant lack of assistance occurs, for what we call common contingencies or for dealing with particular matters supposedly inexcusable. We will not enter into the fraud that often occurs when these reasons are invoked, because that is not the meaning of the law. We all know that fraud occurs, but for that there is already the disciplinary dismissal of Article 54 already cited. We are going to assume that when a worker misses his job in the circumstances described, in most cases he does so for objective reasons not attributable to his conduct and therefore does not incur any fault. Let us assume once again that no one should be punished for this, but one thing is guilt and the other thing is to know who has to deal with the damage caused by the suspension of their labour obligations, because it is evident that the lack of assistance generates damage; first, the company, whose productivity is undermined, and that is the main purpose of precept 52.d), as established by the Constitutional Court; secondly, it also harms the rest of the workers, who have to assume the workload that the absent partner ceases to carry out. Madam Minister, I think we should all understand that within the framework of the regulation of labour relations there must be a balance between the three parties: companies, workers and the unemployed, because everyone has their rights and the law must protect them all, because we must ensure that workers and their stability are protected. We are not questioning this stability at all insofar as we are defending what the Workers' Statute says for the past 40 years. Companies, especially SMEs, cooperatives and self-employed, whose productivity depends on their future and that of the other workers who are linked to them, must also be taken care of. This makes it perfectly clear that the authors of this amendment are people outside the business world, because they are perfectly ignorant of the serious problem of absenteeism in business terms, even on a day-to-day basis, when colleagues have to take on the work of those who are often absent, and let us not talk about chain work. We cannot forget those who want to enter the labour market, the more than three million unemployed who have not yet had the opportunity to find a job and who you never seem to worry about; among them there are so many people waiting for an opportunity, and perhaps others are not in a position to take advantage of it, because they cannot or do not want to. Meditate on it, minister. The jobs of hundreds of thousands of Spaniards will depend on this government leaving the demagogy behind and taking seriously the urgency of maintaining viable companies that are not mortgaged with burdens they cannot take on. Our employers and workers have shown that when they have adequate tools they are able to conserve and create jobs, and more intensely than any other country in Europe. Leave the demagogy behind. I'm just finishing up. Today is the day to expressly renounce any measure that diminishes our ability to create employment. Today is the day to encourage companies to use all the mechanisms to move forward, maintain employment in times of crisis and promote their early recovery and growth. Today is the day to maintain the interests of Spain and the Spanish, because the socialcommunist ideology will once again bring only unemployment, poverty and misery. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Catalina. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. If you'll allow me, I'll take the floor from the seat. Foro will not support the validation of this royal decree-law adopted on February 18th, that is, almost a month before the declaration of the state of alarm by the pandemic of the COVID-19, which in addition to bringing about a health emergency also entails a labor and social emergency that already requires the adoption of extraordinary economic measures to tackle the great recession in hinds. Mrs Díaz Pérez, the necessary consensus to develop such measures in defence of workers has to start with the government itself to avoid the terrible feeling arising from the eternal meeting at which the Council of Ministers approved the state of alarm and postponed several days the first package of economic and social measures that have to go far beyond those adopted so far. In any case, it is a derogation from Article 52(d) of the Workers' Statute that you have submitted, it remains in maneuver in front of the gallery and uncovers a double language, because the only change for those workers who are dismissed for repeated absences is that they would have to have a compensation of twenty days per year worked to calculate it for thirty-three days per year, with a maximum of two, in line with the jurisprudence, that is, the compensation is increased, but the dismissal is not avoided. Thus things, the recovery of rights to which you alluded is not such. This afternoon you re-edit your criticisms of the 2012 labour reform, which was extended - no one forgets - to stop the unusual labour sangria resulting from the crisis unleashed during the previous phase of the socialist government, but today the major labour priorities go through measures that anticipate the business and labour emergency scenario arising from the pandemic. We're looking forward to it. In defense of the worker today is a great news the recent agreement by which the ICO covers 80% of the new loans and renewals of loans to SMEs and self-employed, as demanded Forum. It is now up to the government to ensure that banks urgently start making available to businesses and self-sustaining the liquidity that ICO supports so that they can cope with the crisis that is already shaking them very hard. Looking forward, as you claimed, to the task, without demagoguery, Minister of Labour and Social Economy, and you will count on our support, but not so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u13	For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u14	Good afternoon. We have the privilege of the atril and the cameras that record us, and it is forced today to start talking about hope. Hope must be the central axis of the world that we are seeing change and that must be sustained. Barbarity is earned by putting the common good in the center; that hope has in writing the old proclamation of the common: omnia sunt communia. Since the UPC we have decided to attend this plenary because we understand that the actual decree-laws that are passed will determine the lives of thousands of people; and if it depends on life it is essential to be. Not like the thousands of workers who are forced to go to work in centers and sectors that are not fundamental to life: Ikea, Glovo, Amazon. Tell me if this is not a reality that responds to maintaining benefits rather than safeguarding life. Today we will share our interventions in three areas: labor, taking advantage of the real decree-law that we will adopt today, economy and state of alarm. Let us begin with the field of work within the framework of this royal decree which prohibits dismissals for long layoffs; it makes layoffs inappropriate, i.e. not all of them, but we are in favour of this measure. Even so, we understand that it is clear that bringing this here today is totally out of date and, in addition, it responds to a premise that we do not share: that the crisis of COVID-19 is temporary and that everything will return to normal. Nor will it return to normalcy and surely, if you continue in this line, it will leave us with a devastating social and economic reality. Minister, you said that we have complied with the workers and also talked about the right to health. Let us contradict them according to the measures they have taken these days. With regard to ERTO, how can large multinationals as well as the Barcelona or Inditex Football Club, as well as SMEs, be welcomed under the same conditions? This is an insult, Minister, to small and medium-sized enterprises. You have not banned dismissals and, according to data from the Idescat, in Catalonia, in one week, there are 250,000 more people on the unemployment list. The ILO announced that 25 million redundancies can be achieved if you do not change this direction; they are redundancies worldwide, but the Spanish State clearly contributes. On the other hand, he was talking about the first need to be cured and then to work. Have you not stopped the production of workstations that are not essential for life, and come here to tell us that first we have to be cured and then go to work? How is it understood, for example, that many works continue to work? They have not put forward any measures for SMEs to help save small businesses. Why don't they do credit without interest, without all these mechanisms that you have to have to access? Don't say no, because not all SMEs can access; it's like the quota of self-employed people, not all self-employed people can stop paying quota. Why don't you forgive the quotas to everyone? Finally, you have not repealed labour reform, nor in a pandemic situation do you repeal labour reform. Madam Minister, I would be grateful if you would attend to me - thank you - because I want to ask you two questions. How many lives are worth the billion-dollar profits of companies that refuse to close? How many lives are worth the CEO's or Labour Promotion opinions? How many lives are worth? Stop production that is not vital, remunerate care, convert industries to produce sanitary material; that does save lives and not the benefits of Amazon. Prohibit layoffs by COVID-19; support SMEs and self-employed, all and all. And please honor this government of progress, which is the workers who are putting up with this in the health care, in the food shops, at home, taking care of the sick and also hiding and changing channels so that the little ones are not afraid every time you take the military out on the televisions of most of the families of the Spanish State. And to them and to them, to the working class of our people and of the rest of the peoples of the State: to organize, to trade unionize, to prepare, but not to the unions that are supporting the employer, the CEO and the Promotion of Labour, and that are also giving support to the measures of this Government of Progress. That our flag does not understand States, but rather peoples and rights. We end up as we started: let it be all for all, omnia sunt communia; it is the only thing that will save our lives.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. For the Basque Parlamenario Group, Mr. Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like briefly to begin this, my first intervention in this session, with a memory and a recognition to all the people who are suffering in their flesh the pandemic of the coronavirus and, also, to those workers who are disabling themselves so that we can be here today and that all citizens can cope with this health crisis that we are experiencing in the best possible way. We discussed the validation of Royal Decree-Law 4/2020, repealing article 52(d) of the Workers' Statute, which, as has already been pointed out, considered as an objective cause of dismissal the lack of yet justified but intermittent work attendance, except for different cases of medical and non-medical layoffs, delinking them after the 2012 reform of the general rate of absenteeism in the company and adding before that reform of 2012, although at a minimum, a dose of proportionality to this form of dismissal for objective reasons. However, and despite the apparent hardness of the precept repealed by Royal Decree-Law 4/2020, its impact on labour relations during its existence was never significant due to the decisive review and mitigation of the case law to which it was subject, limitations and mitigations coming from both the Court of Justice of the European Union, the ECJ, and the State courts, and which, pursuant to Directive 2078, protected the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of disability, minimizing the specific applications of Article 52(d) of the Workers' Statute for the purpose of monitoring their adequacy with regard to the purpose of combating absenteeism and proportionality control, which prevented it from going beyond the purpose of combating absenteeism. However, this limited and mitigated incidence of the precept now repealed by the actual decree-law cited must not constitute an obstacle or demerit in order to articulate this ad hoc amendment in view of the social and media impact caused, so that our Basque Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the validation of this decree-law, without prejudice - we also announce - to vote also in favour of its processing as a draft law in order to be able to consider, where appropriate, as regards the problem of absenteeism some relationship, perhaps close to that in force in the consolidated text of the 1995 Workers' Statute, to which some other exclusions of justified absences, both medical and non-medical, could be incorporated, to which were contemplated until the day of the promulgation of the decree whose validation we now discuss. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Serve my first words of tribute to those killed by the COVID-19; many of them have died in the solitude of a hospital or isolated from their loved ones by confinement. Serve these words also in support of their family and friends because they could not say goodbye to them or watch them or bury them as they certainly deserved. We are with you, we make your pain our own and we want to accompany you in your suffering. Finally, serve my words as a commitment to the sick and their families. We will leave our skins to honor and learn from those who have gone, so that the infected will recover, so that those who have delivered you will not become infected and, in the end, to live up to what the Spanish people deserve. I recognize, ladies and gentlemen, that I find it very difficult in days like this to stick to an agenda when all we have around us is concern and uncertainty about the devastating effects of COVID-19. Ladies and gentlemen, today in this plenary we are going to vote on unthinkable decrees a few months ago; today some of us are going to give the yes or no button with gloves; today we are going to see the workers who make possible the development of this plenary by disinfecting with bleach; at the doors of this Chamber, just where the cameras are turned off, there are people with masks washing their hands with antiseptic gel. We are debating the confinement of millions of Spaniards in their homes for a month and we are not able to organize a plenary session in a telematic way. From Citizens we have tried until the last moment that this plenary session will not be held in person. We have told Mr Sánchez, we have asked Mrs Batet. Why should citizens comply with their share of the deal and not politicians? We have demonstrated with remote press conferences that we can, that we have technical means, but there has been a lack of political will. We ask companies and workers to work from their homes; however, we put ourselves at risk and, worst of all, we put hundreds of workers at risk who make it possible for this plenary to take place. It is not enough to rely on the fact that the Regulation obviously does not provide for the possibility of a global health pandemic. Nor could a Council of Telematic Ministers be held and held. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour today of incarnating the voice of the citizens' voters because I have accomplished a quarantine and have scrupulously followed the mandates of the health authorities, but we all know that people who have unfortunately been infected or quarantined have paraded through this Chamber, and we know that we are running incomprehensible risks. Spain is suffering one of the biggest blows in its recent history. The coronavirus is gnawing with our elders, with a whole generation of Spaniards who suffered a civil war and a post-war era, who suffered forty years of dictatorship and, even so, knew how to give themselves a hug and build a life in freedom. To them, who also had to endure whole families with their small pensions during the 2008 crisis, we owe it all to them. They are the most resilient generation in history. The Spaniards of the future will examine us for how we behave today with our parents and grandparents. I continue my intervention with a thank you to everyone who in your own way is working against the spread of the virus. These days we are seeing the worst face of this crisis, but also the best: a vast majority of Spaniards united as never before to defeat the virus. Thank you for staying at home despite being away from yours, thank you for tipping you off to help our elders, your neighbors. Thank you for continuing to have the strength to go out to the balconies to applaud our heroes. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a huge battle ahead of us, but we have the best weapons to give it: solidarity, resistance and a health that is the envy of the world. We can do it. The Spaniards are giving us the best mirror to look at. We have an exceptional example for all health workers, who literally play their lives to save others. Doctors, nurses, auxiliaries, psychologists, cellists, cleaning staff, ambulance drivers, a huge thank you for all of you; we will never thank you enough for everything you are doing, and I do not think of better inspiration or greater challenge than putting Spanish politics at the level of our health. Interestingly, in this royal decree that we are voting on, there is a change that affects our workers, also the health personnel or the people who are making it possible for us to hold this plenary today. This Royal Decree repeals in its sole point Article 52(d) of the Workers' Statute. It is true that the article considers as dismissal for objective reasons the accumulation of lack of attendance at work, even if justified, but, at the same time, and that is what you curiously forget to point out, the same precept establishes numerous exceptions, including many of those which you use to justify their repeal. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, whether it is a well-intentioned repeal or whether you really did not know what you wanted to repeal or are playing propaganda once again, and I explain myself. It was you who said that this article allowed justified dismissal for illness when it is said that it does not apply in case of accident at work or of illness or non-work accident with medical leave of more than twenty days or when the absence is due to cancer or serious illness. It was also you who said that it allowed for dismissal by maternity or by conciliatory, when the precept itself says that it does not apply in the case of pregnancy, maternity, breastfeeding, ailments related to them or the enjoyment of permits and leave related to the reconciliation of personal and family life. Ladies and gentlemen, you have played an interesting part in the confusion. We were told that if this article were repealed, dismissal would be prohibited in the event of, for example, maternity or paternity, and that is totally false. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a measure that in reality hardly goes beyond cosmetics. You have made a whole flag of what is still a mere patch. From Citizens we have always argued that our labour legislation needs reforms because those that have been implemented so far have been unable to correct the structural problems affecting our labour market. We will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree, although we will request that it be treated as a bill so that we can have the opportunity to discuss the real reforms that our labour legislation needs. We can and we know how to fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Catalina. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. I confess that when Vox's spokesman was finished he was tempted to join the applause of Mr Abascal and Mr Espinosa for clarity, because clarity is appreciated; he is grateful to know which side they are on and which side they are on. We heard him: company, company, company, and little worker, little worker, little worker. The Minister of Labour said the day before the adoption of this royal decree that article 52(d) will be repealed, so no one can be fired for having a sick leave. The VOX spokesman has used the turn to say that he is against one being fired by a sickly-justified discharge. Thank you so much for the clarity, thank you very much, we already know which side VOX is on. If there was any justification for this royal decree, I believe that with these words that the minister said at the time it is all very clear; that is, that you can fire a worker even if you have a justified discharge; because you are on leave you could fire. Do we realize the barbarity that was in force? Are we aware of the cruelty of what some - the PP - approved in the midst of the crisis, with millions of unemployed and with the fear of many workers losing that job? Are we aware of how many women workers have played their health for fear of losing their jobs? This atrocity has been in force for eight years and VOX was against it; it is enlightening. And above all we have had to endure those responsible for this reform by telling us the goodness of their labor reform and that expression they liked: the virtuous circle of their reform. It had to be the European courts that urged the Spanish Government to amend this legislation because they considered this case of dismissal discriminatory. We believe that this rule that we adopt today does not need to be explained, it does not need to be much more reasoned, because it falls by its own weight, because it is evident and especially because it is just. I end up with a question and I will be allowed to answer it myself: would this article have repealed the right-wing tripartite - People's Party, Citizens and VOX - if I were now ruling? I believe that the speech by the representative of VOX has been diaphanous: no, of course not. That's why it's not the same thing that rules, it's not the same thing. That's why Compromís voted no to the PP and Mariano Rajoy and that's why Compromís today will vote yes to the validation of this royal decree. And let me have one last thing. Taking advantage of the fact that there are two ministers and since they have to have a council this week, I will tell you that prison officials ask me to pay special attention to them because they are high-risk personnel and because they understand that they must be agents of authority at a time when the conflict in prisons is very great. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u21	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u22	Thank you, Madam President. When we talk about the health of workers, it is a matter of justice to remind all workers who are sick, who, despite everything, have to go to work and do so with fear of becoming infected or being infected, and especially the families of the victims. Today the priority is to save lives, but we also have to worry that when this health emergency passes the resulting economic and social crisis does not charge again behind the backs of the workers, and for that we have to act. The labor reforms carried out in 2010 by the PSOE and in 2012 by the People's Party were a severe blow to the working class, to which rights were taken away, and involved a process of precarious working conditions and impoverishment of important sectors of wage earners. Far from its theoretical objectives, labour reforms led to the destruction of employment, especially in the industrial sector, and new forms of exploitation of workers through such formulas as TTEs, special employment centres, self-employed fakes or the use of endless subcontracting chains. All of this led to instability, low wages and, ultimately, job poverty. In other words, having a job and a salary does not necessarily mean getting out of poverty. This is the legacy that the years of People's Party government have left us. But in addition, in a resource that seems to have no end, it took advantage of a process of more re-centralisation, because the reform strengthened the stateization of labour relations and a collective bargaining that was clearly weakened. Preventing or hindering collective bargaining in our country, in Galicia, also means weakening the pressure capacity of the Galician working class and thus negatively affecting the results and working conditions of our employees. That is why we consider it necessary and urgent to repeal labour reforms, all of them in their entirety, because keeping them in a context of industrial crisis such as the one in Galicia - which, unfortunately, will be accentuated by the health emergency situation - implies that we continue to live with job insecurity, instability, ERW, ERW and dismissals unilaterally. We see it absolutely necessary to repeal Article 52(d) because it concerns issues that are fundamental, such as workers' health. Unfortunately, we do not have a proposal here that will solve the working conditions, wages and therefore the lives of the working class of our country. We must move forward, so we really hope that this necessary measure will not remain in an image operation that takes time, slows down or ends up leaving behind what really needs to be done, what the Government must do, which is to repeal labour reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u24	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I begin with a memory of my colleague Jordi Salvador, a distinguished trade unionist, who would make this speech if he were not confined to Tarragona. I'll just be his voice today. If firing a sick person is a business abuse, that a government allows and swallows it for so long is simple and clearly an attack on the one recognized in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights right to work and health. Whether people are afraid in this country to take a job out of fear of a layoff or going to work directly sick is as common as wild. To all those - I include myself - who out of this we have or have had a working life has passed us. It is nothing extraordinary and we should not be ashamed of ourselves, but of those responsible for it. So today we can do nothing but support and congratulate ourselves on the elimination of this real sword of Damocles over the working class. But it's not enough. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and the United Nations We can, as you know, this is not by far the only existing abuse and social regression and to eliminate from the current labour legislation. We miss more courage, we miss in this royal decree the treatment of one of the abuses above all, we miss that they do not take advantage to directly repeal the labor reform, something to which they committed themselves in so many speeches and electoral programs, both of them. In fact, although the repeal of this article is symbolically important today, it is not necessary for a heartless entrepreneur to take advantage of it to dismiss a worker or a woman with a medical leave, he has enough to take advantage of the case study of labour reform. We therefore urge them to address their total repeal, especially now in the light of the future economic crisis, the daughter of the current health crisis. But if we have a problem with labour legislation in the service of employers' interests, we still have a bigger problem with a judiciary that on many occasions - on too many occasions - protects and legitimizes its abuses. It should be recalled that if a person can be dismissed while he or she is sick today, it is simply because there are court rulings that endorse him or her, court rulings that pre-empt the rights of money to the right of persons. It's nothing new, we've seen it in thousands, hundreds of thousands of evictions. A strong judiciary with the weak and weak with the strong. Ladies and gentlemen, we do nothing, we will not do anything until we change the judicial power. Finally, we do not consider, unlike other spokespersons, that this royal decree should be treated as a bill, there is nothing to discuss before the protection of the working class. There's nothing to discuss. In any event, if it does, we will call, in view of the urgent need, for the elimination of the most harmful aspects of labour reform. Ladies and gentlemen, some of you have dreamed and promised beautiful things in the squares, but above all you have dreamed and promised to be brave. Remember it now, because what made us get out then is even worse now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u26	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my support for the people affected by this terrible pandemic and their families. I thank all the working people in this country, especially the health workers, who are heroically fighting for the well-being of all of Spain in difficult conditions, for the pandemic and for the cuts and precariousness suffered for years by public health. Today we ask you to validate the royal decree-law that prevents a worker from being fired for objective reasons for failing to work because of illness. It is a small recognition, but it is a great act of justice with all those workers who are ensuring today that Spain continues to function: food, safety, farmers, transporters, cleaning, frontline workers fighting the virus just for a minimum wage and with poor working conditions, given this article 52.d) of the statute that we are now going to repeal. In the midst of the coronavirus pandemic there are tens of thousands of people in our country who are sick and millions of people in quarantine locked up in their homes without being able to go to work. The rule that we now repeal would have allowed the two months after the start of the state of alarm hundreds of thousands of these workers to whom we thank so much today could be dismissed with miserable compensation. Nine days left to work within two months for suffering a disease was for the People's Party and for Convergence i Unió - not to be forgotten in Catalonia - cause enough to fire a person. A 19th-century norm that was contrary to public health, which, in order to avoid dismissal, forced sick people to go to work, even at risk of spreading contagion; a norm that punished women, who mostly bore the burden of care: more than four hours a day carrying out family care, three times more than men. We can no longer allow the feminization of the most precarious jobs or the precariousness of feminized jobs such as cleaning, 'kellys' or household workers, clearly strategic sectors. And we encourage the Ministries of Equality and Labour to quickly launch the aid announced today for women domestic workers who have lost or seen their jobs reduced by the pandemic. Above all, it is women who work in unpaid care: it is our mothers, sisters, compañeras, wives, to whom today we thank for their care to the elderly, especially to the workers of the elderly residences, who try to protect them from the coronavirus despite not having the necessary preventive measures and collecting salaries of misery. No one knew, by adopting the rule that we will repeal today, that these precarious women are the ones who suffer most from occupational diseases and, therefore, the ones most exposed to this dismissal. This rule was also an attack on the poorest, most vulnerable workers. Eighty-five per cent of those served last year by the Red Cross were poor workers with poor health, 12 per cent did not adequately care for their disease due to lack of resources and 70 per cent went to the doctor only in extreme cases. Precarity and poverty cause fear of losing work and income, not being able to pay bills or rent, or not being able to feed your children. The repealed rule only served to reduce the dismissal of the poorest workers. Today this Congress, representative of popular sovereignty, on the initiative of this progressive government, begins with this repeal the end of an era of profound attacks on the health of workers and of the whole citizenry, a time when labor reforms amputated the right to work and that today, in the midst of the pandemic, we see that they were unjust, catastrophic measures. In the words of the judge of the Constitutional Court Mrs. María Luisa Balaguer: I cannot assume that freedom of enterprise can be put before the right to the physical or moral integrity of workers and to such a fundamental value as human health. Budget cuts and labour rights have been a serious pathogen in Spain and have had terrible consequences: for lack of investment and privatization in the health system; for the expulsion of vulnerable people from the health system, as VOX proposed yesterday; for the staff cuts, the deterioration of working conditions and precariousness; and for the constant reduction of investments in research. The Spanish health network is the competence of the autonomous communities, some now hidden behind unfaithful attacks on the single health command, unable to recognize their own mistakes. The same governments responsible for the cuts are now hiding behind the efforts and commitment of health professionals and require the single command to have a forecast that they have not had. The best tribute to professionals is to give them the resources to never again find themselves in this situation, and preventing sick people from going to work is one of these resources. The right, through successive labour reforms that have made working conditions precarious and reduced wages, has created an army of poor workers who do not reach the end of the month even though they have jobs. This has led to increased insecurity and job insecurity. Precarization has an impact on people's health and we are in addition to what the Minister of Labour has said. We announce our vote in favour and thank you for your work and that of the Government, taking effective steps to ensure that Spain takes due care of the workers. I'm done. We encourage the Government to take further steps to put an end to labour reforms. We are going to experience the most difficult moments of the last decades, in a health crisis that can bring serious labour, social and economic consequences, unless we take measures like this to avoid it. United we can defeat the virus and get ahead; together. Thanks to our healthcare professionals. Thank you, Mrs Díaz, for this derogation, and to all Spain health, today more than ever, much health. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Santiago. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Catalina. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Movellán Lombilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u28	Thank you very much, President. Spain is now experiencing a health emergency that is not only putting our health system on a standstill, but is causing our economic activity and our labour market to be already seriously affected. The predictions we get to know every day tell us about a very dramatic near horizon. We are already seeing thousands of workers affected by ERTE, reductions in hours and wages, redundancies, as well as an unprecedented collapse of our production. I want to begin by recognizing the efforts of all the institutions and citizens who are fighting this crisis, but at the same time I want to ask this government to be rigorous, that no one take advantage of telling us intentional inaccuracies while we win this battle, because, despite its softened tone, which has then broken the spokesman of its political formation, what they are telling us today is an intentional inaccuracy. This error is that article 52, which was repealed by the Royal Decree, was approved by the 2012 labour reform because it was not. Please note that I do not use the word lies, and I am also telling you that our group is not going to oppose the validation of the decree, but it is that this article has been with us in the Workers' Statute since 1980, that is, forty years, and neither did the People's Party put it there nor removed it from there Felipe González nor Zapatero, nor his admired Pedro Sánchez, when they could have done it during these forty years. And we have been listening to them for weeks, although today it has softened the tone, that the People's Party has invented an article to fire sick people, with how easy it is to use the text and check it. But we are not going to play his game, not for lack of arguments but for respect; for respect to all the Spaniards who are sick today and to all those who are at risk of being sick, and for respect for the current situation that makes us not to come here to talk about banalities. The situation is really serious and that is why I ask you to keep the silence that those who are suffering deserve and to get to work. Get to work to ensure the purchase and supply of all the sanitary materials that our professionals require today, work also to wear masks and robes to hospitals, because those you are not bringing are sewing the Spaniards in your homes. These days they are talking about sickness, but they have not agreed to say that what the reform of the People's Party did was to give greater guarantees to the workers. What did do the 2012 amendment was to establish that those caused by medical treatments for cancer or serious diseases would not be counted as absences. That was done by the People's Party; what it did not do is this article that they bring today for repeal. In addition, it has come to tell us that the cases had been shot with the 2012 reform, but the employer has fixed in 2019 that there were thirty cases and dismissals for this article that is now repealed. You have been unable to give a single data, but I also have to tell you that we were very surprised that in February your first and only star measure - we like you to recognize it today - for the job was this. You came to the ministry when that coalition government was formed with the Socialist Party, but do you think you have fulfilled, as you have told us here, with the citizens? Do you think you have met the more than 90,000 unemployed who were there when you came to the government, thanks to the mismanagement of the Pedro Sánchez government? Do you think you have met the 30 000 most unemployed women, the 14 000 unemployed young people who were more or the 50 000 most unemployed rural workers or domestic workers? Is that your vision of fulfilling the Spanish? Don't worry because these data are going to be forgotten because today the scenario is much more serious, and it is much more serious because of the lack of forecasting and ambitious measures to deal with this crisis, this health and economic emergency. Now we are dealing with this terrible crisis of the COVID-19, which is already hitting, as I said, our labour market strongly. Thousands of employment regulation files are collapsing the public employment service, too many workers who have lost or seen their employment contract suspended. The SMEs and the self-employed are drowned and stifled by the lack of income, by the lack of liquidity and also by the uncertainty and because you do not want to guarantee something that you are demanding, such as the suspension of quotas or the postponement and suspension of social contributions, the real postponement of taxes. And they've blown all the alarms. The situation requires much more ambitious measures to prevent this health drama from becoming a brutal economic crisis; measures to prevent the destruction of our productive fabric and hundreds of thousands of jobs in our country, which would lead to a real social emergency. Madam Minister, you must be reminded that you are the Minister of Labour, not the Minister of Unemployment, and that is why we ask you from here that your policy is not merely derogatory. Repealing labour reform is repealing job maintenance and making future job creation in our country more difficult. We must remember the context in which we were at the time of the 2012 reform and all the jobs that had been destroyed in the years of crisis, in those years when a socialist government first denied the crisis, and then was unable to take steps to tackle the economic crisis. The balance sheet was desolating: more than three and a half million Spaniards went to unemployment, 177 000 companies were destroyed and more than 336 000 self-employed had to close their businesses. But we turned it around, we turned 180 degrees thanks to measures and labor reform, and where 1,400 jobs were destroyed in 2011, more than 1,700 jobs were created a day in 2017. But it did not happen by chance, but by a job well done, by clear objectives and by a work reform that works. You know it works because now it is more necessary than ever to continue to apply those criteria that inspired labour reform, that internal flexibility of companies that avoids the dismissal of the majority of workers. The measures to be validated today are also supported by the same flexibility criteria that the 2012 reform launched. That is why I say to you that you abandon that derogatory policy, that you abandon your counter-reform work and that you also abandon that confiscation tax policy, because that can only make the effects after this health emergency very serious for the labour market and for our economy. Give solutions to all those who have seen their employment situation disrupted these days. I want to conclude by saying that we are living in an exceptional situation that threatens two generations of Spaniards. The threat to the generation of our elders is being fought by the health workers and the staff of the unit and they are giving an admirable lesson in responsibility from which we have much to learn. But it is up to you, gentlemen of the Government, to combat the threat to employment, to the future expectations of the Spanish families and young people, and in that task you can count on the People's Party, because we are a party that has shown that it always puts the interest of the citizens before the party's interest.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u29	Mr. Movellan, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u30	Yes, I'm done, Madam President. But there is a greater good at stake, Minister; and I, as a member of a state party, tell you, because your government partners don't tell you alike. That greater good is called Spain and is looking. He's waiting for us to get fear and disease out of their homes together. He is waiting for us, when we open our doors and go out to our streets, to see this great nation full of opportunities, because it is the best country to live and work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Movellán. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Anguita Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, minister, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would like to begin my first speech in this Chamber by thanking each and every one of the compatriots who continue to raise this country today with their efforts, dedication and commitment. I want to thank our health personnel, our State Security Forces and Corpses, our Armed Forces, the cleaning teams, our workers and social workers, our transport sector - which, being the son of a transporter, makes me especially proud - to each and every one of the people who are fighting today, each from their own sector, this terrible pandemic and making all of us and ourselves extremely proud to be part of this society. We are currently experiencing an unprecedented health crisis that is testing each and every one of our institutions, each and every one of our governments and each and every one of us and ourselves as a society. It will depend on all of us and on all of us how to get out of this crisis, because, to get out, ladies and gentlemen, we will get out, that there is no doubt about it. Ladies and gentlemen, the future of the nation, of this nation, has never been written and, of course, will not be written after this epidemic. When we open our doors again, when we go back to work normally, when we go back out, move naturally and visit our family regularly, when all this happens, nothing will be the same, everything will have changed. If I am certain of anything, the people of this country are much clearer about the importance of the public, which is the best shield a society can have to face the challenges we face as a country. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the validation of Royal Decree-Law 4/2020 of 18 February, repealing the objective dismissal for lack of labour assistance provided for in Article 52(d) of the consolidated text of the Workers' Statute Act. It will do so for a simple reason: this royal decree gives back to working people guarantees taken away by the labour reform of the People's Party in the face of dismissal. Ladies and gentlemen, let's be clear. The abrogated dismissal was not justified. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pride to be able to intervene today in defence of this decree-law, as it is urgent to restore the rights of the working class. It is urgent to restore the legal certainty snatched by the reform that boosted the balance in the employment relationship; that allowed the substantial modification of working conditions practically unilaterally by the employer, broken and collective bargaining, and that also facilitated that the workers could be dismissed indiscriminately for lack of assistance, even though these are justified. A cause of dismissal that will repeal this royal decree that we are debating today. Ladies and gentlemen, with this royal decree the Government continues to dismantle the most damaging aspects of the labour reform of the People's Party, despite the fact that it weighs heavily. A reform whose result - unfortunately contrasted - is the loss of workers' rights. A loss of rights that is mainly the result of the loss of wages, the only formula that the People's Party understood to gain in competitiveness and that has led to the emergence of a new social class, the poor workers. The socialist government increased the interprofessional minimum wage to 900 euros, an increase of 22.3%, the largest increase in the history of our democracy. Today the interprofessional minimum wage is 950 euros. By the way, increases that have been made prior to social dialogue, something unknown by the governments of the People's Party. An increase that according to the economic gurus of the right was little less than to boost the national economic structure and that far from such a omen has only brought dignity and security to millions of Spanish households. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law restores safety to the working person who, suffering from illness or disability, was forced to fail intermittently to work even with justification. Those absences that did not depend on his will - I repeat: that did not depend on his will - constituted the cause of dismissal regardless of whether they were just cause. The dismissal took place automatically, an automatism provoked by the reform of the People's Party that deprived it of the elements that gave it objectivity, such as the index of total absenteeism of the staff. If the excuse of the right was to combat absenteeism, absenteeism is already constituting disciplinary dismissal, so there is no lack of protection of the business interest in any way. Ladies and gentlemen, this article made this business interest prevail in defending its captivity in the face of an objective and proportionate cause of dismissal. This, as I said, called into question a principle of our work order: dismissal is always due to cause. Otherwise it would violate the Community framework, and more specifically the Convention 158 of the International Labour Organization, ratified by Spain in 1985 and thus incorporated in our legal system, in accordance with article 96.1 of our Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, this article only creates legal uncertainty, as it brings nothing but fear, demotivation and a decline in productivity among working people. Look, in less than a hundred days this government is fulfilling its commitment to repealing the most harmful aspects of labour reform; the repeal that we are debating today is only the beginning of that process. The right will say that this reform is going to end the economic recovery that that same right has wanted to appropriate as its own by stealing it from the efforts and suffering of the working people, of the humblest people in this country. They shall hide the fact that this derogation is made for three main reasons. Firstly, because it generated legal uncertainty, since it was an abnormal legal figure corrected over the years precisely to exclude absences that could lead to dismissal incompatible with the basic rights of workers, such as work accidents, maternity leave, holidays or exclusions from gender-based violence; something totally incomprehensible. Secondly, because it is contrary to Community law, as established by the Court of Justice of the European Union in its judgment of 18 January 2018, which states that the automatic application of Article 52(d) without the existence of mechanisms designed to counter and assess the concrete situation of dismissal and to analyse it on a case-by-case basis for the purpose of determining its proportionality is incompatible with Council Directive 2000/78. And finally, because it is discriminatory, because it makes the most vulnerable people worse when they are sick, something we can agree, ladies and gentlemen, it does not seek anyone intentionally not to go to work. This discrimination is particularly harsh with persons with disabilities or with people with chronic basic diseases, who are more likely to have more short-term medical discharges, precisely as a result of these pathologies - and I am finishing, Madam President -. In addition, it constitutes discrimination on the basis of gender, since it is women who essentially assume the work of caring for dependent persons and because of it may incur a greater number of short-term absences from work. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. In these days, if there is something important that we are checking is that health was, is and will always be the most important. Solidarity, fraternity, equity and equality; we have the opportunity once again from this House to do social justice again, being, from my humble point of view, the only just path and the only path that will never return. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Anguita. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u34	Thank you, President. On behalf of the Government, we collect each and every one of the contributions of the spokespersons and the?speakers' and thank them. We will continue to work for the common good. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 5/2020, OF 25 FEBRUARY, DETERMINING EMERGENCY MEASURES ON AGRICULTURE AND FOOD. [[File number 130/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u36	We turn to the agenda item on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 5/2020 of 25 February, adopting certain urgent measures in the field of agriculture and food. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Allow me at the beginning of my speech to make my own statements at the beginning of this session of friendship and solidarity addressed to the families and friends of all those who died from this pandemic and to all those who are suffering it. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this House to ask on behalf of the Government for the validation of Royal Decree-Law 5/2020, adopting certain urgent measures in the field of agriculture and food, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 25 February. It is a necessary and indefatigable royal decree-law for the agri-food sector of our country and, in particular, for our farmers and livestock farmers. In addition, the conditions of extraordinary and urgent need established by our Constitution to adopt this legal norm with the status of law are at stake. Madam President, before setting out its contents, I would like to reflect on and acknowledge it. I'm starting with reflection. Farmers, farmers and fishermen are producing and placing on the market fresh products that enable the supply of industry and distribution and, consequently, the food of all. In recent weeks I have repeatedly explained how important your work is to society as a whole. In a dramatic and extreme circumstance like the one we are living in, his work is even more valued. We need them, also the workers of the cooperative companies and the agri-food industry. Its effort is also enabling the chain to function smoothly and that basic food can reach everyone. Finally, I would like to mention who is closest to all of us on a day-to-day basis, the commercial distribution, the shops and supermarkets that supply us and all those who provide services in them. The role that commercial distribution, businesses and workers are playing is crucial for all food products to reach all citizens, not forgetting logistics and supply companies, without which the chain could not function. I would therefore like to make a public recognition on behalf of the Government of Spain on the good work of all those who serve in the agri-food chain. Today, more than an effort, it is a sign of surrender and solidarity, and this allows us to be supplied every day in sufficient quantity and quality with practical normality, despite the exceptional circumstances that we are experiencing. Again, thank you. In this context, the rebalancing of the food chain, its transparency in the formation of prices and the improvement of the negotiating position of farmers and farmers in the search for fairer prices is all the more justified and necessary. Indeed, in recent months a number of factors have converged, some of them of a cyclical and others of a structural nature, dragged away from good times ago, which have led to a crisis situation in the prices perceived by our farmers and farmers in their sales and, consequently, in the decline of their business margins. This has prompted the prompt response of this Government, which has taken concrete action urgently in response to the demands of the sector and the agricultural professional organizations that represent them. A sector which is in itself structurally vulnerable by its own characteristics, by the high rigidity of demand, by the atomisation of operators and the diversity of its agents against a much more concentrated purchase, as well as by seasonality and, in many cases, by the perishable nature of their productions. To all these singularities, ladies and gentlemen, we must add the concurrence of short-term factors, concrete situations and events which have suffered and suffered from our farmers and farmers, which have been affected by extreme weather phenomena which have caused considerable damage, in the form of storms or floods, and also by measures taken for reasons which have nothing to do with the agri-food sector, such as the tariffs adopted by the United States, the fall in prices or the increase in the costs of agricultural inputs. These situations require decisive action by the Government of Spain and the adoption of solutions that cannot be delayed for another day because of the damage that this could cause. We have heard, discussed and acted without delay, following that process of dialogue with all actors in the food chain and with the autonomous communities, with a real decree-law that aims to achieve a positive and necessary impact by promoting equitable sharing of value added and the rebalancing of the food chain, improving the negotiating capacity of the weakest links in the chain and strengthening the competitiveness of agricultural and food operators. For this reason, the royal decree-law that I present to you contains a series of measures that, succinctly, I begin to report. First, Act No. 12/2013 on measures to improve the food chain is amended. This implies, from the date of entry into force and its publication on 26 February last, the obligation to include the actual cost of production in agricultural contracts, which expressly states that the agreed price covers the actual cost of production. Secondly, it is proposed to prohibit the destruction of the value of products along the chain, which is popularly referred to as loss-making. That is to say, to oblige each operator to pay the immediately preceding one in the chain a price equal to or higher than the cost of production of the product in which that operator has incurred or assumed. Thirdly, it is proposed to regulate commercial promotions to avoid the trivialization of agricultural products and food, ensuring that society is aware of its true value, and requiring that promotional activities be deployed within an equitable framework of obligations and rights within the chain. Fourthly, it is intended to publicise the penalties imposed on non-compliance and to tighten the sanctioning regime, such as, for example, that failure to formalise food contracts in writing becomes a serious breach rather than a minor one as it has been so far. This regulation, ladies and gentlemen, will be supplemented in an imminent manner by a second amendment of the law of the wider chain, with a draft law transposing Directive 633/2019 of unfair commercial practices and introducing new measures to improve the functioning of the food chain. The incorporation of young people into agricultural activity is one of the essential lines of the policy of renewal of the primary sector and one of the axes on which the new common agricultural policy will be articulated, and to this end the field must be attractive to young people, but above all it must be profitable. That is the key to the future of agriculture, livestock and our rural world. It is therefore proposed in this Decree-Law to amend Article 2 of Law 35/2006 on the income tax of natural persons to incorporate a measure to facilitate the four-year assessment of the tax on the first installation of young farmers provided for in the National Rural Development Programme, so that they do not have to do so once in the first year, including the partners of the associations. The decree-law also regulates the reduction from 35 to 20 of the number of peonadas necessary to access the unemployment benefit or agricultural income in the Autonomous Communities of Andalusia and Extremadura. The last marketing year saw a decline in olive production due to climatic circumstances, which, together with the difficulties caused by the tariffs I mentioned earlier, has had an impact on a decrease in the employment of potential agricultural workers in these two autonomous communities. Similarly, in order to encourage undertakings to convert any agricultural contracts into fixed and fixed discontinuous contracts, bonuses shall be granted in the business share according to the form and amount of the base and the contribution group in which the worker is discharged during the two years following the conversion of the contract. Finally, the Decree-Law provides for the amendment of Law 23/2015, the computer of the system of labour inspection and social security, in order to extend the scope of the inspection beyond the workplace, i.e. that its performance can also be carried out in premises and dwellings or other authorized places where workers reside, stay or remain. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. This state of alarm in Spain is somehow a useful parenthesis for reflection from which lessons can be drawn, and one of the clearest is that we need our farmers and livestock farmers. Also our fishermen, who are always there, doing their job well. I therefore ask you to vote for the validation of this royal decree-law, which is part of a task and commitment of this government that will continue throughout the legislature to improve the functioning of our primary sector, allow the survival of a living rural environment and recognize and dignify the work of our farmers and livestock farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u38	Thank you very much, Minister. In the course of the fixing of positions, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. I will support the validation of this royal decree-law, which is the response to the great mobilizations of an entire sector vital to our well-being and priority, even more so if it is at this time of national and global emergency as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. In my brief speech, I would like to refer specifically to the great difficulties that have been added now, after the coronavirus, for our primary producers, as they will need new and extraordinary support measures following the coming crisis, since this regulation was adopted a month and a half ago and will need to be re-adapted to the exceptional situation resulting from the health emergency. It is essential, in the case of the livestock sector, of crucial importance for the economic support of the rural environment of Asturias and Spain, that the outstanding CAP subsidies be advanced and that the administrative bureaucracy that strengthens sales be made more flexible, avoiding the paralysis of products such as milk and meat, among others. Finally, we call on the government to assert in the European Union the need for a new multiannual financial framework that does not cut aid to the sector, as envisaged. Farmers, fishermen and farmers are key parts in an irrevocable 21st century solidarity economic Europlan to curb the coming recession. You pick up that glove all over the sector and, above all, anticipate the worst scenario for the Spanish countryside and rural environment, which was mobilized precisely because it did not feel supported. In this sense, with this royal decree-law you are ascribed, on behalf of the Government, a prompt response to the situation in the Spanish countryside - I think you have said without delay -; let me remind you that you have been as Minister of Agriculture for a year and a half. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mr Gimeno has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u41	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the state has for a long time been regulating the food chain and its impact on agricultural markets with urgent measures. Note the contrast between 'from a long time ago' and 'emergency measures'. In other words, the rules themselves tell us that they are late to intervene in a very complex sector such as the agricultural sector. However, it is true that the successive rules, as is now the case with this royal decree-law, have tried to meet the growing social demands of farmers through measures that set conditions in markets of origin to the consumer and in different contracts of agricultural and livestock products. During this crisis that we are experiencing we have been able to see that - as you have said - despite this important regulatory omission for its activity, the agricultural sector plays a fundamental social and economic role in the Spanish territory. It is a basic sector for the economy, as it is an indispensable part for the food of the whole country, as highlighted by the situation we live in, but, moreover, it is an economic activity that is not mobile: any aid you receive is going to stay here, it is not going to go anywhere else. Farmers are a social group with a deep commitment to collaborate unselfishly in emergency situations: they have done so in the snow, with the spraying now of public roads, with emergencies, in the fight against fire and we have seen it in these past few weeks. We value the proposals of this Royal Decree 5/2020, which aims to clarify the successive markets that, through food contracts, are integrated into the value chain, avoiding that the actual cost of production is not covered, as very well says article 12 of the decree on the destruction of value in chain. The explanatory statement of the royal decree speaks of specific regulatory measures in the field of the food chain, anticipating a future in-depth reform, which is planned to be undertaken later, of Law 12/2013, of measures for the improvement of the food chain. We agree with that assessment. What is important and necessary is an in-depth reform of Law 12/2013. Perhaps the present royal decree could have gone further in some of the aspects that we are going to point out; however, despite these limitations, we will support its validation, because we believe that it represents a step forward on the previous situation and that it facilitates the viability of agricultural enterprises. Despite what we say, we believe that the measures of the Royal Decree will not be sufficient to guarantee the objectives of the Code of Good Practice in Food Procurement for many reasons. There are three of them that we believe should be incorporated: first, the code of good practice itself - which would strengthen its applicability - should be strengthened by measures that make their implementation easy, because there are difficulties in practical and real implementation; secondly, specific measures should be taken to ensure the transparency of those food chain business practices and of the requirements laid down by commercial contracts; and thirdly, it is important that the whole marketing process be made accessible and synthetic to consumers and that it is not now left in the darkness of an unknown chain. The introduction of transparency criteria in all successive chain trade agreements and the application of rapid and efficient information mechanisms should enable the consumer to identify the commercial traceability of the product he acquires and to define it. This royal decree can also anticipate specific measures for the future reform of Law 12/2013. For us, the main thing is to strengthen information about the origin of the products, defining their characteristics and the conditions of their production. In order for consumers to be able to choose, they should establish categories to be reflected in the Code of Business Practices. We believe that it is very important to differentiate between national products, European products which comply with European rules, non-European products which comply with European rules on fertilisers, feed, plant protection products, animal health products and, finally, products which are not controlled but which are on the market. This royal decree should apply the conditions to products in accordance with the production system and also to distance and transport. It could clearly differentiate between local product - 100 kilometers from the market -, proximity product - between 100 and 250-, medium distance product - between 250 and 700-; it could also differentiate the transport that has suffered the product or the environmental impact that that transport has had, so that the labelling collects its information in a synthetic and graphical way. We believe that national products are not competing on equal terms with those imported. There is no competition on equal terms because here there are labour guarantees that are not available in third countries of which it is imported; there is no competition on equal terms, because here there are products that are banned while in other countries are being used; there is no competition on equal costs: inputs are higher here than in third countries, both in fertilizers and in feed and in plant protection products. It is necessary to ensure that products imported into the European Union meet the same quality, safety and rights requirements as those required in production within the European Union. The Royal Decree should include some urgent action against fraud in labelling to remedy the lack of information for consumers in the shops. On the other hand, we want to say that it is very difficult for all producers to have contracts for all agricultural products. As you know, a very common practice is the sale in long, and in long the price is fixed at the time of the purchase - usually the supplier operates at a percentage of that sale -, with which it is very difficult to be collected in a contract. It is also difficult to determine what the reference production cost is, because it is not the same for a farmer who manages 6 hectares as for a 400-hectare farm; it is not the same for a warehouse that handles 4 million kilos as for a warehouse that handles 100 million kilos. We suggest that these numerals be introduced through a segmentation of the criteria of both the producer's and the warehouseman's size and the quality of the product. In short, for us the royal decree should adopt an urgent measure on transparency and information. A product classification must be created that allows the consumer, when in the supermarket, to quickly identify whether the product is national, if it is in compliance with European rules, which is very easy to establish with colour stamps that graphically identify the origin and quality of the product, as has often been proposed: green stamp for national products, blue stamp for the European Union, orange stamp for products outside the European Union but which comply with its rules and without seals those which are not classified. There is another additional issue, also with regard to the third article, as regards the reduction of the minimum number of actual days. We propose that there be a system, a sort of bag of hours, where the hours of more worked in a few days are compensated for the days that are not worked, and at the end of the campaign an equivalence is made between the hours worked in that bag...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u42	Mr. Guitar, I'd have to finish please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u43	Yeah, I'm done. Thank you. We believe that it is urgent to transpose existing European legislation into the Spanish legal system, in particular Directive 2019/633 of the European Parliament on unfair commercial practices in relations between undertakings in the agricultural-food supply chain, which affects aspects of this regulation, is intended to act. We should do so without running out of time, which is November 1, 2021. However, since these aspects are important, there are other structural aspects which affect us and which are of much greater significance for the province of Teruel, such as, for example, the difference in the application of the CAP compensations between the Turkish farmers and the rest of the neighbouring provinces, which sometimes amounts to double or half the compensation for aid. As long as this structural issue is not resolved, these other measures will have very little impact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u45	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing the validation of Royal Decree-Law 5/2020, of urgent measures in the field of agriculture and food, which anticipates, as has already been pointed out, an in-depth reform of Law 12/2013, of measures for the improvement of the food chain, in order to incorporate, as has also been said, aspects contained in the directive of unfair commercial practices in the agricultural and food supply chain. On the other hand, it is well known that the context in which the decree-law is involved is a very complicated context, with a fall in agricultural prices - at best its maintenance - and a correlative increase in production costs; with a low attractiveness of the sector vis-à-vis other economic sectors; with problems of infrastructure and services in the rural environment; with a reduced generational relief, with the consequent loss of agricultural assets; with an increase in climate risks; with limited bargaining power of the productive sector within the value chain; with an improved sectoral structure; with sometimes unfair commercial practices, and, among other uncertainties, at the threshold of a new CAP and the allocation of Community funds. In the face of this growing landscape of unrest in the sector, the decree-law is structured into eight blocks, which we consider, however, will have a limited impact by addressing the crisis of farms and the transition to greener agriculture in a timid budget. We also believe that the Decree-Law will have a limited impact because it will not give a full response to sectoral demands such as, among other things, the full transposition - as has also been said here - at the earliest possible date of the Community directive on unfair commercial practices. All these limited impacts of the decree-law may be the cause of having had to create from the ministry itself different work tables on, among other subjects, insurance, taxation, energy costs and employment, trade agreements, etc. Notwithstanding the above, we also consider that the measures adopted by the Decree-Law represent a necessary step, although, as we said, they are insufficient to solve some of the problems facing them. That is why we will vote in favour of its validation, without prejudice to voting also on its processing as a bill to improve different areas in which, in our view, it does not respond to the needs - at least to the same extent - of all the sectors, territories and administrations concerned. Thus, to quote some, I will highlight the difficulty - as the spokesman who preceded me has also pointed out in the rostrum - to establish the costs of production by the factors that are incorporated, that they will not always cover the actual costs of production and that they will also drag along the entire value chain, a circumstance that is aggravated for many of the farms, such as those of Euskadi, in attention to their nature and the typology of their productions, differentiated of quality and limited, and also in attention to the limited implementation of contracts in the Basque Country due to the channels of sale employed. In another matter, ladies and gentlemen, we would also like to highlight the concern of the Basque Parliamentary Group about the follow-up, monitoring, inspection and sanctioning activities, which we believe should be exercised by the Basque administration and the autonomous ones in general, after the establishment of reasonable points of connection and without prejudice to the necessary framework of collaboration with the ministry. Finally, I should like to conclude, Madam President, by expressing our great concern at the negative impact that the initial proposal on the CAP would have on the sector, at the reduction of funds in both the first and second pillars, given that Community aid can currently account for 20% of the average income of farmers. As far as the state level is concerned and for the period to which we refer, 2021-2027, we also call for the maintenance of the funds currently received by the various autonomous communities, as well as the possibility of applying the subsidiary approach so that Euskadi - and other communities, if they consider it - can draw up their own CAP strategic plans. Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u47	Thank you, President. You guys are tired of seeing me here today, but I'm not gonna get tired of thanking you. I begin my intervention, as it could not be otherwise, thanking fishermen, farmers, farmers and workers in the Spanish countryside for the incredible effort they are making these days. You are not only a fundamental pillar that makes it possible to supply supermarkets, municipal markets and food stores, but also your generosity, by giving up your tools and equipment to fight in this battle, is the best part that Spanish society is showing to help us all. We need and deserve to talk in this plenary about how our fishermen, farmers and farmers are facing the health crisis. From Citizens we want the measures to alleviate the effects of this virus on our primary sector to be truly ambitious, not to leave behind those who are early every day to supply our supermarkets and our homes at a historic time. Inés Arrimadas sent a document to the Government of Spain with the same willingness of collaboration and hand-in-hand that we have maintained since the first day; a document with sensible and realistic measures for our primary sector, which we will have to work from Spain, but also from Europe, so that this crisis is a parenthesis and not a point and end to its activity. From Citizens we propose for our workers in the countryside and the sea a series of measures such as safety protocols and strengthened health protection; aids to those self-employed who, despite continuing to work, see their income shrunk by the closure of bars, restaurants and hotels; campaigns to combat misinformation and support Spanish products or to extend deadlines to apply for Community aid. Let us not stand idly by, minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish agricultural sector has been in a critical situation for a long time. To the traditional lack of profitability of many projects is added the growing promotion of depopulation. Throughout Spain there have been demonstrations denouncing this situation and calling for an adequate profitability for agricultural and livestock products. It is also claimed that the announced reform of aid under the common agricultural policy, which for many farms accounts for an average of 25% of its income, should maintain sufficient resources in comparison with the cuts announced by Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen, our farmers are the weakest link in the food chain. We need to help them maintain the balance, and that balance starts by giving them the opportunity to transform themselves as a sector and adapt to the new realities. Thus, while other elements, such as distributors, have undergone many transformations and an improvement in their competitiveness, there has been a lack of public policies that favour innovation to improve both the work and the position of strength in a negotiation of our farmers. At this point I also thank the distributors, transporters and drivers for all the work they are doing to sustain our life system during these hard days. The reality of our primary sector is strongly conditioned by what can be legislated at European level. We must rely on this tool and turn ourselves as a country to make it strong, not only as a livelihood mechanism, but as a vehicle for transformation of the primary sector. It is precisely for this reason that this issue cannot be addressed only at national level. You yourselves have been aware that there are limitations when you have drawn up this decree that we are debating today. For example, the regulation of loss sales is bounded by the Community framework, especially after the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in 2017, which made it clear that not only can a general ban on loss sales be imposed when unfair or persistent competition is demonstrated. Minister: modernization, strengthening its negotiating capacity and combating depopulation so that there are more opportunities in the rural world. These are Citizens' priorities for the sector; sensible, realistic measures that are truly a future investment for our farmers. We are talking about quality and food security - one of the demands of Spanish farmers is to be able to compete on equal terms with other producers - and on balance - from here we demand that the government stop facing the elements of the food chain and ensure that no party will impose an overprice on the products and that it will facilitate the sale of agricultural and livestock products - and also the fight against depopulation. In short, we would like the Government to abandon populism and inflammatory statements. We must work to boost our farmers and ensure balance in the food chain without confrontations that only end up having a negative impact. I recognize that the measures of Citizens are measures far removed from occurrences that do not cause us to move forward, but to retreat, such as, for example, the price control that so much likes the extremes, that in this they do understand. This price control is typical of anti-democratic and illiberal regimes and we have already seen that in many places in the world it only causes chaos and misery. As for the amendments to the Food Chain Act that bring about in this royal decree, they hardly involve cosmetic changes. Nothing surprising, given that the limitations in this area are clear, as I have already explained. Thus, in relation to the objective of ensuring the solvency of each of the links in the chain, the text remains in a mere declaration of good intentions. On the other hand, the text proposes various support measures in the area of taxes, fines and contract bonuses. In this sense, it has not gone unnoticed that the bonuses that you include in the IRPF have become imperative in the face of the abrupt rise in the interprofessional minimum wage, and it is curious that you yourselves try to alleviate the effects of that sudden rise that you have been engaged in denying for weeks to hang the medal. However, we welcome the Government's openness to rationality and its departure from demagogy, even though it has to be through this patch to solve a problem that you yourself have created. In short, ladies and gentlemen, in Citizens we do not believe that it is incompatible to defend Spain's interests in Europe and to put forward proposals that are responsible and consistent with the European strategy. This is the best way to help our farmers, and you know it. We believe that it is essential to ensure equal conditions for all products competing on the market, regardless of their origin. We also believe that this is an appropriate opportunity to address the process of transformation of the sector, while at the same time combating the phenomenon of depopulation. With regard to the decree and, in sum, as I said earlier, it is difficult not to agree with a declaration of blessed intentions such as the one presented. However, precisely because of this superficial nature, we are going to ask for it to be treated as a bill so that we can include concrete improvements in which we can jointly advance the various parliamentary sectors, because, ladies and gentlemen, our farmers deserve this decree not to be left on wet paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. For the BNG it is urgent to properly value agricultural production, not only to guarantee adequate income for the sector, but particularly for the importance of ensuring a decent life in the rural world, especially in Galicia, where the agricultural sector was penalised for the Spanish State's entry into the Common Market and for the policies promoted by the European Union, which caused a genuine dismantling of Galician agriculture and livestock, especially in the dairy sector, with the consequent abandonment of the rural world. For us, recovering the country's agrarian base, with all its potential, is a strategic issue. In the face of those who prophesied that modernity was about reducing the primary sector, BNG believes that the future is precisely about guaranteeing food sovereignty and quality of life in rural areas, associated with adequate production conditions and criteria for social and environmental sustainability. For that it is necessary to guarantee fair prices for producers. In this sense, from our point of view, this decree incorporates some positive elements and others that are not so positive. We welcome the fact that the price of food contracts is determined according to objective factors and, specifically, that it starts from the actual cost of production to avoid the destruction of value in the food chain, so that no one has to produce at loss. In any case, with this royal decree-law, voluntariness with regard to trade relations between the producer and processor remains in effect, while maintaining the provisions of Law 12/2013 in this regard. From our point of view, all contractual relations between the operators of the chain should be bound by the rules laid down in this decree-law and should not affect only those operators who voluntarily adhere. Of course, this also affects the actual capacity to sanction non-compliance. However, the most serious and damaging aspect for Galicia is its centralizing character. It does not take the opportunity to change legislation with regard to the regulation of interprofessionals as being of a supraautonomic nature, thus preventing Galicia from constituting its own interprofessionals. In our case, it is a relevant issue that affects the main productions of our country: milk, meat, wine, vegetable production, etc., but it is especially significant in the case of the dairy sector, since Galicia is the first milk power of the Spanish State, producing around 40% and accounting for 50% of the farms producing. Therefore, in view of these considerations, our position will be abstaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. A first consideration of this royal decree: we would not be discussing this royal decree without the mobilizations of the whole primary sector, safe, safe. It is funny to see the proposals made now by the representative of Citizens when they were supporting the People's Party government and in two years, in the end, they did absolutely nothing. But good intentions are good. Obviously, these measures are the result of the struggle of the men and women in the countryside, who had to hear many times from various ministers that these issues could not be implemented. From Compromís we will support the decree and agree on the assessment made by the various agricultural organizations. We consider the royal decree to be positive, but we also believe that it can be improved. It can be improved in agricultural insurance, in the price of electricity, are topics that can be addressed, or even in the change of power, for example, of many orange warehouses, warehouses that, in the end, can only change electricity once a year when they only work three or four months. It is good that prices are referred to productive costs and that operators are obliged to pay at least those costs. It seems perfect to us, because sales at losses were being generalized in an absolutely serious way. Positive is also the publicity of those who commit serious or very serious sanctions. But we understand that these measures need monitoring, implementation, to ensure that they can be met and that they are not just good intentions. There are things we also agree on, but we do not understand the limitation. We agree, of course, with the reduction in the number of newspapers to receive the unemployment benefit, but we do not understand why it only applies to Andalusian and extremist workers, we do not understand why it cannot also apply to Valencian, Castilian, Canary, Aragonese and Galician workers, in short. On the other hand, in this exceptional situation which we are passing through, I must point out urgent needs which have arisen in the Valencian countryside, and I suppose that throughout the Spanish countryside, they will be the same in other autonomous territories, which are sometimes problems that have arisen, in the Valencian countryside and in all: one is the problem of clarifying the transfer of workers to the fields. We understand that the issue of transport could be clarified in a diaphanous way, because many workers, many laborers, are immigrants, people who do not have a driver's license or any other way to get to that job; therefore, clear instructions. Secondly, farmers who directly serve their crops to restaurants, bars, non-sedentary sales markets and who have seen that they are now suddenly a sector directly affected by the fact that all their produce is being left in the countryside and cannot get it out; in this regard, I believe that there must be clear instructions regarding non-sedentary food markets because some of us who know mayors or councillors have seen that there is no clarification; in short, we must give them some way out. Clarification on these unsettled sales markets is therefore to be taken into account for those farmers whose sales have been sunk by the closure of these establishments. I ended with one last reflection: that these exceptional, abnormal days serve us all to understand that food does not come from the supermarket, that behind an orange, a bottle of oil, a bottle of milk or a hake is the sweat and effort of many anonymous and invisible men and women that all they want is to live worthy of their work. One consideration, taking advantage of the same thing I said before: fishermen are having a bad time, throwing fish; let's see what measures we can take to help them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Once again, I am the voice of two of my colleagues who, if they were not confined to Lleida, would be here today: Xavi Eritja and Inés Granollers. It seems like an eternity, but just under a month ago a motion by Squerra Republicana was adopted in this House on the endemic price crisis within the agricultural sector and, in particular, within the fruit sector; and it was adopted unanimously. In the four years that I have been here, the truth is that I do not remember a Republican Left motion voted in favour of absolutely the whole parliamentary arc, but we are clear that if it happened, that if that day everyone voted in favour of our initiative, it was simply because there was no other remedy, because of the consensus that there has been on the street for a long time that urgent rescue measures are taken in the face of precarious and abusive conditions within the agri-food sector, or we simply fall across a whole strategic sector. There are precarious and abusive conditions inherent in the sector for too many years; precarious and abusive conditions such as: one, the little bargaining power of hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized producers compared to the large distribution industry expressing prices below their cost; two, the impossible competition with other countries with lower production costs and lower plant protection controls; three, the doubts about the future of the European Union's common agricultural policy; and four, the emptying, ageing and demographic decline in rural areas. One of the measures already voted unanimously in this motion just over a month ago in this Chamber which we find essential and which could greatly alleviate some of these abuses was and is the amendment of the Food Chain Act to prohibit the sale at loss and we welcome the fact that today is one of the most important points of this royal decree. It makes absolutely no sense that the vast majority of small and medium-sized producers are being paid below the cost price, products that are then sold, that reach our supermarkets, four times their value. Neither the cost nor the distribution nor the marketing of food should ever be left in the hands of purely speculative criteria. Continuing to allow supermarket chains, large supermarket chains, to buy below the cost price is de facto to let go not only of those engaged in agriculture, but also of the environment and the auxiliary industrial fabric that surrounds it. And it is that the small and medium-sized farm ensures the industrial, economic and demographic stability of its environment, as well as a comprehensive management of the territory. We cannot ask young people to bet on a sector that sees its future so threatened. Valuing, therefore, as positive this modification of the value chain posed by the royal decree, we continue to point out its inadequacy. Much progress is being made - why not say - by establishing production costs as a factor in defining the food cost price, as well as by requiring that the price agreed between the primary agricultural producer and its first buyer should cover the actual cost of production, but there are still unanswered questions, mainly two. The first: Will this change in the food chain also extend to the intermediaries of the national network of markets, Mercasa, participated in equal parts between the ministry and the municipalities, which today still operates outside the law with contracts of deposit or sale as a result? And the second: When, once and for all, will the transposition of European Directive 2019/633 of 17 April 2019 on commercial, unfair and abusive practices be processed? We believe that its application is peremptory, this directive precisely comes to an end to the abuse of a deposit contract and that it prevents the sale as a result, recognizing something as simple as that any agri-food trade must be based on a contract and a price. With regard to the amendment of Act No. 35/2006 of 28 November 2006 on the taxation of natural persons and the partial amendment of corporate taxes, income of non-residents and property, we continue to value positively the contributions made and the Royal Decree introduces amendments to improve the taxation of young farmers who receive assistance in their first installation within the rural development programmes of the autonomous communities, something crucial to promote rejuvenation and generational relief so essential in the sector. However, it should be remembered that the producer sector has been demanding various cost reduction measures in order to be able to overcome the current campaign and, in view of the new income declaration, we propose to adapt the modules of the IRPF to the loss of income suffered securely. In short, we understand that it is a good royal decree; it can benefit many people and, therefore, we will vote in favour. Since we believe that the measures presented are as necessary as they are insufficient, we urge that this royal decree be used as a bill so that the necessary contributions can be made. We must move towards a model of agricultural exploitation that allows social, economic, territorial and environmental development. We must give a local response to all these global challenges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Catalina. Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u55	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing difficult days and, on behalf of our parliamentary group, I would like to begin this intervention by expressing my solidarity first with the victims, with those affected and affected by the coronavirus, by transferring our solidarity and our support to them. And I express our appreciation to all those workers who are on the front line fighting the virus, thanking also of course, in the context of this royal decree, the primary sector, the workers of agriculture and livestock, fishermen and fishermen, for being there guaranteeing the safe arrival of fresh food to citizens. Indeed, the situation has changed in recent weeks since the adoption of this royal decree and, therefore, it will certainly not be too long before further action is taken. However, our parliamentary group will vote in favour of this royal decree, because it responds to the demands of the sector. Let us remember that the demands were, firstly, in fair prices and control of production costs; secondly, in the actual and effective regulation of the food chain; thirdly, in respect for our farmers, farmers and fishermen; and, lastly, in the improvement and maintenance of decent services in rural areas: education, health, transport, the Internet, etc. By the way, it is absurd to blame this Government for a situation that comes from behind. All these issues are not new. Rural Spain and the primary sector suffer from a historical deficit in investment, infrastructure and services. This deficit situation has been compounded to the extent that the policies of the People's Party Government in recent years have made it unbearable, including budget cuts and the cancellation of public services. Something that we are now seeing in other public sectors we saw in this particular and we can say that between 2011 and 2018 - that is, during the last period of right-wing government in this country - the following cuts were made in programs intended for the primary sector. Programmes related to the competitiveness and quality of agricultural production were reduced by 51,6 %. The competitiveness programme for the agri-food industry fell from EUR 41 million to EUR 32 million, by 21,9 %. The programme of regional incentives for industrial location was reduced by 66.5%. The rural development programme fell from EUR 1520 million to EUR 1233 million, 18.9%. The sustainable rural development programme was not reduced, it was simply eliminated; it went to zero euros and in 2016 it was eliminated. The programmes for the protection and improvement of the environment and the natural environment were reduced by 23.8% at that time. This is what the application of scissors has brought to the rural world. We are in favour of this decree and understand that there is no doubt that farmers and farmers are not receiving fair prices for their work. This aberration must be corrected to ensure income that allows those who care for our land, our food, our biodiversity and our rural environment to live with dignity. This conflict confronts the survival of our primary sector, and thus our food sovereignty, with the speculative economic interests of those who only see in the food an account of results that is the more abundant, the better. It is therefore sensible for the State to intervene when a sector is not regulated and, as we see, it produces injustice. Regulating the value chain of food is an obligation of the State when we see that bad practices endanger the lives of many people and lead many of our producers to extinction. Let me make a few reflections on the Community's agricultural policy. Agricultural and livestock production in Spain is mediated and conditioned by the common agricultural policy. The CAP was designed and put at the service of private interests, because, first, the distribution of CAP funds in Spain favours large farms compared to small and medium-sized farmers. Secondly, the CAP benefits land ownership in relation to production, so a large part of the aid is directed not at the real food producers but at the landowners. The CAP implies the forced application of European producers of schemes and methodologies in practices and on their plant protection, socio-laboral and environmental productions, which have very laudable and necessary objectives but which do not apply equally to productions imported from third countries through the free trade agreements; and here let me ask you that in this context in which we are reviewing this refusal to call for the veto of citrus trees in South Africa which is so much affecting farmers in Levante. I believe that in the exceptional situation that we are in, perhaps, it is time to ask for that safeguard clause. Fourthly, all this results in a perverse and fraudulent system by which all that the large intermediary companies are saving is being paid with public aid. In other words, large food multinationals get their multi-million dollar profits at the expense of taxpayers' money and at the expense of the impoverishment of small producers. The result of all this, ladies and gentlemen, is a growing process of concentration which only favours large capitals. We talk about large international operators of agribusiness, plant protection control, genetic patents of seeds, fertilizers or herbicides, and on the other hand the process of intermediaries that market the products. This situation leaves our producers indefensible about the abuses and impositions of these operators, and makes marginal issues such as food security, environmental conservation or the fair distribution of wealth. This is what causes the concept of free market and free trade, and it is what the policy that has been developed in recent years leads us to a market of imperfect competition and unfair competition from large forbearers and producers over small, different levels of the food chain, from foreign production to local production. The problem is structural and it is not only in Spain, it happens all over the world, it is a problem of economic model, model of property, production, distribution and consumption. [[The Lord]] Farmers and farmers demand and deserve respect, because they are the ones who can save us from the food, economic, social and environmental crisis. That is why we are going to vote in favour, because we believe that this royal decree is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u56	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr López Maraver has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u57	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. At a time when many Spaniards can't say goodbye in the last breath of their lives to our father, our mother, our son, going up to this rostrum of Congress carries a responsibility that I don't even know if I'm worthy of. From here I send you all my affection and solidarity. Those responsible for managing this crisis will have to answer in this very forum, and in the courts, if necessary, for such irresponsibility. At a time when many of our compatriots are struggling to save lives, talking about agricultural measures can only be justified by the firm conviction that our men and women in the countryside have dignity. This dignity is demonstrated these days by playing life, cultivating the land and collecting the fruit, raising livestock and milking our food, sinking into the sea and collecting nets in the ocean, while the Government is more likely to introduce its pawns into the CNI or to censor the work of opposition in this House. We are faced with a real decree that is lacking, limited and inappropriate, which lacks a minimum commitment to our courageous farmers, fishermen, transporters and other food chain operators, to whom today, more than ever, we owe our gratitude. It is a royal decree that seems to have just come out of the furnace of a communist banana republic and that solves little or nothing the fundamental problem of our primary sector. The social workers have already said it's a first step, but this is like a drop of thirsty water, a hungry beggar or a patch to a wheel crossed by a field of thorns. This is a hairstyle that aims only to stop the exit to the street of our camp. The Government intends to address the food chain problem by forcing the farmer to sign a paper that says it is selling above the cost of production and setting a price based on this condition. This sounds very nice, but the reality is quite different. The price is set by the market. We have seen it more than clear the day after it was published in the BOE this royal decree. When the slices kept the same price of oil, wine, cereal or fruit, the prices continued on the floors, and this shows that this measure does not work. I hope you do not have the guts to say that today prices are higher, because we are all aware of the unfortunate circumstances in which prices are as they are. When the next operator of the chain comes to the farmer and tells him that he cannot buy the grapes, strawberries or cereals at the current price, what is the farmer going to do? One cannot refuse to sell the hundreds of tons of products because it does not cover the costs of production. The farmer will be forced to assume the bureaucratic burden and to sell at an unfair price. And it is unfair because the government does not resolve that products have to be profitable, and to be profitable they have to lower production costs and become a fair market. For a Spanish product to be profitable, the first is a real and lasting commitment. The commitment is acquired with direct tax benefits to the whole primary sector, with a drastic reduction in VAT, with a significant drop in energy prices to agricultural holdings, with a decrease in the cost of diesel used in machinery, with a firm proposal to Brussels to receive direct tax-free aid for research in R & D+i, with a guarantee of access to something that in itself means life, water, water for all the peasants in our field. The Spaniards are showing outstanding solidarity, let us hope that the Government is up to it and does the same. If we want to compete in a fair market, Brussels must be required to control products coming from third countries, which in many cases are produced with cheap and slave labour. The conditions in which producers work and the wages they receive are disrespectful compared to those in Spain. They use dubious morality techniques to produce at prices our products cannot compete with. Faced with this global crisis and alarm, Spain has shown that it can be self-sufficient and that it has to be self-sufficient in the future. The agri-food sector has shown that it is an absolutely strategic sector, ensuring the survival and supply of all Spaniards. This text reflects the modification of tax treatment to aid to young farmers and can be paid in several years. This measure, which seems to be the most responsible, is absolutely hypocritical, because it is a propaganda patch more than one government conditioned by the progressive bureaucracy in Brussels. They both do not know that young farmers account for no more than 2% of the total Spanish population devoted to the countryside. In the countryside, all young and old need help. This decree, imbued with socialcommunist dyes, claims that a person working only twenty days a year will go home with a salary for the rest of the year. Ladies and gentlemen, this breaks the culture of effort, sacrifice and overcoming, which many Spaniards are demonstrating today, and the only thing that facilitates is the absence of labour and the increase in the submerged economy. This decree, which speaks of fiscal advantages for the transformation of indefinite or fixed discontinuous temporary contracts, demonstrates the absolute ignorance of this Government and of what work in the field entails; and that I consider this Minister to be the most serious, sensible and wisest of this Government. The strawberry is collected at a specific time, the grape in another, the olive in another, and so on most products, so the farms work many of them on a temporary basis. Talking about tax benefits for indefinite contracts in agriculture is making a real toast to the sun. Moreover, again on the recommendation of European progress, these benefits have to end what they call: breaking the gender gap. And if you're a woman, these will be more advantageous. Today more than ever our society is proving that men and women are the same. Our doctors do not distinguish between gender; our nurses do not distinguish between gender; our pharmacists do not distinguish between male and female; our farmers, fishermen and livestock farmers are men and women who fight for the survival of all Spaniards. Please stop financing chiringuitos; take on the problems of the field and solve them as soon as possible. This decree is an insufficient patch. We are going to abstain from believing in the dignity of the men and women in the countryside, but it is necessary to process a law as a matter of urgency. Today, from my absolute humility, I have an obligation to give thanks with all my soul, with all my heart and with all my encouragement to those who are having the courage to care for each of us, to those who are caring for our existence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u58	Thank you very much, Mr López Maraver. [[The vice-president, Elizo Serrano, took the Chair.-A cleaning service worker proceeded to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u59	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Marcos Ortega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, this is no longer a plenary session; we just have to look at the Chamber. We cannot assume this as a normal day in the lives of the Spaniards, when there are already more than 47,600 infected and 3400 dead. To your memory, I would like to dedicate my first words to moving the spirit and support of those on the front line who are taking care of all of us from all over the People's Parliamentary Group. Neither is today's plenary any more, nor is this a real decree more than so many that this Government usually dictates in an authoritarian and unilateral manner. This is a real decree-law that affects an absolutely strategic sector: the agri-food sector; farmers, farmers, cooperatives, industry, distribution. Thanks to them and only to them, even at such difficult times, we have food and can eat every day. But they need the government to take them seriously, get to work. Minister, almost two years of ministerial inactivity have already resulted in the loss of confidence, resources, competitiveness and viability of farms in the sector. That's why they went out on the street. Do you really believe that this rule is the solution, that everyone is wrong? The APOs consider it insufficient; in fact, only the coronavirus has paralysed the manifestations. Industry and distribution do not know how to interpret it. It is that everyone complains about the same thing, that they have not been consulted and the year of delay leading to the transposition of the directive; not a single meeting until the mobilizations have begun. Are you all wrong? Do you really think it is time to change the rules of the game, in a hasty and alarmed state, instead of focusing on the terrible problems that the pandemic is generating, such as lack of labour for the collection by the closure of borders or the movement of workers to farms safely? Each autonomous community has done what it has been able to do to date, when its explanation has emerged in the Official State Gazette, to seek out livestock in the markets, lamb, calf, pig, which are not being sold and are generating expenses because they must continue to be fed. What is done: promotion, freezing, intervention? What are you doing? Something needs to be done. It is not time to negotiate the contracts that are winning, the milk ones especially. They don't know how to do it in the distance, nor what to stick to, nor how to prevent the prices they had from falling even further. The agri-food industry has no masks, no coats, no gloves. They will close, and then the food supply will no longer be guaranteed. They already solve connectivity, the 300 % that the People's Party left behind. You miss him now, don't you? Digitization, yes, but without a line, you'll tell me what it's for. The cut flower, the proximity markets, speculative imports, do not lose sight of them, these are urgent problems, right now the problems are there. This royal decree, apart from being run over, hasty and unilateral, I believe that it is neither urgent nor a great deal to resolve. Lowering the pedestrians and raising the inspections is neither urgent nor solves anything. Tell me if you're sure this won't hurt the little ones. Do you really think they're gonna be able to compete with the big ones? Have you stopped to think that industry can buy in Portugal, France or Germany, for example, and avoid bringing out production costs and that these countries will also sell in better conditions because their governments have negotiated tariffs and have put money on the table: 150 million France, 1 billion Germany? Tell us how much he's put Spain or how much he's going to put; we don't know. This royal decree-law has a lot of publicity, but very little budget. And don't be mistaken, they're not asking for alms, they're asking for justice. Minister, with all humility and affection, the last thing they need is for the government to humiliate them. Read: Precarious, non-compliance, lack of vigilance, risk of harassment, unhealthyness and even danger to physical integrity; that's written here. [[Show a document]] Do you know the reputational risk, the impact on exports? Do you think that's the image of the sector? What they need - and have been told - is to win by working, like everyone else, and that is achieved in two ways: spending less or entering more, so simple. This is what the People's Party, the People's Parliamentary Group, has put forward in its shock plan: agricultural insurance to reduce premiums and adjust yields, reduce tax modules, the electricity bill adjusted for real consumption, monitor the price of agricultural diesel not only when it rises, but also when it falls; compensate for energy prices, inter-professional minimum wage; implement the sectoral plans that the People's Party has left developed; sweet fruit, irrigation, negotiate tariffs as soon as possible; change partners, compromise a CAP negotiation without a single euro less than the current one. The sector needs stability and security, and today you are just the greatest exponent of the contrary. The People's Party will help you improve this royal decree-law. Treat it as a bill and we will table amendments. But we're not giving him a blank check. Neither a tax nor a single euro less than what farmers and farmers need. Media Spain at this time if it is not for the work of farmers and farmers it will become a desert, we will have no food. This is not the time to counter the public and the private. Farmers and farmers are small, medium, large, private entrepreneurs, yes, they work, they risk and, above all, they contribute decisively to the benefit of Spanish society. Appreciate your effort and do not despise them. It is not the time for socialists or communists - I am sorry, gentlemen of the government - to disregard ideology and to think about people, not the chairs. The dialogue table, the CNI can wait, the sick can't. It is not the time, Minister, for real unilateral, hasty and dubious laws to be decreed. It is time to help those who with their daily effort produce what we eat. It is time for people, for citizens who suffer and see how their government is more concerned about washing their image on television and social media than about solving people's serious problems. It is the moment of those who are not exceptional beings, we stay at home in compliance with the rules and, at best, we come to work when he plays. It is time to work together to help people, in this case those who strive every day in the countryside. They are always essential, and today more than ever. In this crisis we will be supplied exclusively if they continue to strive for all of us. Take the problem seriously, work and help them. They deserve it, they need it and we owe it to them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marcos Ortega. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Leal Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u62	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and given the context of the state of alarm due to health emergencies, it is up to me in this session to be the voice of the work carried out by my colleague Manuel González Ramos, MEP for Albacete, on the subjects which are the subject of this item on the agenda. [[The lady]] And so be our first words of gratitude and appreciation for the extraordinary work of those who are part of the food chain. Thanks to his work we are being supplied normally. Farmers, farmers, livestock, livestock, fishers and fishermen supply our markets, shops and supermarkets; but also transporters, cashiers, responsers, distributors, hundreds of thousands of women and men ensure with their daily work that the necessary products reach all citizens. They have all of them, all of them, all of our respect and recognition. The Royal Decree-Law 5/2020 of 25 February, adopting certain urgent measures in the field of agriculture and food, is subject to validation in this plenary. It will count on the support of the Socialist Group. They are urgent measures, yes, which justify their processing at this time as a real decree-law, aimed at guaranteeing the standard of living, improving the negotiating position and achieving the fair sharing of the general costs of the primary sector throughout the food chain; concrete measures which, as they were presented to the Council of Ministers, are aimed at preventing the abandonment of agricultural holdings and promoting the necessary rebalancing between the various links in the chain: producers, cooperatives, the food industry, the distribution chain, consumers. These are urgent measures, yes, which include precisely the amendment of the Food Chain Act and prohibit sale at loss. Farmers and farmers have shown the Spanish society a feeling about their legitimate demands, from the just reward to their daily work through the defense of fair prices, prices that at least cover the costs of production and pay for their work. It is, at last, the defence of its own dignity, the dignity of a professional sector, the primary sector, which is key to this Government and to the economy of this country, a sector that maintains most of the economic and social life of our territory, of our peoples, of rural Spain, a Spain that maintains the demographic risks of depopulation and ageing. This primary sector is a guarantee for this Government of the social and territorial cohesion of our Spain, a sector that, as I have been told by those who have preceded me in this rostrum, is proving to be key and strategic for the food supply to the entire population in one of the most difficult and complicated times for Spain and for those of us who live in it. Farmers, farmers and their agricultural professional organizations described their situation as a perfect storm just two months ago, where we all recognized that the reduction in trade and economic margins was due, as the Minister of Agriculture has explained, to various factors, which I will not repeat again, from the adverse weather phenomena of this season to the United States Brexit or tariffs, but we could also talk about our own configuration in a trade negotiation carried out on many occasions by a retail sector. However, ladies and gentlemen, from the very first moment the president of the government, Pedro Sánchez, expressed his support for the just demands of farmers and farmers, ordered and put to work his entire government, and they have done so from the various ministries, led in the first place by Luis Planas, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, who in the framework of the table of agricultural dialogue with professional organizations has maintained a work of dialogue, empathy and, why not say so too, minister, of negotiation - right? - of negotiation. The response given by the Government has therefore been the result of dialogue and negotiation with the various sectors, with their legitimate representatives, with the agricultural organizations, but also with the distribution chains and with the autonomous communities, as well as with areas of competence in the various fields. This has also been understood by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which during all these months has maintained a permanent dialogue in its territories with farmers, livestock and fishermen from the leadership of the parliamentary group and its spokesman, Adriana Lastra, and the various Members on its territory. As you know, the royal decree includes different measures, a whole package of measures and bonuses, in which I will not stop, although let me highlight three that I consider relevant, important. The first, without doubt, is the mandatory clause in contracts, a mandatory clause that will give legal certainty to the extent that it is to reflect the price agreed between farmers and farmers and their first buyer covering production costs; therefore, legal certainty. In the second one, I would like to highlight the subject of taxation. It is true that amendments are being made to the IRPF Act to improve the taxation of young people in this tax; yes, of young people who receive aid for the first installation in the rural development programmes established in the different autonomous communities, because you know well, ladies and gentlemen, that generational relief is a pressing issue in the agriculture and livestock sector. In the coming years they will retire, and Minister Planas repeats it on many occasions, six out of ten current farmers. The generational relief is pressing to move the primary sector forward in Spain. And the third of them is undoubtedly in the field of employment. Yes, the number of paid days is reduced to a minimum and it will therefore be easier to access the unemployment benefit - I am finishing, Madam President -. These are times when more than ever we are called to unity, responsibility, we are called to collaboration and cooperation. Therefore, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I ask you to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree. Without delay and without delay, these measures must be implemented as soon as possible. You're going to allow me, President, to consume one more minute. As a Member of Parliament who I am for Madrid, allow me not to abandon this rostrum without remembering, without dedicating words of affection and recognition to Madrid, to the neighbors of Madrid, to its towns and cities, to those who suffer with the loss of those who want most, to those who are sick, to those who are concerned about their relatives and to recognize thousands of women and men who care for us and protect us every day and every night. Be my words of gratitude and gratitude and also my extended feelings for all of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Leal. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken good note of the positions expressed by the parliamentary groups in this debate, which I thank very much. And three points. I've already done the first one from the rostrum. Directive 633/2019 of 17 March of the European Parliament and of the Council is to be transposed, we have time until 1 May 2021. It would have meant a text of more than thirty articles which, frankly, I did not want to take to the Council of Ministers because it did not seem appropriate to me. It seemed much more timely to me what was meant in this Decree-Law on the measures that I really understood most urgently within the general urgency of the situation in the sector, which I share with your ladies and gentlemen. Second observation. Many comments have been made on issues that are not the subject of the Decree-Law, but of the agri-food sector. It will be an opportunity to debate them, and certainly, as I indicated in my initial speech, to work throughout this parliamentary term to make farmers, farmers and fishermen better placed in the food chain and also to ensure that the rural environment can continue to develop. Finally, regarding this crisis that we are experiencing and the consequences on the primary sector, we are following very closely the closure of the Horeca Canal logically, of hotels, restaurants and bars, and its consequences, and in particular, a sector, that of the cut flower, which is also affected. Above all, this Government is working. Thank you again for your interventions, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u65	Thank you very much, Minister. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 6/2020 OF 10 MARCH, BY WHICH CERTAIN EMERGENCY MEASURES IN THE ECONOMIC AREA AND FOR THE PROTECTION OF PUBLIC HEALTH ARE ADOPTED. [[File number 130/000007]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 7/2020 OF 12 MARCH, BY WHICH EMERGENCY MEASURES ARE TAKEN TO RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ECONOMIC IMPACT OF COVID-19. [[File number 130/000008]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 8/2020, OF 17 MARCH, OF EXTRAORDINARY EMERGENCY MEASURES TO BE FRONT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT OF COVID-19. [[File number 130/000009]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u66	We turn to the following item on the agenda: Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 6/2020 of 10 March, adopting certain urgent measures in the economic field and for the protection of public health, which, as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, will be discussed jointly with Royal Decree-Law 7/2020 of 12 March, adopting urgent measures to respond to the economic impact of COVID-19, and Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 of 17 March, on extraordinary urgent measures to address the economic and social impact of COVID-19. To present the three royal decree-laws, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u67	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I am addressing the House today in such extraordinary circumstances to request the support of all groups for three royal decree-laws adopted in the exceptional context of the fight against COVID-19. Before we begin, I would like, as others have done before from the podium, to send a message of affection and support to all the people affected by the disease, to those who are in the hospital, to those who keep quarantine at home, in general to all the citizens of our country who are going through very difficult times because they have seen their way of life so profoundly altered. I would also like to accompany or join all those who have previously expressed their support, sincere gratitude, appreciation for those who are allowing our country's daily work, our economy, to continue to function; not only medical personnel, but those who work in supermarkets, shops, distributors, transporters, farmers, those who keep our cities clean, who allow us today to have this session in the Chamber. All those who are making Spain continue to function are those who are going to allow when this exceptional situation passes we can recover the normal pace of our lives and get out of this health, social and economic emergency as best possible, as quickly as possible. Since the disease of COVID-19 began to expand around the world and, above all, since it was declared a pandemic, the Government has continued to follow the situation minute by minute in order to be able to act quickly and effectively to deal with the different circumstances that have been occurring. In terms of health, we have taken the toughest containment measures in our environment - as the Minister of Health has also said today - and the same force with which we have acted to contain the spread of the virus marks the response we are giving at the economic and social levels. Thus, in parallel with health measures, we have adopted a set of economic and social measures that address three clear priorities: combating the epidemic, strengthening health services and research; supporting workers, families, the self-employed, ultimately all people in our country, particularly the most vulnerable, and supporting economic activity with liquidity and flexibility measures, easing the costs of companies to maintain a minimum of activity despite the intense slowdown in our country, so that we have a basis on which to build economic recovery as soon as we put the health crisis behind us. These are measures that are fully aligned with what countries in our environment are doing and with what international agencies are telling us. They are measures that accompany the decisions and recommendations of the health authorities, giving priority to the protection of the health and safety of people and trying to minimise, at the same time, the risk that the economic slowdown will have a structural impact, especially in terms of employment, which will put a burden on economic and social recovery when the exceptional situation passes. Moreover, our action is marked by a constant dialogue with the economic and social actors of our country, with the autonomous communities, the European authorities and the rest of the governments of our environment. And this is the context, ladies and gentlemen, in which today we bring to validation three royal decrees laws, adopted in just one week, which I am going to explain, not without pointing out that the Government is working on other complementary measures that may be necessary in the coming weeks, that is, the Government will continue to take, in the economic and social sphere, as the President of the Government said a week ago in this very House, as many measures as are necessary, how and when are necessary. Firstly, I should like to refer to health measures. The Royal Decree-Law of 10 March has already adopted a first measure to enable the State to carry out the centralized supply not only of medicines and health products, but also of other essential products for the protection of health, especially of our medical professionals, by amending the Organic Law on Special Measures in Public Health of 1986. As the Minister of Health said today, EUR 432 million in health supplies have been purchased under this measure. But it was, above all, the Royal Decree-Law of 12 March that significantly strengthened the funding of the health system. The resources of the Ministry of Health were strengthened by EUR 1 billion through the Contingency Fund to meet the extraordinary costs generated, so that health needs can be adequately met. EUR 28 billion is advanced from the payments to the autonomous communities, which have the first competence in this area, so that they can meet the immediate needs arising from this situation in their health systems. The Ministry of Finance has already started making payments for 1434 million euros this Monday, and the rest will pay it on 17 April. The Government is also empowered to regulate the prices of certain products necessary for health protection by authorising the Interministerial Committee on Prices for Medicinal Products to fix, in the event of an exceptional situation, the maximum amount of sale to the public of certain medicinal products and products. Finally, the Royal Decree-Law of 17 March introduced research support measures to promote knowledge of the disease to develop medicines and vaccines that help contain the impact of future outbreaks. In particular, the management requirements for both staff and budget management have been made more flexible in order to speed up the work of research centres. Extraordinary appropriations have been authorized to provide the Higher Council for Scientific Research, the CSIC, and the Carlos III Institute of Health with the necessary resources to meet the scientific and research challenges arising from the current health emergency. Voluntary release and confined use activities with genetically modified organisms have also been authorized provided that they are intended or proven to be useful in preventing, combating or containing the epidemic. And the technical provisions fund associated with the Cervera R+D+i Network has been modified to allow the financing of SME and medium-sized venture capital projects through loans managed by the CDTI, the Centre for Industrial Technological Development. A total of EUR 500 million is available for an aid line. Ladies and gentlemen, this is, above all, a health crisis and the Government will therefore spare no effort or resources to enable our National Health System to cope with this emergency. However, it cannot be seen that the crisis has transcended the merely health-care level and is clearly affecting the global economy. At first, when the COVID-19 was still confined in China, the economic impact came through the global value chains, as a result of the reduction in staffing and production capacity at one of the main international logistics centres in Hubei province. Subsequently, with the spread of the virus to other countries, difficulties in supply chains were accentuated and export demand was also affected, particularly in the tourism sector. The same was true of investment decisions by international actors in an environment of high uncertainty. Beyond the fall in external demand, the very containment measures that individual countries have been taking in recent weeks also have a direct impact on demand and domestic economic activity. The closure of schools, the suspension of public events and the ban on flights affect many sectors of the economy, particularly tourism and related services, transport, education or culture. With the strengthening of containment measures and even more with the declaration of the state of alarm and the temporary limitation of the free movement of citizens, the disruption of economic activity has become widespread. All this has occurred in a context of high volatility in the financial markets, the most obvious reflection of which is the extreme volatility of the stock exchange, turbulence in the commodity markets and tensions in the debt markets. All these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, result in a joint disturbance of demand and supply for the Spanish economy that will affect the income of businesses and self-employed, generating liquidity tensions that could lead to a significant and more structural loss of employment if urgent stabilisation measures are not taken. In view of this development, increasing from the impact of the crisis of COVID-19 on the economy, we have resolutely adopted proportionate and effective measures that respond both to shocks on the supply side and on the demand side, paying special attention to people, families, self-employed people, workers, to help them overcome the consequences of the crisis in the best possible way, supporting citizens, especially the most vulnerable, at this time of difficulty. In the Royal Decree-Law of 10 March, in view of the first containment measures, it was decided to include periods of isolation or contagion of private sector workers as a result of the COVID-19 in a situation assimilated to the job loss due to an accident at work for the purpose of the temporary disability benefit of the social security system. The aim was to provide security and tranquillity for workers and self-employed persons affected by the obligations of isolation. This treatment was extended two days later to staff in the public service. In addition, the Royal Decree-Law of 12 March made social decisions to accompany the closure of schools. In particular, in order to prevent the risk of children's feeding, the Autonomous Communities were provided with €25 million to ensure, through food grants, the basic right to food for children in vulnerable situations affected by the closure of schools. In the development of this royal decree-law, in yesterday's Council of Ministers we agreed on the distribution of these credits, which will be granted through direct economic aid or the provision of direct food distribution to families who benefited from a scholarship or food aid and have been affected by the closure of educational establishments. The administrations affected by the reinforced containment measures were also empowered to modify the school timetable so that they could order the course in a flexible manner. These first social measures were strongly reinforced by those included in the Royal Decree-Law of 17 March, which provides for a moratorium on the payment of mortgage loans for vulnerable groups. As you all know, the Government is also working to provide solutions to those who find it difficult to pay their rent, taking into account the specificities of a market in which public entities, large housing holders, other professionals and also people who depend on rent for their monthly expenses. In addition to this moratorium, measures were adopted to facilitate the efforts of the beneficiaries of the unemployment benefit and the benefit for over 52 years of age. In addition to these measures, the Royal Decree-Law significantly strengthened the financial resources to support the most vulnerable groups in this exceptional situation, on the one hand, by creating a State programme, financed with 300 million euros, to guarantee the home care of dependent persons, which will be managed by the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Yesterday, the Council of Ministers also agreed on the criteria for the distribution of this extraordinary social fund, which will be based on population, dispersion, dependent population, surface area and insularity. With these amounts, the autonomous communities will be better prepared to strengthen residential neighbourhood services, especially for older persons, as well as tele-assistance arrangements, home rehabilitation or the strengthening of social services staffing. In addition, local corporations were allowed to use the 2019 surplus to finance expenditures on social services and social promotion. In this way, another EUR 300 million has been mobilised to enable the nearest administration, the local one, to respond immediately to the needs of the most vulnerable people and groups at this time, of those who may not be covered by the measures taken in the field of work. The Royal Decree-Law also prohibited the cutting of basic supplies of electricity, water and gas, as well as telecommunications, to vulnerable groups and extended the definition of protected subjects; the automatic extension until 15 September of the electric social bond was decreed; the review of the maximum selling prices of liquefied petroleum gases, i.e. butane candy, was suspended for six months; and the statutory deadline for citizens to make returns, a consumer protection measure, was also suspended. Beyond supporting citizens in the field of their private life, we have also taken measures at the labour level to protect jobs and minimise the loss of employment during this short-term situation, always guaranteeing the safety of workers who are making Spain stop. Thus, together with the decision which it pointed out to them before considering the periods of isolation or contagion of workers as an accident at work so that they can access the economic benefit due to temporary incapacity, by the Royal Decree-Law of 17 March, new measures were adopted to make working conditions more flexible, so that workers can reconcile their work obligations with the care of children, older or dependent, facilitating the right to adaptation of working hours as a less adverse mechanism for both the worker and the company itself; favouring non-personal work where possible as a means of maintaining productive activity, also maximizing the impact of containment measures on the prevention of contagion; simplifying the procedures of the temporary regulation of employment files, ERTEs, without diminishing the guarantees and legal certainty for both companies and workers. Ensuring that all workers affected by these types of cases as a result of the COVID-19 have access to the relevant benefits, even if they do not meet the minimum contribution periods and do not compute them for the purposes of consuming the maximum collection periods, is one of the elements of this safety net for workers, for all citizens, which we are establishing. Facilitating ERTE is a measure that responds to the express and shared request of the social partners and is a very important element because it implies that the State takes charge of the wage costs during this situation. Companies making use of this tool, in particular SMEs, will also be exempted from the payment of social contributions. In this way, we make it easier for the adjustment of employment to be transitory, avoiding the closure of businesses and dismissals that can be more structural, so that the impact does not go beyond what this health crisis lasts. And, above all, as I said a moment ago, we provide a safety net for the affected workers. We are now working with the social partners to coordinate the criteria for the application of ERTs in these exceptional situations throughout the national territory and the Ministry of Labour is taking a number of complementary measures to clarify that positive administrative silence is applied in the ERTs by force majeure; also measures to speed up the processing and payment of unemployment benefit to be received by the workers concerned, as well as measures to ensure that employment is maintained in those companies which deal with temporary adjustments in capacity and employment, benefiting from this ease of flexibility of ERTs. In addition to supporting dependent workers, a large block of the measures included in the actual decree-laws that we are debating today is addressed to self-employed workers, who are in a situation of fragility at the present juncture, which this Government is very sensitive to. That is why we have acted on three fronts of special relevance to ensure the maintenance of their activity. First, we postpone the payment of all taxes for a period of six months, upon request and with an interest rate subsidy. This includes both VAT quotas and IRPF deductions and other tax figures that apply to them, which will mean an injection of liquidity in the economy as a whole of around EUR 14 billion. Secondly, we have taken steps to reduce their costs and guarantee them minimum income if they suffer a significant fall in income or have to cease their activity. In particular, all self-employed workers, irrespective of their legal form, who are required to close their business or who suffer a fall in their turnover of 75 % will receive an extraordinary termination benefit equivalent to 70 % of the regulatory base. As the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration pointed out a few days ago, this amounts to a minimum of EUR 661. This measure also implies that Social Security will assume the payment of contributions from those who suffer a significant fall in their billing, as was already planned for those who requested the cessation of activity. This measure, ladies and gentlemen, therefore goes far beyond a mere abolition of quotas, since it means that self-employed people who run out of income, while this situation lasts, will not only not pay social contributions, but will also receive a benefit, and it will not only be those who enter zero, but also those who can maintain their activity will see that their billing falls by more than 75%. Similarly, self-employed persons with their dependent employees who are obliged to make a temporary employment regulation file will not have to pay their employees' benefits and social security contributions, which will be borne by the State, and self-employed persons who make fixed, discontinuous contracts between February and June in the tourism, trade and hospitality sectors, linked to tourism activity, will also have bonuses in the payment to social security. The third front for the benefit of the self-employed in which we have taken measures seeks to ensure liquidity and investment in this group. That is why they will be able to benefit from the liquidity guarantee measures of up to EUR 100 billion approved by the Government, so that they can cover their circulation, pay their bills or meet other concepts, thus maintaining their activity and employment. In this regard, yesterday the Council of Ministers approved a first tranche of up to EUR 20 billion, half of which will be reserved for self-employed people and SMEs. The guarantees shall be retroactive and shall guarantee 80 % of the new loans and business renewals requested by self-employed and SMEs. For the rest of the companies, they will cover 70 % of the new loan and 60 % of the renovations. The term of validity shall be equal to that of the loan, for a maximum period of five years. In addition, the self-employed will be able to apply for loans to finance their investment projects through the existing lines of the Official Credit Institute, which has been reinforced with an additional EUR 10 billion, and those of the tourism sector also the ICO specific line of EUR 400 million, which was provided to specifically cover this sector. And both the self-employed and the SMEs that need to make improvements in their computer equipment in order, for example, to be able to facilitate teleworking, will have the support of the Accelera programme, of Red.es, which has been launched with 250 million euros. We have put in place other measures which also benefit these groups, such as extending the time limit for responding to the requirements of the Tax Agency and regulating the suspension of public contracts. In short, they are very relevant, very powerful initiatives that can be complemented, of course, by new measures if necessary, depending on the needs that are being identified in our timely, daily, continuous follow-up of the situation. With regard to strengthening the health sector and the safety net for people, the Government's third objective is to support the business fabric of our country. As I said, containing the spread of the virus is our primary objective, but we must not forget that we must prevent the health crisis from becoming a more lasting economic crisis. We need to make this situation as short and as painful as possible, and that requires maintaining the business fabric and minimizing job destruction, thus preserving a basis on which to reactivate the economy, once we leave these difficult weeks behind. Thus, companies in general, particularly SMEs, can also benefit from the measures I have already mentioned, such as State guarantees, ICO credit lines, deferred tax payments, suspension of public procurement and the flexibility of ERTs. All this will mean an important oxygen balcony for many businesses. They will also benefit from the strengthening of the State-owned insurance cover for exporting companies through the Spanish Export Credit Insurance Company, Cesce, for up to EUR 2 billion, for circular financing operations, and from other measures, such as the postponement of the repayment of loans from the General Secretariat of Industry and the Small and Medium-sized Company, the possibility of commercial companies adapting their activities to the current circumstances, with flexibility for the development of meetings of government bodies, the formulation of accounts or holding of shareholders' boards, and also the flexibility of the deadlines for the declaration of competition. In the field of air transport, the rule governing the use of slots for the coming seasons has been suspended, so that airlines will not be penalised in the future for having reduced their flights in the current circumstances. Apart from these three specific areas: strengthening of the health system, safety net for people and support for the productive fabric, the actual decree-laws which are the subject of this afternoon's debate incorporate other measures of different nature, but which are very important in practice: speeding up the procedure for the public administration's hiring of all kinds of goods or services that are necessary - I do not have to explain anything else here today -; enabling the Ministry of Finance to make transfers between the various budget sections in order to strengthen the financing of health policy by the State; allowing the Government to control the direct or indirect taking of significant shares by third country companies in companies in strategic sectors in Spain; speeding up customs formalities for import and export in the industrial sector for six months; granting guarantees to facilitate the extension of the repayment periods of loans granted to agricultural holdings in order to cope with the drought of 2017, extending for one year the validity of the national identity document... In total, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Spain today brings to its validation a set of real decree-laws that represent an important budgetary commitment, an important effort in terms of measures in these packages. We are talking about the mobilization of additional public spending, liquidity and guarantees of more than EUR 100 billion to inject into the economy and mobilize together with the financial sector up to EUR 200 billion, almost 20% of our gross domestic product. As you see, ladies and gentlemen, these are very complete, ambitious, powerful packages, which are complemented day by day by other decisions that the different ministries are taking within our competence to adapt to changing circumstances and as new needs are being identified, but we cannot forget that overcoming this situation does not depend solely on what the Spanish Government does, on what this Parliament does, on what the different public administrations do. We all need to put our part in the area of our responsibility to overcome this situation. Outside our borders, the European Central Bank has already made certain moves. The European institutions must also respond, which must give a fiscal response to a crisis which is symmetrical, which affects the whole of the Community bloc, which is not individual from any of the countries and which therefore requires a response which cannot be limited to the individual responses of the countries. We can only leave if we act together in health and in economic and social terms. It is time for Europe to demonstrate its strength by giving a common, strong fiscal response to the current circumstances. That is the position defended by the Spanish Government. We are also working on this, supporting ambitious solutions that will put into operation the instruments we have put in place to best deal with this exceptional situation also from a financial point of view. I do not want to conclude without mentioning two matters that we will also validate today with these royal decree-laws and which are matters prior to the triggering of the health crisis, but not least for that reason. Royal Decree-Law 6/2020 of 10 March includes the extension until May 2024 of the suspension of evictions from habitual housing of particularly vulnerable groups due to default of mortgage fees. This is a very important and necessary measure in view of the forthcoming expiry of the current moratorium, the extension of which gives tranquillity and security to more than 29 000 families. The Government has also decided to use the concept of vulnerable collectives to expand in order to protect debtors who, despite being in a situation of special vulnerability, were not beneficiaries until now of the ban on evictions. Thus, it is included among the assumptions of single-parent families, even if they have only one dependent child, and increases the maximum income limit of the family unit that serves as a reference to take account of the number of children and whether it is a single-parent family. In addition, the application of this moratorium is extended regardless of whether the housing contractor is a natural or legal person. The first of the Royal Decree-Laws for Validation also includes a provision supplementing the legal regime of the Bank Restructuring Asset Management Company, Sareb, adapting it to its special nature as an asset settlement entity to facilitate its continuity and the fulfilment of its mandate, including its social housing programme. To this end, its legal regime is amended so that it is not subject to dissolution because of a reduction in net worth to less than half of its share capital. Finally, the Royal Decree on the Development of the Law on the Management, Supervision and Solvency of Credit Institutions of 2014 is also amended to extend the type of already constituted financial institutions that can request their conversion into banks. With this extension, securities companies, payment institutions and electronic money institutions will also be able to apply, which means avoiding corporate restructuring processes, also improving the legal certainty of the Spanish financial system. Ladies and gentlemen, I am no longer extending. I have detailed a lot because these are three royal decrees-laws that have a lot of substance and that must be debated with the attention they deserve at this headquarters. I would like to conclude by stressing two ideas. Firstly, this crisis that we are experiencing is exceptional and also transitory. Our country is strong, it has important assets. The first, as it is proving - and throughout the afternoon in this Chamber we have been talking about it - is a mature and supportive population. We will get out of this situation without any doubt, but the decisions we make now and the responsibility with which we are able to act will depend to a large extent on the rapid and effective recovery after this difficult period. That is the philosophy that is guiding this Government and that will continue to guide us in the weeks ahead. They have no doubt that we will continue to act when it is necessary, where it is necessary and doing what is necessary to tackle the health crisis, to protect citizens and to ensure that the economy maintains a solid foundation on which to recover quickly. We will do so as before, following the recommendations of the health authorities, aligned with the countries of our environment, cooperating with the rest of the public administrations, which have the primary responsibility in the health and social field, listening to the social agents and without forgetting anyone, without leaving anyone unattended in these harsh circumstances, guaranteeing a safety net. Indeed, in the context of the extension of the state of alarm that the Government has requested of Congress, and which will be discussed below, we are already working on additional measures to support affected groups and businesses to continue to respond to the problems and situations that are emerging as decisions are taken at different levels. The second point I would like to share with you is that we need to continue to act together, with loyalty and responsibility. Citizens are following the authorities' recommendations on time, maintaining the maturity and temperance they have been showing so far, and thus helping to overcome the crisis. Public administrations must act in a coordinated way by supporting each other in the health, economic and social response. Financial institutions must provide liquidity and support to businesses, in particular SMEs and self-employed people, so that they can overcome this situation in the best possible way, and companies must provide their workers with the necessary security conditions and try to maintain employment by resorting to temporary employment regulation files only when they meet the legally provided conditions for public resources to be actually directed to those in need. This without forgetting the responsibility of the Government and Parliament, which is manifested today by the validation of these three royal decree-laws, with which we both fulfil our obligation to strengthen the health response, support the most vulnerable people and sustain the economic fabric and employment in order to try to avoid a more structural and lasting impact. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of you for your loyal collaboration, which I am convinced will continue to be the focus in the hard weeks ahead. I think that the Spanish citizens would not understand that it was otherwise when they themselves, with their behavior, staying in their homes, are collaborating in the fight against the disease. It depends on everyone tomorrow; that we row together depends on how and when we arrive at good port after the storm. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u68	Thank you very much, Madam Third Vice-President of the Government. Mr Martínez Oblanca was the first speaker on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Madam Vice President Third. The validation of these three royal decrees-laws must be only the first step for the Spanish to have the support with which to tackle the socio-economic difficulties resulting from the VOCID-19 pandemic. In line with our commitment, the Forum will support these three regulations, but we would like to stress that in order to increase their effectiveness they must be added to those which will complement the other administrations, which requires, ladies and gentlemen, the unlocking and corresponding liquidation once and for all of the 28 billion euros that the Spanish Government owes to the autonomous communities. Asturias, like the other communities, needs an additional plan for self-employed people and SMEs based on social commitment to equal opportunities and which addresses the great impacts that representative organizations are auguring around hospitality, travel agencies, textiles and clothing, trade, etc., on whom thousands and thousands of jobs depend and need protection in order to avoid their definitive destruction. I also consider it essential that the Government respond to the request to extend the legislative measures to support physiotherapists, podiatrists, occupational therapists, logopeds, optics and dietary, nutrition and other specialties for which the closure of their clinics, consultations and establishments has not been decreed, and will therefore have many obstacles to access to ERTs and public aid, as has already been warned by their general councils, colleges, organizations and professional associations. The reinforcement of all these urgent measures must also come, as I stressed at last Wednesday's plenary session, from supranational actions so that Spain can face the enormous socio-economic consequences resulting from the pandemic and guarantee the coverage of unemployment, the liquidity needs of companies and the generation of reactivating investment as long as private investment is reborn. I reiterate this once again: the national plans of each country have to incorporate a multiplier factor through the solidarity economic Europlan of the twenty-first century. The OECD itself, created at the end of the Second World War to coordinate the Marshall Plan and rebuild Europe, has already made a coordinated international effort to tackle the crisis resulting from the coronavirus on a large scale. To promote this colossal effort must be implemented without delay by the Government of Spain, and you, Madam Third Vice-President, have much to do there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u71	Thank you, ma'am, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I want to announce that we, as we said last week, will support these royal decrees. First, it was adopted on 12 March, which clearly had far more modest measures than the one on 17 March. I believe that we all share the need for these measures, beyond being sufficient or having to adapt them over the course of this period. With regard to priorities, I think there are three of them - I told them the other day in the debate and I remarry them today - and I think they are shared with the Government and with all the parliamentary groups. The first priority is health, it is attention to life and to professionals who are working on the first line of battle; secondly, it is short-term economic measures that serve to alleviate the effects that this unprecedented crisis is currently generating in our country, and, thirdly, we will also have to think about pushing forward long-term measures. With regard to health measures, I am not going to focus much on them today because tomorrow we have the presence of the Minister of Health in this House, where we will be able to address both the measures contained in this decree, as well as the different ministerial health orders or those that it has put into effect during this period. I want to point out the following: I think there are very few Spaniards who understand what is going on with shopping. Every day the government comes out and announces billion dollar investments in health products that do not reach hospitals or that are not reaching the people who are doing this task in the front line. Something is failing, or the money that is being said to be being spent is actually smaller or there is a supply problem that we need to address. Secondly, we share the short-term economic measures, but some have remained scarce, such as those relating to the self-employed. We also called for the exemption from the quota of self-employed persons for the month of March. The economic paralysis of the month of March is total; it is fraught with the situation of a lot of self-reliant people and I think that the Government should have been much more ambitious there. With regard to ERTE, we share the measure. We believe that it is a flexibility that goes beyond the 2012 labour reform and that it is essential to do so at a time like this. We believe that it will help in some cases to maintain employment and that it will also help companies that are going through a difficult situation. What we call for is agility and flexibility for public administrations. With regard to the municipality surplus, I think it should have been more ambitious, and not just with the 2019 surplus. There are municipalities that have a significant surplus from other fiscal years and could now allocate that money to social or health policies. As far as the payment of taxes is concerned, I think it should have been delayed much longer. We lack measures for farmers and farmers, who I believe are being forgotten by these decrees. Finally, as far as long-term measures are concerned, the Minister said - and I agree - that this is going to be a transitional situation. But the problem is that it's going to lengthen over time - all the indicators indicate that this isn't going to be a matter of a month - and it's not the same thing to stop the economy for a month than to have it stopped for a semester. This tells us that we are going to have to put an economic base almost again in many sectors that are going to push us forward so that long-term employment is broken down as little as possible and that economic sectors can be restarted. That makes us have to focus right now, because we have to be aware that our country's debt is alarming and yet we will have to continue to water the Spanish economy with liquidity; we will have to do so. Europe is fundamental. I believe that yesterday we all had bad news with the lack of agreement in the European forum. I hope that the meeting of leaders will cushion that lack of agreement yesterday, but it is essential that the European Union joins that. Finally, I would like to make a comment. It seems to me that it has been a lack of respect and also a clearly negative point to use decrees at a time like this to incorporate Mr. Iglesias into the CNI. I really think it's disrespectful. I don't think this is the right time. And, of course, instruments for national emergency characteristics, such as these, cannot accommodate a question of these characteristics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, lastly, Mrs Vehí Cantenys.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u73	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, from our point of view economic measures are insufficient; insufficient in relation to the countries of the environment, especially in terms of work; insufficient in relation to what the health authorities are asking for; and insufficient because this crisis cannot depend on goodwill either on the Spanish or on the Spanish or on the employers. From our perspective, the collective survival of the peoples of the State depends on three fundamental elements from an economic point of view. Firstly, they divide wealth; secondly, they invest in public health; and thirdly, they secure guaranteed income and already suspend rent and mortgage payments for the entire population. The key is to what we direct the economy, whether to the lives of simple people or to the needs of the market and the rich; life or private benefits of capital. Let us say that this is not the largest investment in resources in history; nor is actual actual spending 20% of GDP, and in addition to the bank bailout, much more public revenue was mobilized and also from the European Central Bank. They divide the wealth, that this crisis we do not pay the usual ones, as happened in 2008. You spoke of responsibility; that banks, big fortunes and companies are held accountable. All the revenues provided for by the Royal Decrees are either taxes already collected or contingency funds, budgets of the public administrations. We need more recaptancy measures; firstly, that the European Central Bank, instead of threatening new structural adjustment plans, issues debt-free money, money so that the states can cope with this crisis; that the banks immediately return the ransom money. Citizenship saved the banks, where's the money? And that the monarchy immediately enter the inheritance money into the public coffers and renounce the public allowance. Moreover, in anticipation of a long crisis, new medium-term recovery taxes are also needed. And it's just that big fortunes need to pay more! Emergency taxes are needed on the big capitals of this country, on the families of old, on the businesses of old; or their profits or our lives, there is no more, minister. Finally, measures should also be taken to ensure that large companies stop recapitulating; suspension of all payments for all supplies from all families; suspension of all mortgage payments and suspension of all rents. We are not only worth the vulnerable families, first, because the bars are very short and, second, because the problem of the debt of the families in the Spanish state is a much more serious problem than the one you are calculating. And all this recapturing, for what? Firstly, to invest in public health. And if we talk about public health, it is fair to say that cuts in health kill, and this today is an objective reality; and that, moreover, they have political leaders in Catalonia and also in Madrid, because the sale of the public has social class but has no borders, minister. And it is an honor, from a political perspective that defends life, that every day at eight o'clock in the afternoon the citizenry comes out to applaud. But, listen to me, we didn't empty the hospitals with applause. Put all the resources needed for public health; make available all private resources. The employer has many more beds than have been made available to public health. Please intervene, to nationalize. Ambulance companies in Catalonia are doing ERTE, they are doing a lot of collective layoffs. Please put all the resources in private. So are the pharmaceuticals. Do you know that they are the most listed companies today? Do you think the debt has to go ahead of our lives? And put all resources without economic benefit; we don't want to have medium-term debts. Reorganize the production of closed factories, which produce sanitary equipment. It can't be that people are printing masks with 3D printers. Reorganize production and businesses that are standing and provide evidence for the entire population. Finally - and I finish, President - they also invest in basic income. It's imperative. Do you know what medicines are best sold in pharmacies? Anxiolytics; all medicines to stop anxiety. People don't know if it'll come to the end of the month. And they also suspend the payment of rents. We are not worth the moratorium, minister; we are not worth having more families without knowing if they will arrive at the end of the month, without sleeping. If you don't, you'll be leading the citizenry to a massive rental strike. What part of the dilemma are you from, Minister? We, of life, and let us hope that you too, because this apart from economic misery is going to cost us a lot of lives. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[A lady from the cleaning department proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you very much, Pilar. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u75	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I want my first words to be to highlight the best that society has, which for too long has been indiscriminately attacked but which today is the shield of the citizenry in the face of this crisis: the common, the public. We want to value all the people who defend it, who sustain it and who are now more than ever proving that, besides believing in it, they make it a treasure that protects us, that saves our lives, that assures us the future by putting our lives before even their own. We don't have enough words to thank you. For all of them, and especially for all of them, for the invisible, not only our applause but our commitment that we will never stop betting on you, defending the public, which is nothing but defending the future. Thank you. Today we come to this House with proposals, because we do not believe that it is time to settle accounts or to launch sterile criticisms. It is time for responsibility, collaboration and initiative. The Government is committed to acting in this regard with responsibility but with demand, with the sole aim of protecting citizens and saving lives. We are sure that this is also the aim of the Government, so we will not criticize it for the management or the decisions made so far, because they have been more or less successful, but we do ask one thing, that the responsibility that we are taking here different groups shows it also by the Government and responds to the requests that are being moved to it. We hear as a mantra that this crisis will stop it together, and no, it's not true. Banks are not contributing anything, they don't even give back what they owe. Large companies are also not close to the citizenry but thinking about their benefits at the expense of the health of the workers. The Royal House is not even worthy of giving up part of its millionaire allocation during a crisis in which it is contributing zero. Electrics continue to collect their bills, entrepreneurs continue to evade taxes. No, Mrs Calviño; we are not all about to stop this crisis equally, because there are those who put life in the center and others put their economic interests. The working people of this state must be the priority, protecting their health and their future; they cannot always pay the same. Talk to the big companies, the bosses, the banks and whoever they need. Force them to tie their shoulders, to take on the cost of this crisis as well. Enough privileges for a few. There are still 60 billion unreturned bank bailouts when virtually all financial institutions have billions of profits. They forced us to rescue them among all; now they must do so, large companies with multimillionaire positive results that they claim to pay us back so that they will not stop winning. We do not want their false charity advertised, we want them to pay what they owe and to contribute to overcoming this crisis, no more or less. This is where the costs of caring for people, expanding health services and equipping them with the equipment they don't have, will be covered by the public effort, yes, but also by banks and large companies. It's time to make sure this crisis doesn't pay back the usual. Today, with our abstention, we will allow for the adoption of the economic and social measures that have been adopted. We believe that this is the first step towards the social and economic shield that we must build, but it is indeed insufficient. More steps are needed, deeper and more far-reaching. What we are moving here today are proposals that we hope will be collected and put into effect: proposals in the health, social and economic fields that we consider urgent if we want to deal with this crisis with the lowest human and social costs; proposals based on the experience of other countries and the recommendations of international bodies and experts that I am going to put to you. In this regard, with regard to health measures - the most urgent - and following the recommendations made by the World Health Organization, we call for the generalization of mass testing to be started by rapid testing of the majority of the population, starting with risk groups and people with mild symptoms. Equally urgent is the provision of personal protective equipment to all health-care providers in basic services, as well as the provision of equipment to those killed. We know that it is not easy, but it is necessary to protect those who protect us and to do so now. We therefore appreciate the Minister of Health's announcement on the purchase of masks, tests and breathing equipment, but we must also extend these protective measures and equipment to all those who work to provide essential services. Particular attention deserves, for its importance, the need for private health to be put at the service of the public system, ensuring the direct management of all the facilities, equipment and personnel with which private health is provided. With regard to social measures, we call for the suspension of mortgage payments and, as a matter of urgency, also the suspension of rents for persons in vulnerable situations, reduced income or affected by ERE, ERTE or redundancies; also for the suspension of the payment of essential service bills, such as electricity, water and gas, for vulnerable groups or with reduced income, and for paid leave for childcare for the duration of the emergency, which would be automatic for single-parent families and for one of the two persons in the case of two parents. With regard to economic measures, we propose a package of economic and social measures that guarantee livelihood income and public services for the entire population, because the key must be to guarantee public income and services so that the economic activity of companies can be resumed after the health crisis has passed. Thus, for the duration of the state of alarm, an emergency guaranteed income equal to the interprofessional minimum wage will have to be ensured so that any person who has substantially reduced his or her income can secure the vital minimum income that will enable him or her to cope with such loss of income. Measures should also be put in place for self-employed workers and small traders and companies with a special unemployment cover for precarious, fixed-term or temporary workers who are not currently entitled to cover but also accompanied by suspension of the liquidation of tax obligations and prohibition of lay-off in general, self-employed and any other form of non-payment of a monthly quota. With regard to the self-employed, we believe that the percentage of losses to benefit from the special benefit should be lower; it is now, in fact, 75%, as Minister Calviño has pointed out, but it should be lower and it should also be accompanied by the suspension of the payment of commercial rents and supplies. The ban on economic redundancies during the crisis is also a necessary step, both in the public and private sectors, as Italy has already decided. Measures should be taken to ensure employment by prohibiting redundancies, ERE and ERTE, in companies that exceed a certain billing threshold or have had profits in the previous year. As the European Union has already approved, the spending ceiling must also be left without immediate effect and the spending rule must be made more flexible for autonomous communities and municipalities. Similarly, since we cannot allow anyone to take advantage of this situation, we must avoid speculation on basic necessities, health care and cash, and to do so we must block the price of food products, basic necessities, as well as health care and transport. We are aware that all these measures represent a huge economic and financial effort for the public coffers, so we propose to take the measures that have not been taken for too long. We propose that not all the weight be left on the backs of the social majority, who is finally going to sustain all these measures. That is why we are proposing a series of fiscal measures and that a number of urgent amendments be approved, including a tax on the bank that returns at least the 60 billion bank bail-out that large banks still owe to the public purses, as well as a special tax on wealth and large fortunes that affects the richest 1% of the state. It should be noted that 52 000 people in the Spanish State have between €4.5 million and €9 million worth of assets, over 890 000 people have between €1 million and €4.5 million, and it should also be noted that only 200 of the 600 largest fortunes pay the property tax. It is time for these people to put a part of their wealth at the service of citizenship, of the public. As I said before, it is not a time of false charity, but of a fair and effective contribution, and I would like to recall that it is possible to do so, as has already been shown in Gipuzkoa, a territory in which this tax was implemented with correct and good results. All this in collaboration and with the agreement of the territories with their own fiscal capacity, as is the case with our country; emphasis, collaboration and agreement. We believe that they are measures of common sense that seek to protect people and allow the economic recovery of families and the productive fabric. I hope you share them too. I'm done. I said at first that I wouldn't make any direct criticism, but I will do one on the right. Please hold back and think before you speak, because the responsibility for the extreme situation that we are experiencing is the system that you so defend, the system that is putting the lives of thousands of people at risk. You are most responsible for the disastrous state of public health. They're responsible for the biggest cuts, the looting of the public. That is why I tell you to stop your criticisms, out of respect for the citizenry, out of respect for all the workers in public health, who are leaving their skins in inhuman conditions, out of respect for all the workers who are forced to go to work every day because the great entrepreneurs refuse to stop making money, even at the risk of putting lives at risk. You have no legitimacy to speak in the name of public health that you cut and privatized without scruples. Go out to the window or balcony and listen to the thundering sound of applause for public health every day. There they have the best response to their policies and criticisms. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the lives of the people, their future, are in their hands, it is their responsibility and also our responsibility to protect them and assure them of a worthy future. We're all responsible and we're up to it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u76	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[A lady from the cleaning department proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u77	Thank you very much, President. We jointly discussed the validation of the three decree-laws that preferably contain measures to stabilize the social and economic situation in order to cope with the impact of COVID-19. As described in the explanatory statement of the Royal Decree-Law 8/2020, the health crisis raised to an international pandemic by WHO has been transmitted to the economy and society, in part through the strengthening of measures to contain the pandemic, which have entailed restrictions on free movement and reductions in labour supply, resulting in a widespread breakdown of economic activity and an increase in market volatility, economic and social disturbances requiring urgent stabilization measures by the public authorities, in order to alleviate the fatal consequences in the form of loss of businesses, jobs and helplessness for the most disadvantaged who, if not adopted, would become structural. Ultimately, it is a matter of providing urgent support and protection to the productive and social fabric, as it is being done internationally, since the pattern of incidence of the health crisis in the productive and social fabric is common internationally. In this regard, we consider it justified to adopt the decree-law figure. It is a justified instrument from the beginning of necessity to deal with the serious situation that is going through and that requires rapid responses to the changing circumstances of the economic and social situation. The tsunami we are experiencing and its speed we perceive in view of the collapse of many of the references that soften our lives, from sport to the markets, the activity of services, economic activity, the advance of the pandemic, the burden of our health system, the cessation of education, 3434 deaths and 47,610 known infected, and this only in sixteen natural days in which three decree-laws have been passed, whose validation we are debating today, elections have been suspended, the WHO, as I said, declared an international pandemic, borders have been closed and the economy has been infected, resulting in its disruption, and we see an unprecedented social crisis close to the international level. That is why we consider, as I said, the extraordinary and urgent need to take action through decree-laws. Focusing now on the content of these three decree-laws whose validation we discussed, and without needing to go into detail in their concrete measures, which some will mention in the next item on the agenda, the Basque Parliamentary Group considers them steps in the right direction, although they are most likely to have to adapt according to the evolution of the situation generated by the coronavirus. As has already been pointed out, the effects this pandemic is going to have on the economy and on society are uncertain and indeterminate, but they are expected to be significant for the collapse, as I said, of markets and the paralysis of an important part of productive activity, which involves unemployment, which we hope will be temporary, for many workers. Therefore, a coordinated response from the entire institutional fabric, including the European one, is needed to mitigate the negative impact on the economy and people. Health measures, economic measures and social measures must interact; they must dialogue with each other in a balanced and dynamic way in order, containing the expansion of the pandemic, to try not to fall into an economic coma, in turn giving cover to people and groups in weaker situations. Now, more than at other times, it is worth remembering that it only goes faster but together it goes further, and without leaving anyone behind. In this regard, the measures contained in the decree-laws together with those implemented at all institutional levels, we believe that they are moving in the direction of strengthening the protection of workers; preventing people from seeing their purchasing power diminished; cushioning income losses due to lack of employment; maintaining the state of slowing down the productive fabric, without prejudice to compliance with security measures and combating this acute health crisis. These measures and initiatives will certainly require more, for which Europe's aid will be needed through mechanisms such as the MEDE, asset purchase programmes, suspension of tax rules and progress in the sharing of risks. And it is that the coordination of the response at European level is already an unavoidable necessity. In short, these decree-laws contain measures in the right direction, but for them to be effective they will require not only the speed in their implementation - some of them have a very limited duration of one month - but also not to lose sight of the indispensable formulation of an economic recovery plan for the future with measures, as I said, not only economic but also fiscal and social measures in view of the prospect that the crisis will extend over time. I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying that we will support the validation of the decrees-laws in considering, as I said, that they are steps in the right direction, without prejudice to the additional comments that I have already made to them through the motions for resolutions on the next item on the agenda and that, although many of them have not been accepted by the Bureau, I will detail them in the next item on the agenda. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you very much, Pilar. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u79	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, minister and vice president. We live in troubled times. These days Spanish society is shocked by an escalation of pain and concern over the numbers of compatriots who lose their lives by the COVID-19, while thousands and thousands are infected every day. I would like to pay tribute again, because it is the least they deserve, to all the victims of COVID, and to their families, in the first debate on the plan to shock the pandemic. My commitment, that of Inés Arrimadas and that of the entire Citizen Parliamentary Group, is to live up to your sacrifices. We will give everything in our daily work to take care of the health of the Spaniards and protect your livelihood. Ladies and gentlemen, we are suffering one of the greatest blows in our recent history and the most serious health threat of the last century. Every day we wake up with hundreds of deaths and thousands of new ones infected by the coronavirus. At such hard times, when our world as we know it staggers and literally stops, the things that really matter acquire a special shine. And that is why today I want to send the Spaniards a message of hope. Because I know we're gonna make it. I know that because, like us, all citizens are currently fighting for their parents and grandparents, for their children and their families. Because we all know that we are doing it for those around us rather than for ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, our elders are the great treasure of Spain; they should not be urged to stay at home or talk to them about the need to take drastic measures, as they are the most resilient generation in history; they are a source of inspiration and recollection when facing difficult times. We must move along this hard path that the coronavirus poses to us with the silent acceptance of the duty of our elders, but also with the courage of our children. The crisis of the coronavirus is writing a page more, extraordinary yes, but no more than the chronicle in its entirety of the pact between generations that has raised this great country in which we live. The Spaniards of the future will examine us for how we now behave with these parents of democracy who are our parents and grandparents. To live up to what they deserve is not an option, but a moral imperative. We are facing a situation that a few months ago would have seemed unimaginable to us. We are struggling one by one to stay at home with the family, making up formulas every day to entertain the little ones; to go out to work in the hospital or patrol the streets; to help that older neighbor who is alone. We are also struggling as a society to go out on the balcony on time or to convince our people to stay at home. We all miss our own. But, despite all the bad things, we are seeing a society for which it is worth continuing to contribute our sand granite. Unknown people who suddenly share ties of solidarity, union and affection as a result of an unexpected adversity like this. Let's imagine for a moment the next day. What can't the united Spaniards get if we defeat this virus? Every day will be a little harder, we know it, but our determination is cumulative. All the solidarity behaviors, all the steps taken in the right direction, all the good things we have achieved together will now serve as strength. Citizens is a state party; from our central position we have tried to be responsible from the first minute. We have made progress in calling for decisive action and also in being the first to close ranks with the Government of the nation, despite the fact that this Government is not a Government of Citizens. Inés Arrimadas publicly gave our full support to the Executive to launch it once and accelerate and take decisive action as soon as possible. We held hands with the Government, from this Parliament, and held our shoulders from the four autonomous communities where we co-governed to save lives first and save jobs later. We thank the Government for accepting the glove, listening first and then taking steps along the lines of what we have been proposing. First by declaring the state of alarm; second by adopting economic decrees that have incorporated much of our proposals to freeze without destroying the economy. We celebrate it because those who win - I insist - are the Spaniards. It is clear that it could have been done before, that uncertainty has destroyed jobs, that fear of the unknown has lowered the blind and laid the key to many businesses. We fight the clock and we're late, but we're on time. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government, as the Spaniards have seen since the first day, is receiving absolute loyalty and unreserved support from Citizens in this very complicated crisis, but for collaboration to be complete and as effective as possible in the fight against COVID-19 it is necessary for the Executive to live up to the loyalty it receives and to fulfil its functions with maximum transparency. Because it is not a receipt, gentlemen of the government, to take advantage of a decree of economic measures against the coronavirus to paste a clause that puts the vice president of the government in the CNI Commission. We are responsible, and that is precisely why we ask you to respond with the same responsibility. What national emergency motivates Mr. Iglesias to be shielded in the CNI commission? Explain this, because that partisan use only deepens in a harmful gap between government and opposition that in Citizens we do not think is convenient at a time like this, because - I insist - we have a very big crisis ahead and it is our obligation to provide solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now take into account another danger: self-congratulation. We are moving forward and there is unity in this House, but much remains to be done. In Citizens we are prepared and will continue at the forefront proposing measures; therefore, from here, we ask you for a plan of collision against coronavirus in senior residences, more protection for our health care providers, more ICU equipment and more diagnostic testing, more coordination between the central government and the autonomous communities to strengthen isolation controls and to avoid as much as possible all unnecessary displacements and agglomerations. We also ask them to authorize the municipalities to use their nearly 5 billion surplus so that they can use them in health care. Look, saving lives must be our priority, but we must also save jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, from the outset in Citizens we are putting forward a threefold economic guarantee: wage, liquidity and taxation, so that families, workers, businesses and self-employed people can face this hard blow with certainty and confidence. I am thinking of those who in these days see their day reduced or are engaged in an ERTE, or of the self-employed who do not know whether they will finally be able to benefit from the measures of this royal decree-law. We listen to you, understand you and work each day to give you a personalized solution to each of you. One of the premises we put forward was the guarantee that workers would not lose their wages, even if their day was reduced. We were clear that we could not leave the workers to their fate while taking the necessary measures to fight the virus. We were also aware that we could not allow this cost to be borne exclusively by companies; it would be completely impossible, in addition to being unfair, for them to face the same labour costs without any help as long as their orders are cancelled and their revenues drop. With all this in mind, Citizens presented to the Government a series of measures aimed at facilitating that companies could extend social distancing, protect workers and alleviate the economic impact of the virus on employment; that companies and workers had at their disposal mechanisms to adapt working hours or working hours, set up or reassign staggered shifts to cover distance work; that companies could simply go to temporary employment regulation files to reduce working hours or suspend workers' contracts on a temporary basis, thus allowing employment to be maintained and avoiding the use of dismissals; that workers affected by an ERW were not required to be short-term unemployed or to face social security contributions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we are grateful that you have listened to some of these proposals and incorporated many of these measures into your economic plan against the coronavirus. We are taking steps in the right direction, but I have to tell you that we are not doing well with the self-employed, and I disagree with you on this, Minister. Look, we're on the 25th and, in less than a week, the March quota will be passed on to all self-employed people. Today, self-employed people do not know whether or not they will be able to benefit from aid or under what conditions; there are professionals who are proud of this country and who do not know what their business is going to be, who look to the future with uncertainty. We cannot tell the self-employed to ask a bank for credit, to be indebted to pay the fee and taxes. This is another paradox of their shock plan; on the contrary, we have to allow them to paralyze the quota, social contributions and taxes until this crisis passes, and make them easier from the government; do not put them on more paperwork with the managers who are already up and down. Gentlemen of the Government, the self-employed always hold their shoulders, create wealth and employment and are one of the most vulnerable groups in this crisis. It's our duty to help you. For this reason, in Citizens we endorse the proposals of the associations of self-employed persons to freeze quotas and contributions, so that self-employed persons who have to take care of a minor or an older person for the closure of schools or centres of older persons do not pay quotas and can also benefit from these subsidies, so that Social Security takes charge of the quotas from the first day of leave and not from the two months as it happens now; that those who resume their activity after the coronavirus enjoy a flat rate that changes their quota of self-employed persons for one of 60 euros per month during the first year. We all have to get out of this crisis together. We can't leave anyone to their fate. We have a moral obligation to our autonomous. We're in time to rectify it and change it. Citizens are the party of the self-governing and we will continue to work to ensure that they have the support and help they deserve. Once we have guaranteed workers' wages and are betting heavily on our self-employed, we must focus on ensuring liquidity. It is very simple: that no solvent company sees its viability threatened by a timely credit problem - and here the 100 billion euros in guarantees come into play -; however, the actual decree does not detail the articulation of this measure. From here we ask the Government to put into practice, as soon as possible, the mechanisms for making the guarantees available to companies. And, abounding in our line of proposal, we ask that it be the financial institutions themselves that offer the credit lines, that the money reaches the company within two to five days, that the payment period is not less than two years, unless the customer requests it; that the interest rates be those corresponding to the most creditworthy credits; and, finally, we ask that ICO credits be able to cover the short-term liquidity needs of the companies, easing the risk and temporary conditions and requirements with which they are currently granted. From Citizens we have also urged a tax moratorium so that no company or self-employed person affected by this crisis has to pay tax on the income of individuals, VAT or corporate tax during this time. The measures contained in the second decree go in the right direction, Minister, although they remain short. We believe that the tax moratorium should have gone further, both from the point of view of taxpayers who can benefit and from the point of view of the amount of tax debts. In Citizens we advocate extending the tax moratorium to all companies, regardless of their size, and extending the moratorium also to social security quotas. Finally, we believe that the Ministry of Finance should postpone the filing and income tax of 2019, whose campaign starts in just two weeks. It is only fair that taxpayers, who have already been sufficiently damaged by this crisis, have the opportunity to postpone their income tax returns if they pay. Furthermore, we are concerned about the fiscal direction of this Government. We need a commitment that after the coronavirus crisis, taxes will not be imposed on families, workers, small and medium-sized enterprises or self-employed people. Citizens offered their support weeks ago for the urgent handling of national emergency budgets designed, designed and calculated to deal with this crisis. - Exactly the opposite of what has been raised so far. We need policies to support families and self-reliant people and to support businesses and not to destroy jobs. For this we need national emergency budgets that are serious, rigorous and that can square the accounts. Think about who you want to have next to you when the time comes to pay your debts. Our group reaches out to them at a time of responsibility for the good of all Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a test of resistance from our citizens. As always, the Spaniards will be up to it and we will set an example. When we talk about ourselves, optimism is realism with trials, because there is nothing else to look back to know that we will go forward, as we have done, as we always do when we shake hands. We'll move on as we've always done when we've given our hand. Not so long ago, we overcame two world wars and were able to set up the European Union; we overcame a civil war and forty years of dictatorship; we were able to build an exemplary democracy that has brought the greatest period of peace, freedom and prosperity in our history. Ladies and gentlemen, we are a great country. Let us draw that conclusion from this crisis and try to remember it every time we return to this rostrum. Let us give the Spaniards the best tribute we can give them; let us be the echo of their union, let us bow our shoulders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u80	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u81	Thank you, Madam President. We were moving forward last week that we considered the social and economic measures taken to address the consequences of the clearly insufficient coronaviruses, at least in terms of the protection of the most disadvantaged sectors of workers and self-employed, insufficient if not unfair, because clearly unfair for Galicia are the criteria for sharing the Extraordinary Social Fund. Ours is a country with an ageing population and a dispersed habitat that increases the cost of services, and that is why, even though the priority goal at the moment must be to protect one of the most vulnerable sectors, that of the elderly, this criterion only weighs 2.3 against 90 % of the population. And equally harmful to Galicia is that 1,3 % that weighs the dispersion. The imbalance between the criteria is such that in the end they will not receive more funds who need them most. Unfortunately, it rains on wet because this is a problem that Galicia historically drags into all the financing processes that depend on the State. Unfair is also the government's option to speed up ERTs. There are already almost 18 000 ERTE workers in Galicia and more than 95 000 workers in Galicia, all of whom are suffering a loss of wages because it was not even planned to be supplemented by public aid and a loss of extras and holidays. The BNG argued and argued that we should choose to ensure the maintenance of employment, labour rights and wages, as countries in our environment did, of course, by banning dismissals for economic reasons during the health emergency period and by economically supporting small and medium-sized enterprises to maintain wages. We defend and advocate more resolute economic support for the self-employed, who have had to cease their activity, as other countries are doing. Also suspend the payment of rents, both of private individuals and businesses forced to close, and economic support to deal with them, as well as the costs of basic services: water, gas or electricity. We defend and advocate condoning the payment of mortgages for at least four months for all those affected by the loss of employment and income. And it must also be done, because it is a matter of justice, in connection with the bank rescue, to the more than 60 billion unrecovered euros that we all pay. It is time for these public resources to revert to public benefit, for banks to pay and for Bourbons to pay, of course. In our view, it is urgent and necessary, because the public administration must set an example, to act to ensure that companies providing outsourced paralyzed services maintain all staff and to perceive the equivalent of salary costs, as well as to withdraw the troop replacement rate to strengthen public services. We also call for the extension of protection measures to specific sectors, such as those of domestic workers, and the coverage of unemployment on the same conditions for persons on temporary contracts or ETTs who have already been dismissed since the beginning of the crisis, as well as for appropriate application to sectors such as fisheries and shellfish, which are so important in Galicia and are suffering a sharp fall in prices and therefore in income. We understand that in this context it is necessary to repeal the financial stability legislation, as well as the 2011 constitutional reform that supports it, and to amend the state budget stability legislation, as it greatly limits the investment and improvement capacity of the public services of the Galician Administration and the councils. What we really do not understand is that in this context they have not even agreed to review the deadlines of the quarterly VAT declarations ending on 20 April or of the IRPF - not even for health reasons to avoid the risk of contagion in managers and financial institutions - or to have the self-employed, mostly confined to their homes, receive at their bank the March quota. It is not fair and it is sad to think that the coronavirus does not give truce and it seems that Hacienda neither. In short - and I conclude - we believe that it was and is necessary to take more ambitious and determined measures to ensure that this crisis is not paid once again by the workers themselves; that, in the face of the fall in income in business and families, a genuine shock plan was and is needed to protect the most vulnerable in this emergency situation and to lay the foundations for future recovery. That is why, while taking into account the difficult context in which we are going to facilitate this decree to be validated, we are not going to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[An employee of the cleaning service proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you very much, Pilar. For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mr Errejón Galván.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, you will allow me before I begin to greet all the neighbours of Spain and, first of all, my neighbours. On my street in five minutes, they'll applaud. I haven't missed a day on the balcony to clap. Today there will be a lot of people coming out and doing it in a very hard week, in a difficult week, in a week where we are assuming data that will be very hard. I want to remind my neighbours and all the neighbours of Spain that the most difficult moments are those that often tempt a village, that bad days are going to pass and that we are going to get out of this. An anecdote of an American feminist anthropologist, Margaret Mead, was told that one day a student asked her what was the first sign of civilization in a society, what was the first sign of civilization. The students made quinielas about whether it was the plow, a hook, a sharpening stone or the discovery of fire. The teacher responded by saying that the first sign of civilization that she could date in a society was a femur bone that had fractured and then healed, because it was impossible for a femur to have healed if it was not with the help of someone. In communities without civilization a femur that breaks down supposes that one cannot seek water, get food or flee from predators. The first healed femur indicated that, for the first time, in humanity we were not unknown to each other, but that we had institutions of solidarity that also cared for those who had had bad luck or the weakest. That's exactly the challenge we have ahead of us today. Today we do not have the choice to save ourselves from this situation individually or collectively; even by individual selfishness, the only rational way out is the way out in common. It is impossible to get out of this if it is not with a strong state, if it is not with a strong community, if it is not retrogressing in some of the mistakes we made in the years of the previous crisis, mending them and moving forward with measures to ensure that we take care of ourselves. I know there are a lot of people who don't like to use war metaphors. - It's true that we're not waging a war of violence or bullets; it's not about killing more people, it's about saving lives, but it's true that we're waging a sustained effort. It's not a natural catastrophe that happens in a day, it's a sustained effort. It is an effort that we can only get out of if we can bring all our hands together above any particular interest, and it is an effort that the next day will bring us to the reconstruction of everything that has been destroyed. It is already a consensus that this must be done whatever it takes, that this must be done no matter what. Both on the health front to save lives and on the economic front to protect families and businesses and to ensure that after the health crisis we do not have to wait for a second crisis we must do everything in our hands. The numbers of the health crisis - it has already been said: about 3,500 dead and about 50,000 infected - scare us and tell us that much more needs to be done. The economic impact figures already point to devastating: 2.5 points of GDP lost in the euro area, up to 12% reduction in gross domestic product in Spain this quarter and about 100 000 jobs lost every day in the first week of confinement. I would have liked the European Union to understand this, I would have liked the European Union to have taken more of its part in alleviating this situation and in creating an ambitious plan that would enable us to deal with this crisis, basically because if we need the European Union, it is exclusively for this. We create the European Union for moments like this; I hope the European Union will realise this, but if it does not realize that the Spanish Government will have to make the decision to anticipate and go further, both on the health front, stopping all the production that is not immediately essential for the country's support - today two workers of the Municipal Bus Transport Company of Madrid have died because they do not have enough protection, we have to stop it and ensure that those who work, do it fully protect - as on the economic front. A week ago in a plenary like this, but with a little less people I used the metaphor that we needed to launch a Marshall Plan to talk about a metaphor: we have to rebuild what will be destroyed during these months of confinement, during these days so hard in social and economic terms. At that time it seemed like a stifling thing, there was even one who called it an eccentricity and radicalism, and today it is in everyone's mouth. That is good news, but it is not enough that it is in everyone's mouth, it must be implemented; the Marshall Plan involved the mobilisation of around 5% and 6% of the gross domestic product each year for the reconstruction of the economies in Europe. The Government's project involves the mobilization of 1.4% of gross domestic product. It's okay for us to mention the Marshall Plan, but we have to multiply by five to be up to it. Today, the Bank of Spain publishes data on the impact of tax measures on gross domestic product: Germany mobilises 3.5%, South Korea 2,9%, Spain 1,4%. We have to multiply by five because now there is no other alternative. We are witnessing a curious phenomenon in which neoliberalism, once a triumphant ideology, today withdraws and simply does not appear. Today no one hears about the need to cut more in health care or residences; no one tells us that the private is more effective; no one hears about the need to liberalize more markets. The invisible hand of the market is neither expected nor its strongest defenders say anything about it today. Today it seems that they are simply not and do not appear. Carl Schmitt said that the rule does not explain anything, that it is the exception that explains everything. Well, it turns out that in times of emergency, what are we going to do? In times of emergency, we need a stronger state, we need more public services, we need a stronger community, we need institutions that care for us and we need to imbue the market by putting an end to speculation, in order to guarantee life and protect society. With this consensus, with the empirical learning that the measures of 2008 were not enough - in fact, they were counterproductive, they were rather a 'take the money and run' to rescue some who today wash their hands and do not want to rescue the rest -, with a consensus in society, with a consensus among the experts, with many resources - let me say that when we are united and we are clear something, it is clear that there are resources, it is clear that there are resources; never as to today has been so evident immediately, nakedly political the economy, that when we need resources these resources exist -, with all these conditions, what is needed is determination - I said in this very forum - at least as in Italy or France. Everywhere, everywhere the crisis is hitting, we see the most furious market fanatics rushing to embrace measures of character and socialist orientation. It would be ironic, and you will agree with me, that a government led by the Socialist Party, when the neoliberals run to call for socialist measures, would be late, weeks later, and could have alleviated much suffering. Why do I say that the measures are insufficient? First of all because we have to stop everything, and in order for everyone to stop everyone has to be able to stop with the tranquility that while the Spaniards are being held in prison the state takes care of them. And secondly, because if the landscape that we find ourselves next is not devastating, it takes a more ambitious policy, not for me to like it, not for More Country or Equo to like it, but for us to be here next week discussing the obvious, because we can lose a week but families can sometimes not lose a week, the self-employed can not lose a week, those who have been fired from their work cannot wait a week, and for us to anticipate and not go behind the crisis. We're going too late on rents. It is necessary to cancel the rents of those paying vulture funds, multi-owners or banks. We're going too late. We're late for layoffs; it's okay to recommend to companies that they don't fire, but they must be banned from firing. We must ensure that no one is left without any income, and that is done with basic emergency income...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u84	Mr. Errejón, excuse me. It is eight o'clock and, as representatives of the citizens, I think we would do well to join all those who are on the balconies and on the windows. [[Prolonged applause, with the House set up]] Thank you. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u85	It said that protective measures are essential for self-employed people, even if they have not suffered losses above 75%, of suspending their quotas, their contributions, their rents, and that it is essential that we learn from this and that we apply 135 backwards, a minimum income floor for public health, which is already sufficiently beaten. We are at the tail of Europe; after many cuts we are at the tail in beds, we are at the tail in places available in the ICUs and we are at the tail in per capita expenditure. Germany invests almost twice as much as we do. And when you talk about how much public income has to be mobilised, you have to be honest and you have to tell where it's going to come from, because if you don't tell where it's going to come from, it's possible that then it turns into cuts behind the backs of working families. All of Spain understands today that it is necessary to tie the shoulder, which is a time to tie the shoulder. Now there is a debate that has opened, in my opinion somewhat fictitious, on the philanthropy of billionaires and the lists of how much billionaires donate are made public. It seems good to me that anyone who wants to, especially if he has a lot of margin, will give whatever he likes. In a serious country, that is done through the welfare state so that we can calculate. And you don't have to make up very strange things. Actually, there are some who want to go back to the alms and the Middle Ages, but you don't have to invent very strange things. I propose a very simple system so that the millionaires can help save lives, that they donate regularly according to what they have, donate it in advance and, thus, instead of having to open pavilions quickly and running we can inaugurate hospitals. I have not just discovered the moon, they are simply called taxes and the richest people in this country need to start paying them. From More Country and Equo we will support these measures; we seem insufficient, but one step is better than none, and we feel that more steps are needed. It seems to us that our vote in favour must be a vote that is an invitation to move further forward, to row together and also not to waste more time, because in this case time is gold and every week is key. We believe that the government has to decide one thing fundamentally: whether it manages a crisis or two. And in order not to manage two, we must not make the mistakes of 2008, we must move forward and we must ensure that while people are confined to the uncertainty of confinement they do not have the anxiety not to know if they will be able to pay the bills, whether they will have a job waiting for them when they get out of this situation. The Spanish people, in our opinion, are giving a magnificent lesson to be up to the task; it is up to the Spanish Government to be up to the task of its people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you very much. Mr Rufián Romero has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u87	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President-third, we said it last Wednesday and we repeat it today too: let us start from a base and record it on fire: the health crisis, this health crisis, will pass, but the economic crisis will prevail. And I think we have to start telling people - it's part of our obligation to tell people even those things that they don't want to hear - that given the abyss, the economic precipice that we face, if we don't tackle it from now on, if we don't deepen it from now on, if we don't extend from now on the measures that announce these royal decrees, which involved Lehman Brothers, unemployment, inequality, the misery that put all that into it, the crisis-stage of the year 2008, will remain in a child's play. And, I repeat, we must start telling people and above all begin to find solutions. Everything has changed; in the future, all our differences, partisan political miseries, will stand aside, no longer matter. With great respect for the partisan struggles and political struggles of each one, one will prevail above all: the best policy will be the one that best gives answers to the misery that will come after all this. And it won't be enough - it won't be enough - with four or five gentlemen with twenty medals in their chest every morning doing cheap patriotism, and above all it won't be enough alone - and thank you - the applause at eight in the afternoon on the balconies or the one we just gave here today. These people we just applauded, the health professionals, not only need applause, they need means. And they shouldn't be heroes, they should be professionals with means, no more or less. Thus, from Esquerra Republicana we propose a whole package of shock measures in the field of the fight against the virus and above all in the field of the fight against the economic and social repercussions that will result from it; all of them are either not yet covered by the government or are expanding the measures that are presented here today. One, urgent suspension of the rent payment for the groups most affected by this crisis; suspension of the rent payment, especially those that are being paid to banks and vulture funds, as well as compensation to small tenants. 75% of evictions in this country are by tenants. Don't turn your back on reality. Two, suspension of the payment of basic services such as electricity, water and gas. It is not enough to announce a ban on cutting off such supplies to the most vulnerable groups. Half of these invoices, regardless of consumption or production, are fixed costs and there is already an avalanche of applications to suspend such payments. Let's give you an answer. Three, ban on layoffs. It is not enough to recommend not to fire. Six out of every 100 Catalan workers, for example, are already unemployed by an ERT, more than 200,000, and this has only just begun. It is not enough to speed up the recovery of the unemployment benefit and ensure that it does not affect the recovery of the future benefit. We believe that, as other countries in our environment have already done, it is possible to give security and emotional and social stability to the workers of this country. In short, they must be sure that whatever happens, they will not lose their jobs. Four, a general and direct moratorium on social security contributions payments from the quota of self-employed persons as well as on the postponement of the period of payment of own taxes, such as VAT; let us let go of the small and medium-sized enterprises or we will simply be left without them. Five, an income of confinement - I repeat, an income of confinement -, a guaranteed income of citizenship from now on for people in vulnerable situations during this confinement. In the United Kingdom, people with little suspicion of being communist, are already on the table preventing the coming economic paradigm shift. Well, we here today propose an immediate income during the confinement for the most vulnerable groups with the aim of extending it to tomorrow, the day after, in a universal manner. The left has been waiting too long for the day to be able to implement this. Well, that day has come. If we let the families fall, there will be no country to raise; if we let the people fall, there will be no flag to raise. In Catalonia, our colleague Constellera Dolors Bassa, today unjustly imprisoned, has already launched something similar, and from here, by the way, I send a hug and a kiss to all our fellow unjustly imprisoned. Six, a solidarity tax on confinement, an extraordinary, solidarity and temporary tax on all those digital companies and distribution and distribution intermediaries that are seeing their turnover increase exponentially these days. We are talking, for example, about a time-limited tax - I repeat, what the confinement lasts - to digital distribution platforms, such as Glovo, which, I repeat, would last what the confinement lasts. Seven, a solidarity tax, extraordinary and permanent for the great fortunes. As Íñigo Errejón has mentioned before, if this sounds bad to you from the tax on big fortunes, call it a forced donation, which may sound better to you, but put a tax on big fortunes during this time. Already during the crisis-stage of 2008 it was discussed. I remember people like Warren Buffett or Bill Gates proposed it. Here we have immensely rich people who could also help. It's just that those who have the most help those who have the least right now more than ever. Eight, use the surplus of the municipalities even more. In 2008 alone, the municipalities declared more than EUR 6 billion in total surplus - EUR 6 billion - and in these royal decrees it is only envisaged that they will be able to deal with this crisis 300. Insufficient; it seems to us insufficient. We are talking about money that is about citizenship and that simply because of political fear or fiscal rigidity is in a bank and not in social aid programs at the local level. Let us strengthen the first and best policy in the world; let us strengthen the policy that really wants and can change people's lives; let us strengthen the first door to which citizenship will be directed; let us ultimately strengthen municipalism. Let us already change and relax the Law on Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability for Muscle Management in the light of what comes next. So, at least, you'll ask for it Republican Left this very week. Nine, cash and sound. Of the €200 billion in economic and social investment against the effects of the coronavirus you announced the other day, 117 000 are public, 83 000 are private and only - I repeat, only - 17 000 are directed solely and entirely at vulnerable groups. We are talking about 8.5% of the total, 200 000, the rest are guarantees, moratoriums or private resources. Ladies and gentlemen, let us stop cheating in solitary. An urgent and direct injection of resources is absolutely essential for the economy and for the people. If we waited for the day to speak without a rhetorical sense of a Marshall Plan, that day has also arrived. Ten, an extraordinary financial benefit to compensate those in charge today of family members affected by the closure of educational establishments or of the elderly who, therefore, cannot work. It is not enough to exonerate their businesses from social security contributions and force them to accept their absence, but rather to pay, rather to help these people more than ever for their family reconciliation. Eleven, extending aid to self-employed people. There are three million self-employed people in this country, half a million in Catalonia alone, and none - I repeat, none - of the aid envisaged by the Government to try to alleviate the reduction or cessation of its activity during all this time should, as some of them are envisaged, be below the inter-branch minimum wage and we advocate that at least this aid should be above it. The Commission has already put the whole of the essential industry available at the service of the manufacture of health equipment at the disposal of all the essential industry available at the service of the manufacture of health equipment, thereby preventing the State from having to go exclusively to a market which is currently hyper-speculatory and inflationary, such as the sale of health equipment. Thirteen, to relax the limitation of portability in cases that are not face-to-face, this limitation seems to us protectionist towards the big companies and punitive towards the small ones, as denounced this same week by the Catalan telecommunications company Parlem Telecom. [[The lady]] Fourteen, put hostels and hotels at the service of those who don't have a home. We've been asking people to confine themselves to their homes for weeks, forgetting that there are people who don't have a home to confine themselves to. In this regard, the Generalitat has already begun to take steps in coordination with other entities to address it. All these measures have two objectives as simple as clear. The first is to provide more liquidity to the self-employed and SMEs to support the productive tissue during this period. And, two, let no worker lose his job, let no one stay behind. Too many people in too many crises have been abandoned, let this not be one more. We said it the other day and we repeat it again today: twelve years ago we did not doubt a minute to rescue the bank worth 60 billion euros; now we ask that we do not doubt a minute to rescue the people, ladies and gentlemen. Our duty is not only to protect people from infection or a virus, it is also our duty to protect people from eviction, dismissal or misery. Let's not forget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you very much, Pilar. For the Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Guijarro García.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u89	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin by joining the solidarity that has already been shown in that rostrum towards those affected and their families. I am also grateful, of course, for the work of health professionals, the State Security Forces and Corpses, the Armed Forces, as well as of all those who are in some way contributing their efforts to the solution of this situation that we are experiencing. And I also want to thank especially the workers of the Congress of Deputies for their effort, which today allows us to have this debate under consumable conditions, if not we could not be here. Turning already to the subject that affects us, I want to start by talking a little bit about the context in which we are in. Given the exponential worsening of the situation we have experienced in recent days, I believe that we all share a certain sense of lag by discussing the measures contained in this package of three royal decree-laws adopted a few days ago. We find ourselves in this acceleration of historical time that some social scientists have described regarding the convulsed periods: every hour is a Rubicon, every day is a definitive battle, every week is a century. Therefore, if anyone could qualify the measures that we validate today as excessive at the time of their approval, they hardly seem to be from Perogrullo analyzed from the perspective of here and now. That is why I note that the debate on these measures no longer focuses so much on their relevance as on their sufficiency. It is known that the Government has been taking a series of measures, embodied in these royal decree-laws on two major fronts, as the situation progressed. Already Minister Calviño has degenerate and detailed the same, but I just want to outline some of them. On the one hand, to address the first line of defence against the pandemic and thus strengthen the National Health System, for example, through the centralized and massive purchase of health and non-health supplies, also through the control of the prices of certain medicines or through the provision of additional resources for the autonomous communities. But there is also a second front, which is one that has been opened up to mitigate the economic and social effects of this crisis that is barely beginning to express itself with all its cruelty, especially in those traditionally most vulnerable sectors of our society. In this regard, I would like to focus mainly on the measures taken to deal with these sectors, which are the most concerned of my parliamentary group. Firstly, I should like to refer to the workers, as well as the self-employed. With regard to the former, the mechanisms associated with the temporary employment regulation dossiers are relaxed, the rules on access to unemployment insurance for these cases are relaxed and time suspended so that they do not compute for maximum periods. Conciliation measures are also established to care for families affected by the virus and teleworking is facilitated through the computer tools developed by Red.es, as well as the provision of an ICO credit line worth about 200 million to finance the non-personal digital adaptation of SMEs. In the case of self-employed persons, an extraordinary termination benefit is created which aims to cover the completion of the activity caused by an involuntary situation. On the other hand, this group will also be able to benefit from the 100 billion euro guarantee line announced by the Government in order to avoid a shortage of circulation, as well as the maturity of tax and financial obligations. The payment of certain taxes, equivalent to a three-month deficit, is also suspended in order to avoid treasury problems. As regards small and medium-sized enterprises, in addition to benefiting from the lines of guarantee and the tax suspension mentioned above, the exemption of 75% of business shares to social security is approved, which will become one hundred per cent for enterprises with fewer than fifty workers. The ICO's borrowing capacity is also expanded by some EUR 10 billion, as the minister has already announced, which will undoubtedly facilitate access to credit for these companies. The validated measures also place special emphasis on the tourism sector, one of the sectors most affected by this extraordinary situation. In this sense, the so-called Thomas Cook route to access finance is opened, which is extended by some EUR 200 million to the 200 already planned, as is the bonus for those fixed workers who are discontinuous in the sector. But there are many Spanish families who are overwhelmed by this situation and who require the determined help of the State for their survival. That is why I would like to highlight first of all the provision of an extraordinary social fund of 300 million euros, which will be channelled through the autonomous communities, for the support of social services, while at the same time releasing the surplus of local corporations for an equivalent amount to finance those social services that depend on them. A fund of 25 million is also set up to cater for the feeding of children from vulnerable families, a key element, since the closure of schools and their dining rooms has a decisive impact on the well-being of these families. Also, with the aim of meeting the acute needs of families, a moratorium is established on the payment of mortgage contributions, which is in addition to the measures already adopted in the first Royal Decree-Law 6/2020, which already extended the concept of vulnerability and extended its maturity to 2024. As I said at the outset, no one can doubt the relevance or urgency of these measures. If we are to ask ourselves, as other speakers have already done here today, what further, more radical, more incisive measures must be taken in the face of the relentless progress of this crisis. For example, in the area of housing, what measures should be implemented for the many Spanish families living on rent, or also for those who are currently unemployed and whose search for employment has been abruptly interrupted by this abnormal situation. Similarly, self-employed people continue to suffer from very specific problems despite the measures mentioned above for this segment and will surely need to be deepened into solutions for them. Today we have heard some proposals from some of the speakers. I am referring specifically to the spokesman for Citizens who has proposed several batteries for the autonomous segment, and I believe that some of them deserve this Government to study them. I am now also going to introduce a reflection on the political debate that we are holding that has to do with the structural conditions on the part of the State to deal with critical situations such as those we are experiencing today, an argument that has already been outlined in some way by my colleague Enrique Santiago in his previous speech and also by some other speakers. In this regard, I would like to denounce that the policies of cutbacks and austerity that have governed in recent years have substantially weakened our capacity for collective response, first and foremost in the area of health. It is worth recalling the fateful four consecutive years of reduction in health expenditure, between 2010 and 2014, four consecutive years of cuts, ladies and gentlemen, which have left us with 2180 beds less for health care than we had in 2009. So far only four autonomys have equaled or exceeded their historical peaks reached before the cuts, all the others - all the others - are below. But not only has our health care system suffered. According to Eurostat data, the burden of social protection spending on GDP, the safety net that defines a welfare state, has fallen with respect to 2009. In this sense, if we had 24.2% in 2009, we are currently at 23%. This shows that growth after the previous economic crisis has not been accompanied by an increase in social spending. In fact, if we exclude expenditure on pensions, we can see that the total expenditure on social protection is 15.4 % lower today than in 2009, which represents approximately 23.5 billion euros, which is said soon. Ladies and gentlemen, from the 1970s onwards, a new economic era, marked by deregulation and inspired by a perverse ideology called neoliberalism, began all over the world; an ideology that raised to the altars the mechanisms of the market and sought the systematic destabilization of State action. That era ends now, and it does not defeat it by the collective and conscious action of the billions of people who have been harmed by this dogma in recent decades. In a sort of irony parallel to that described by the British writer H.G. Wells in his famous novel The War of the Worlds the determining factor of the final outcome turns out to be microscopic. Even the former Minister of the Economy, Mr De Guindos, in an obvious crisis of faith, is now aiming at a minimum living income, which was as you know a flag of my political formation and which is currently being discussed in the Council of Ministers. One of the executors of the austerity plans passed now to convert. Who'd say! The most disciplinary economists calling for the suspension of the Leonine restrictions on the public accounts that they themselves helped to promote or promote directly. There would definitely be the following epitaph on the slab of neoliberalism: it only brought us suffering and helplessness. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you very much. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u91	Thank you very much, President. Once again I would like my first words today to be of remembrance to all the people who died from this virus and, in particular, to our elders who are dying in circumstances that none of us could have imagined. From here we send a warm embrace and our condolences to all their relatives. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in dark times, times of enormous responsibility, and also times of fear, of justifiable fear. That is why I fully understand that as this day approached we have observed a trend among some who tell us that in times of crisis we must close ranks around the government, omitting any criticism and applauding each of Mr Sánchez's interventions. But it is that the Spanish called VOX to play a very important constitutional role in democracy called opposition. Article 116 of the Constitution, in regulating the state of alarm, recalls the importance and central role that Congress must play in providing control of the Government in this exceptional situation, in stating that Congress must be convened immediately for this purpose and underlining the need for parliamentary control. And for that it is here VOX, to fulfill its obligation, with loyalty, but above all with loyalty to the Spanish; with loyalty to all the Spanish regardless of what other groups do, because the Spanish deserve at least one party to oppose this government and exercise that control. As the Secretary-General of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Macarena Olona, said recently, at a historic moment when the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards have been severely limited, when the Executive has extraordinary powers and when we play our lives, it is precisely at that moment that the controls proper to our rule of law should be stronger. So today we have a legal and moral obligation to denounce that the Government is coming late and wrong. VOX is going to fulfill patriotism, because it is good for you to hear something more than applause, because exercising the opposition responsibly always stimulates a better behaviour of governments. But we also have a moral obligation to denounce any attempt to take advantage of this crisis to weaken our rule of law and democracy with those goals that try to cover us when others are dedicated to making this crisis have the least health and economic impact possible for Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing the harshest health and economic threat ever experienced by Spain. This is a serious, first-class problem. Moreover, this situation occurs at a time when our country is neither in macro nor microeconomic conditions to address a shock of supply and demand that can lead to massive destruction of production and employment, because, unfortunately, once again, the crisis has found us without the duties done. We are surprised at the crisis at a time when the recession was already at the door, and once again, by the irresponsible policies of a socialist government. Since the arrival of this government, Spain's economic growth has only slowed down, private consumption had stagnated, foreign investment had plummeted by more than 60% compared to last year, unemployment had increased again in the second and third quarter of 2019 and redundancies had fallen by 54.7%. All this before the arrival of the coronavirus. If socialcommunist policies in normal situations bring recession, unemployment and poverty, today with the coronavirus the wrong policies or even the insufficiency in the right policies can last us for a long time. Nevertheless, I am optimistic, and I am because I firmly believe in the ability of the Spaniards to react to adversity. I believe in the creative and entrepreneurial strength of our traders, our self-employed, our workers, our small and medium-sized enterprises, I believe in the resilience of Spain. But I don't believe in magic realism, we leave that to the Spanish-American authors. Things don't happen without causes. So I think Spain can recover, but only if you today start to turn 180 degrees to your priorities and start to renounce any measure that translates into an increase in the regulatory, fiscal and social burdens already borne by businesses and people. Madam Vice President, remind your partner the Minister of Finance that a nation that tries to achieve more prosperity on the basis of taxes is like a man stuck in a cube trying to get up from the wing, it doesn't work! Give up also any initiative that pursues the increase in public spending beyond what requires the strengthening of our health and economic response. We are faced with a fall in supply which is going to result in an ostensible loss of turnover and revenue generation for Spanish companies, with a special impact on small and medium-sized enterprises which are, as you know, the engine of our national economy. They are going to face serious liquidity problems that cannot be solved by a very stressed banking system, with limited capacity to help. Precisely, a contraction of the economy and its reducing impact on the income of companies can not only deprive them of the liquidity necessary to meet their daily operations, but will also trigger their lateness, with a negative effect on the already weakened financial position of the bank. If this dynamic is not prevented, the economic crisis will also result in a banking crisis and a deep recession. The economic policy strategy against an epidemic with systemic implications must be designed and programmed from the Government of the nation, becoming the role of autonomous governments a purely consultative role and ultimately a role in implementing the measures agreed upon by the central Government. Today we will support the real decrees-laws 6/2020 and 7/2020, although they seem clearly insufficient. They did not listen to us when we spoke to them weeks ago about urgent measures such as border control, the recovery of health as state competition, the taking of control of the autonomous communities or the putting into action of an armed forces to which you have never had much affection. In the end they did everything, but too late unfortunately for Spain. We hope that today we will be given a little more attention with the additional measures we propose to them so that they will not be so late in implementing them. Basically, the most urgent measures must be based on maintaining employment and facilitating the liquidity of the system; employment and liquidity, Madam Vice-President, these are the two keys. Dismissal must be the last resort and maintaining employment must be the priority of all. We lack a more ambitious government effort to keep all possible jobs in place so that Spain does not stop, the talent of the Spaniards cannot stop. Therefore, in order to safeguard as many jobs as possible, we propose to add to your decree immediately and for at least three months after the end of the pandemic the 75% bonus of social contributions for businesses for the duration of the crisis, as well as the exemption of payment of the quota for all self-employed. Before we even look for liquidity injection mechanisms, we have to prevent that liquidity from coming out of SMEs, which account for more than 90% of our productive tissue. It would make no sense to remove the water from a plant to water it once it is dry, what must be avoided is the drying of the plant. We therefore propose to add to its measures the following: to relieve companies by extending the deadline for filing tax returns, which runs from March to April until 15 May; to postpone VAT collection and deductions from personal labour and leases from April to October in order to avoid cash outflows to self-employed persons and SMEs; to postpone the payment of the monthly VAT from March, April and May for large enterprises; to abolish the payment on 20 April of company tax and the payment on behalf of the IRPF for self-employed persons; to reduce the type of company to 12,5 % for this financial year 2020 and to extend the deadline for payment of this tax to 2019, at least until 25 September this year; to deduct from the share of the company tax on the costs incurred by companies to take measures in their establishments to avoid the extension of the pandemic, so as to recover the 100 % tax on such expenditure; to exempt families from VAT and from their special taxes on their private consumptions % of water, gas and electricity consumption, and to reduce all of the costs of electricity by reducing them by means of their own consumption. The urgency, priority and focus of our efforts right now is that the lack of liquidity does not destroy our productive fabric and that we get out of the crisis with as many companies as possible, that is, with as many jobs as possible. An effort to provide liquidity that the Government must extend to local entities. We therefore believe that the Government should agree with them on the release of the surplus generated in municipalities throughout Spain and the adoption of measures aimed at reducing municipal taxes for this year: IBI, garbage rates, public domain occupancy rates on terraces and municipal taxes for all traders. In that challenge to ensure liquidity, of course, we have to involve the bank with measures such as suspending the payment of the capital part in the mortgage repayment quota, while the state of alarm lasts and in the following three months, extending the maturity period for the time that such payment is suspended. To give an example: a mortgage loan of 1 % of EUR 150 000 remaining for twelve years is currently generating a monthly receipt of EUR 1105; during the period of this exceptional measure, the receipt would pass only the interest on the loan and would be only EUR 125 per month, that is to say, we would be releasing for that family an amount of EUR 980 per month for this extraordinary period. That is to inject liquidity based on preventing it from coming out of the reach of the families themselves. Similarly, we must allow the rescue of pension funds and savings plans without tax penalty, in order to alleviate the tensions of treasury in households, as they may be necessary to meet basic needs. Your Honor, Spain is going to face inexorably an increase in spending due to the management of the crisis. That is precisely why the Administration must make an effort to eliminate unnecessary political spending in order to deal with this crisis, and that is only achieved by an immediate audit of public spending that will allow us to identify those superfluous, disposable items, in a context like the current one, and believe me, there is a lot of unnecessary spending. In fact, this government is like the digestive organ of a baby: a lot of appetite at one end and no responsibility at the other. To start by setting an example, we call for the immediate cessation of all subsidies to political parties, trade unions or employers. Madam Vice-President, if we do not take measures to contain unnecessary expenditure we already know how this story will end, because we have already lived with you in the government a similar thing: you will end up lowering the salaries of officials and freezing pensions. Although they did not want to incorporate any of our necessary proposals, I have already said that today we will support by responsibility the actual decrees 6/2020 and 7/2020, and that seems to us, as I have said, clearly insufficient. However, we cannot accept in any way the Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 because in it you do not renounce to deprive of liquidity our SMEs or the Spanish households and moreover, most seriously, what we are not going to admit and is included in the package, is that in this rule that theoretically urgent to give solutions to the systemic crisis that we are experiencing, you have sibily introduced a final disposition to legally protect Mr. Iglesias from becoming part of the CNI commission. This is an unacceptable mockery for the Spaniards, and as I know you know, Minister, I will no longer focus on it. Ladies and gentlemen, the rehumanisation of politics does not mean that Pedro Sánchez goes out on television every day and that everyone feels like anything he says or does, not even that we treat each other better; it means that we think more of the human beings who experience the consequences of the decisions we make, that politicians stop being a part of the problem and become a part of the solution, that we stop thinking of our elders as a hindrance and that we see them as the people who need us most and who need us most to protect, that we never again listen to an irresponsible policy to say that nature warns us that there are too many older people; that we stop thinking of our front-line professionals in this crisis as if they had superpowers and were able to deal with everything without means, only with their dedication, and that we start thinking more about them as human beings, human beings with greater capacity to sacrifice than others, yes, but that they require a minimum of attention. Our health workers, our security forces and bodies, our armed forces, and all the professionals who work in the front line on this front, have been telling us the same thing for a long time and we don't listen to them, and what they tell us is very similar to what Churchill told the Americans in World War II: Give us the tools and we will do the job. But without tools, without shields or weapons, we send our professionals to an unfair battle and an unequal battle. And if we have not sent them for lack of foresight, lack of management capacity or for whatever reason, let us at least have the humility to recognize it, let us at least have the humility to work to repair the situation, but let us not, as this Government is doing, deny the obvious and affirm that they have been provided with everything necessary, because that only adds an insult to the damage we are causing them. And, by the way, when all this is over, it will, of course, we will have to keep on taking care of those who have fought in the front line. Post-traumatic stress syndrome so widespread in veterans of war could somehow reproduce in all those who have spent weeks fighting this virus so intensely and so poorly equipped with the means and tools they needed. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, none of this comes out of the books of political theory that some and others study in the Faculty of Somosaguas. And that's the bad thing, that to become a good ruler it's better to reach the power provided with a certain dose of theory, of course, but above all having had some life experience, and to be possible having faced and overcome some difficulty, some challenge, some risk, of any kind. At the moment of truth, it is not useful to have been only an inventor of micro-offenses or artificial or imaginary causes, but it is advisable to have overcome a real, tangible, recognizable difficulty, because only with some previous experience of success in overcoming a real difficulty can future crises be faced with a minimum guarantee of success, especially if they attack us by flanks as real as those we are suffering these days. Warren Buffett, the head philanthropist on the far left, says that only when the tide comes down does it prove who was swimming naked. I am very afraid that the tide of the coronavirus is exposing the shames of more than one adanist and more than one, by the way, that is proving now that they are not to give lessons of anything, of nothing, neither here nor in Somosaguas. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few years' time, when all this has happened, the Spaniards will judge us, determine whether we have been up to the level required by these historical circumstances. I want to be able to tell my children and grandchildren that those of us who are temporarily engaged in VOX policy today contribute to our part and we did what had to be done, that when they asked us to be a mere comrade without any margin of criticism, we chose control, that is, that we assumed our responsibility, and that when we could, we chose to fight for our workers, traders and self-employed, for defending the legacy of our elders and the future of our young people, because it is they who, with their daily effort, have always taken Spain forward, above their worst rulers, in unity with all the Spaniards, because it is they who are going to do it again and because thanks to them we are going to recover Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u92	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u93	Good evening, Madam President, Vice Presidents. Ladies and gentlemen, in these sad hours of our lives, climbing to this rostrum is especially hard. Every two minutes a compatriot dies as a result of the coronavirus. Many families are suffering confined at home, making a kind of description of what their life has been, a retrospective description of the sacrifices of our grandparents, whom we cannot see right now, as we cannot see some of us to our children either. In this sense, that individual pain becomes a great mass, a great ocean of collective pain, and we have to be here precisely to turn that pain into great politics, so that the businessman of Castelldefels, the autonomous of Getaria or the fashion designer of Jaca can feel represented right now. In this regard, you can be sure that the People's Party will be, because we have been a governing party, because we have been a responsible party and because we have always shown that we can live up to the circumstances. But it is also true that when it comes to exercising a party, such as the People's Party, the opposition, we have to do it in a dignified way and we have to say things as they are, because obviously, if not, we would not. We do so in a constructive spirit and with the aim and intention that the Government can also add our pretensions, which are the pretensions of many millions of Spaniards, of those 47 million Spaniards who today do not, of course, have an intervention by the President of the Government, but a parliamentary session that they are listening to, eager to be able to call despair into hope, disappointment in illusion and above all that the loss of expectations of many of them becomes expectations again. There are two levels here, Madam Vice President. Of course we're all going to be together right now, it's a critical moment and it's hard times. Many will have taken the books from his library and read Dickens again, Tough Times. Do you know what Dickens' first sentence is?: 'Well, what I want are realities'. They're waiting for realities, they want to change, they want to leave their homes again, they want to embrace their families again. But, above all, they want to lift the blind again; that blind they had to cast sadly as a result of an evil they did not expect, that we did not expect, and against which we might have done something earlier if we had had some kind of rigour in anticipation. That is why I want to make it clear that we are going to support the three royal decree-laws. That's right, the last decreeley has a democratic anomaly, an ex-abrupt from the point of view of morality. When all Spanish citizens are seeking patriotic answers so that all public authorities can fight together to defeat this pandemic, there is a final disposition that will become a public offense in the history of Spanish laws, which is the one with which a vice president, like Vice President Iglesias, has sought through the back door to be part of the Commission of the National Center of Intelligence. It was not that intelligence that had to be sought then, it was the collective intelligence of the Spaniards, it was the individual well-being, it was the collective well-being. What need did they have to do that in the decree-law we're validating here right now? It was unnecessary at a time of pain, at a time of total suffering. We will therefore vote in favour, but we are going to propose that it be treated as a bill so that, at least, the error can be corrected and that the Socialist Party itself and its partners have the capacity to recognize that it was neither the time nor the place for such a debate. Secondly, as the Banco de España said, we are going to experience a moment of unmatched disturbance, a disturbance that is also going to be systemic, which is not going to be transitory, as you said, Madam Vice-President. On 4 March, four days before 8 March, Madam Vice-President, and when the World Bank already announced that there would be a global growth reduction of between 0.5 and 1.5%, you came to say that the impact on the national economy of the coronavirus was virtually irrelevant. [[The third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, Calviño Santamaría, makes negative gestures]] Unfortunately, that was the case, Madam Vice-President. We can see that, Madam Vice-President. Moreover, you in the last interview you had in El Mundo this weekend again said that there was no one who could see what the impact and magnitude of the problem was going to be. It was like that. Unfortunately, we haven't made the right diagnosis, Madam Vice-President, but it doesn't matter. It is a subject of diagnosis and analysis and we are now looking for solutions at a time when, as I say, the response has not been sufficient or temporary; indeed, the response has been completely out of time. They ask us for loyalty in one of the most critical situations in the history of Spain in the last eighty years. They are going to have it, but we tell them one thing: that loyalty is reciprocal and that, at least, they evade and avoid certain behaviors that certainly do not show great nobility or the height of sight necessary to be able to face this problem. Look, you guys, we've had to listen to a lot of things. Firstly, it is very easy to do politics now with a bias of retrospect. Politics is the art of anticipation. Politics is the art of being able to anticipate problems and react constantly and temporarily, and you have not. Don't talk about bias in anticipation when you really, as I say, didn't get to see the reality and magnitude of the problem. Their own ministers are denouncing them now. When Pedro Duque made those galactic statements and indicated that they were already prepared for what could come, he showed that you acted very late. We'll see about that. Of the three royal decree-laws, the first royal decree-law is passed on a Tuesday. The People's Party on Monday, a day earlier, had approved its decalogue to be able to tackle the coronavirus with effective economic measures. Do you know what you guys did that Tuesday? They passed a decree-law, which of course we will confirm and we will validate for liability - as it cannot be otherwise - with three measures essentially. First, it is proposed to suspend the mortgage enforcement proceedings against creditors for default of mortgages. By the way, it is a measure that did not introduce any left-wing government in this country, but introduced it by the People's Party in 2013. Secondly, a rule is introduced that can now be rock-and-roll, taking into account the magnitude of the problem and the situation and context in which we are talking: the possibility that certain credit institutions could have access to the financial legal status of banks. This is obvious, especially in view of the capital flight and the flight of the financial potential that might exist in the United Kingdom. But there was one measure, the only measure that really affected that Tuesday, March 10, two days after the famous March 8: the possible centralization of the hiring of sanitary and other materials in the Ministry of Health. Look, there is a basic rule in public management, but also in administrative management, and it is that when you make a decision to advocate certain competences, you must necessarily analyze whether you have management capacity, because the measure was probably done in good faith, but the operating result has not been the right one. An analysis will therefore have to be carried out over time to see what has happened and whether the Ministry of Health has sufficient size, management capacity and resources to implement this measure. And, if not, ask our health care providers, ask our administrations, ask all those who are demanding daily that this health care material reach the centres and, above all, reach the health care staff and those who really need it, who are the sick and their families. Secondly, two days later a new royal decree-law is passed. That royal decree-law really is the cloning of the decree-law that was used for the Thomas Cook crisis, expanding certain lines of help and incorporating some new ones. Let's look at them so they can see that we didn't get out of the traditional schemes to fight a crisis. Firstly, we applied 1 billion of the contingency fund, which is very good. By the way, I would like to recall that the Contingency Fund continues to derive from those laws on which I hear many of its allies right now say that it is necessary to repeal and it is still a mattress or fiscal margin deriving from a budget law adopted two years ago and extended further. Look, they propose as a star measure to anticipate deliveries on behalf of the autonomous communities for 28 billion euros. They are resources of the Autonomous Communities. It is true that they anticipate them, and if they had already introduced and approved the draft budget law, it could have been anticipated. But why don't you pay the $24 billion you owe? The Minister of Finance insistently refuses to pay the EUR 24 billion owed as a result of the change in the VAT information system. Do you know what the difference is? That if we now increase the financing, it is a transitional financing, because in 2022, when the liquidation of the autonomous financing system has to be done, as tax revenues will have fallen sharply, the autonomous communities will have to return all that money. However, if you had paid the $24 billion, which was actually their own right, because it was taxes that had been settled, I assure you that there would have been no problem, but on the contrary, economic rights would have arisen directly and could have been met directly. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that. You also considered as a positive step - and we too - the postponement of tax debts only for the six-month period, and the first three months with no interest payments. It was a good time to have extended the postponement to any obligation of public law, not only tax, but also social, and to any type of tax and to any type of tax burden of the entire Spanish tax system. They did not, but it was also time to extend the filing deadline for tax self-liquidations. We proposed it on 9 March. Right now is the time to postpone the periods for filing tax settlements. Do you really believe, Vice President, that at this time the main obligation of a person who lives in distress, confined to his home, must be to access the tax agency's computer system in order to make the declaration? Do you believe that there may be people who have insufficient knowledge to be able to make the statement and who cannot go to their tax manager to make it? What is the problem in postponing and extending the liquidation periods of the various taxes? But they didn't, and I think that would be a good step. And we arrived at the third decree-law. In the third decree-law you announced the star measure saying that it was 200 billion euros of resource mobilization, the greater mobilization of resources - in your opinion - in the history of democracy, but unfortunately it has not been so. They are 100 billion guarantees, ICO guarantees conditional on leverage of the resources that financial institutions can put into credit. What is our surprise when yesterday they hold the Council of Ministers and approve a first tranche of EUR 20 billion. You start from the principle of staggering, that is, you are putting in a group of financial resources with the aim of seeing how you are acting and in this way you are testing what the conditionality conditions or requirements are. Note that not even 200 billion were 20% of the resources, as the President of the Government said, were 16.5%, but that is that 20 billion euros represent almost 1.6% of GDP. It is not true that they have mobilised so many resources yet, but I ask you a question, Madam Vice-President. We do not yet know the agreement, it has not been published in the Official State Gazette. We hope to see it published, but today, of course, it has not been published. I understand that it was reasonably approved, that there is no problem, and I hope that it is not being negotiated, that negotiations with financial institutions have been reopened. We think that there are many measures in the Decree-Law and that is why we are going to support it, and that is because we already proposed them at the time, on 9 March, because we felt that we had to act temporarily, but there are many measures that are not included. Before I describe to you what measures should be included in the bloc, which, moreover, you are expanding - we would have liked you to have done so before, but we ask you, please, to do so if you have the opportunity and also to value our alternatives - I will ask you three questions. It would be enough for me to answer them. One. In situations of economic shock, whether arising from a war or a pandemic, three conditions must be met for decisions to be correct, which are immediacy, enforceability and effectiveness. Madam Vice-President, are we in a position to assure the Spanish that all measures will be immediate, that they will be enforceable and that they will be effective immediately, as soon as possible? Two. Madam Vice-President, given the situation of collapse or administrative pre-collapse that exists in some areas of management of the Spanish public sector arising from the situation we have, are there sufficient human and material resources to, for example, be able to meet the demand of ERTEs that are currently taking place in the public employment service? Three. In a situation of exceptionality such as the one we are living in, is the current legal and financial order, which is intended for the ordinary management of files, the order or the legislation most appropriate to be able to deal with such situations? It would be enough for me to answer these three questions, if it suits you, Madam Vice-President. I'm finishing up. I will make the proposals that we believe could be incorporated, so that they can be valued, because we agree on a large part of the measures that you have proposed. We proposed an injection of EUR 100 billion at the time, and you have done so. It seems very reasonable to us and, of course, we will support it. We have proposed the flexibility of ERTS, but we have proposed much more. We are proposing, for that block which is being absolutely damaged, that this country's 3 100 000 self-employed should be exempted from the quota of self-employed for this month, but not only that, but that it should also be examined whether this exemption for one month should be extended for months to come. We call for the reduction of at least 50% of corporate tax on all the companies that are affected. We call for an extension of the settlement period, both quarterly and monthly, for both large and small and medium-sized enterprises in the case of VAT. We call for an extension of the deadline for the submission of the personal income tax; for an extension of the deadline, so that those eight million Spanish taxpayers who can make the declaration and obtain the 13 billion return of IRPF can obtain them, but also those who have difficulties. We ask you to consider the possibility of rescuing pension funds. It is important at this time, when there has been a self-saving, to give the possibility, even with tax advantages, so that these investment funds can be deactivated. I'm done. Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you, Madam President. We're living in very difficult times. The People's Party will obviously have the greatest willingness to cooperate with you, but, I insist, we also ask for your responsibility, because there are some statements that have surprised us a lot over the last few days. Look, the state is a permanent ally of the public and the private; never forget that. When we talk about autonomous, we talk about private muscle; when we talk about business, we talk about private flow; when we talk about those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, we talk about people who decided to devote all their effort to developing an activity in this country, so that this country would be rich. You and me, Madam Vice President, a few years ago we started our career in office, you in one body and I in another in the same ministry, and I assure you that...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u94	Mr. Garcés, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u95	I'm done, thank you very much. We are officials to serve precisely those Spaniards, so that we can ensure that in this balance, sometimes blurred, between the public and the deprived, the economy of freedom of enterprise is kept alive in this country. I ask you, please, that this is not an opportunity for certain allies of your Government to consider that there is an open door for a change of economic model or model of freedom. Look - and I finish - there is an Obama advisor who said: every time there is an important economic crisis, democracy breaks down. Please avoid that through what we are experiencing during these weeks there is someone looking for fortune trying to change a model based on what is most important in the person, after health and life, which is freedom. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u96	Thank you, Mr. Garcés. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you, Catalina. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the obligation today, I would even say that the only decent thing today is to start each intervention by expressing our solidarity with the victims of the pandemic, with their families, with the professionals who are fighting in the front line of battle; by expressing our solidarity with all those who suffer and endure out there. I do not know about you, but I assure you that the only thing I expect from this house and from all of us here, in this debate and in all of today's debates, is that we know how to live up to our responsibility, at our duty, at what all these people there need and deserve from us. That's all I expect, that we know how to live up to. That is why we do not want to win any debate today, ladies and gentlemen. Today it's not about one of us getting an advantage over another of us; it's about everyone together getting an advantage over the common enemy, that enemy that threatens our lives and our families; it's about beating the virus together. That is the only political objective, at least the only legitimate political objective today. That is why we must work with perseverance, work according to the strategies that the experts are marking, with the maximum collaboration here, with communities, with municipalities, with our European partners, with the essential unity between the political leaders, with social discipline and with transparency. These are the recipes that work here and anywhere; there are no others, there are no better ones; there are no shortcuts; there are no magic formulas; there is no wise brother-in-law, a taumaturge who pulls us out of this in a flat fold. We must work with perseverance and listen to the experts. The three decree-laws that the Government brings to validation today respond to these sensible recipes precisely for three purposes: to strengthen the State in its fight against the virus, to protect workers, families, the most vulnerable in society at these difficult times and to ensure, as far as possible, a speedy and just reconstruction of our economy and our employment when this happens, which will happen. These are the objectives, they are the correct objectives, and the measures that include decree-laws are the same, so today we call for Congress' support for their validation. First, these decrees empower the Government to obtain the extraordinary resources with which to acquire health material, with which to derive precious resources from the health services of the autonomous communities and with which to promote scientific research for the vaccine and for the cure of the virus. These rules empower the Government to regulate the prices of health-care devices and to centralize purchases efficiently, which does not mean that the acquisition of equipment on its own has at any time been prohibited or restricted to any administration. It is clear that in a scenario of global demand and limited supply the Spanish Government has some extra possibility to access markets, to acquire with some advantage the products that our healthcare professionals need and to distribute them in an equitable and fair manner. That is what has been done; that is what is being done. Second, these decrees facilitate the availability of new resources and the release of own resources to finance social services, to better care for older persons and dependent persons, to ensure the feeding of children in vulnerable families. Discharge of electricity, gas, water is prohibited and a moratorium on the payment of mortgages to those affected by the coronavirus is approved. These are measures, ladies and gentlemen, which raise a genuine public shield against social insecurity; effective measures. There is also an extraordinary protection for workers by facilitating and speeding up the temporary employment regulation dossiers, the ERTEs. For what? For companies with difficulties to opt to temporarily suspend jobs before going to lay off. Thus, during the ERTE, companies will not pay social security contributions and workers will benefit from the unemployment benefit even if they have not contributed enough time. In turn, wage earners are allowed to reduce to 100 per cent of their time if necessary to meet the needs of reconciliation and care of their families at these difficult times. Self-employed workers affected by the crisis are also particularly protected. Tax payments are deferred to those who have to close. Those who see a drastic decrease in their billing do not have to pay social security contributions and also receive an extraordinary termination benefit. To protect self-employed workers; this is also the goal achieved by these Government decrees. Thirdly, measures to support economic activity, businesses, large and small are implemented in all sectors, with particular attention to those most affected, such as tourism. They are measures unparalleled in history by their nature and by their dimension. It is about small and large entrepreneurs being well prepared, well equipped to quickly rebuild the economy and employment as soon as we overcome the virus. A public guarantee line of up to EUR 100 billion is created, with additional guarantees of EUR 2 billion for SMEs and exporting companies, with extraordinary programmes to support R & D, digitisation and the implementation of work. We have been talking these days and we have been talking here today about a Marshall plan, a New Deal for Europe. Well, these resources that Spain is going to mobilize, together with the plans announced by the European Central Bank, together with the announcements made by the European Commission to stimulate demand, are probably the greatest mobilization of resources in the history of humanity; a gigantic effort that is being made with the aim of first defeating the virus and also overcoming the threat of recession, unemployment and poverty that is likely to follow. And it has to work, and it's gonna work. In short, the decrees clearly set the priority of the moment: to strengthen the State and the public services to double the virus. This is the priority among the priorities. There go the best efforts, all the necessary resources; whatever is needed, when it is needed and where it is needed, said the president, said our spokesman, and so it is being done. These decrees and other measures of the Government in the meantime protect the most vulnerable, those who need others to keep their families in decent living conditions. This time it will not happen as in the previous financial crisis, this time no one is left behind. There will be no winners and losers of the crisis. The virus is unfair to many people, because we cannot avoid it, but our response to the virus will not be unfair, because we can avoid it, and we will avoid it and we are avoiding it. With these decrees, the Government is also already working to ensure that the reconstruction of the destroyed economy, so that the recovery of lost jobs can take place as quickly, as effectively and as fairly as possible. That is why we insist so much that this will be a temporary crisis. We are not, as in 2008, faced with the paralysis of companies because companies are too indebted or not competitive or toxic bubbles have been inflated. No, companies now stop for the virus, and when the virus passes, those healthy and competitive companies have to regain activity and employment with the same vigour or with more vigour than before if it can be. This is the purpose of the historic, unusual effort being made by the Spanish Government and the institutions of the European Union. It's got to work and it's gonna work. I turn now very briefly to those who occasionally strive to throw away some false, sometimes unfair, sometimes even clearly opportunistic, criticisms of the Government at this critical moment. I don't really understand it, honestly. I don't understand. I do not understand these reliefs on the part of those who have a duty right now to maintain responsibility and temperance. But that I don't understand it doesn't matter much, I'm convinced that out there you don't understand by those who are playing life in the killed ones, by those who are at home distressed by the first symptoms. They don't understand these reliefs, because what they understand and what they deserve is unity, it's responsibility, it's loyalty, it's security, it's solutions. There will be time, said Mr Casado on some occasion - and I subscribe - to make analyses, assessments, criticisms; to demand responsibility for one another's behavior, for the government and for the opposition, for what he does and for what he does not do. It will be in its moment, now it touches what it touches: responsibility and unity. In any case, I would ask, Mr Garcés, for some restraint to which we could call the champions of anticipation, to those affected by the false 'I did see it coming' syndrome, to the 'I know how to predict the past' syndrome, because, Mr Garcés, the Government has not acted with arbitrariness, has always taken the measures as recommended by the experts and when recommended by the experts, according to the advice of the World Health Organization, of our scientists, of our health institutions, taking into account the facts of every moment. You insisted on three occasions on 8 March. Mr. Garcés, that's not true. You, on 8 March, did not ask to suspend any demonstration; moreover, you were there, there were the women of the People's Party with a motto of their own; moreover, that weekend the President of the People's Party had several massive acts. Mr Feijóo organized even some meals, rallies, with a very considerable attendance, days later, and I do not blame him, because I am not captain a posteriori, because I do not presume to predict the past. We're just asking for a little wisdom. By the way, also on 8 March, in addition to feminist demonstrations, there were five first-division football matches, five second-division football matches, the final of the Queen's Cup of Basketball, the final of the Spanish Cup of Football Hall, the final of the King's Balloon Cup; there were concerts, there were carnivals, there were masses, but only you reproach the manifestation of women's equality. We'll have to talk about this at some point too, Mr. Garcés, when you touch. [[Applauds]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros asks us for responsibility and rigor; they reproach us for responsibility and rigor from VOX. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, today you have registered an initiative to ensure that public health does not cater to immigrants who cannot afford it. We let them die? Is that responsibility and rigor? Is that the containment of the unnecessary expense you've told us about from the rostrum? Is this the Christian humanization of the politics they claim? Our elders, our elders, our elders, but if they have our HR and if they have money. What if I don't? Responsibility and rigour is what I ask of you. Do you know what patriotism is? Patriotism is to stand by the government when the government is fighting against the enemy of all; that is patriotism, not the bracelet, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Applauds]] It is understood that each Administration claims the health material it needs, we understand even the urgency, the demand, the impatience, of course. How will you not be impatient to receive the material you need? The Government is making an extraordinary, massive effort in a tense market, in a global market with many difficulties; it is acquiring and equally distributing millions of masks, respirators and testing. Impatience is understood, demand is understood, but lies are not understood, manipulation is not understood. It is not understood that there are requisitions when there are no requisitions, that there are retentions when there are no retentions, and it is understood less even when that attitude comes, in short, from Madrid, from Madrid! How long has the Minister of Health been in command for? Ten days? If Madrid's health was not prepared with a sufficient stock of masks and respirators to deal with this pandemic, whose responsibility will be greatest?Who has been in single command for ten days or who has been managing Madrid's public health for twenty years? [[Applauds]] We do not want to make reproaches, no, but, please, a little truth and a little loyalty is all we ask. Here there is only one enemy, the enemy is the virus, and there is only one way, the road is that of unity and that of loyalty. That's what we're asking, a little unity and loyalty. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u98	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, many things are changing at great speed, we get the best possible teachings, there are. We are learning to value some of our strengths as a society; for example, to what extent the most commendable values prevail, such as giving to others, solidarity with the vulnerable, collective responsibility. We also become aware of the flanks we have opened in recent years: cuts and privatizations that weaken our public services precisely when we need them most powerful. We are learning about some lies and some truths, some new and some not so new. We know today that borders are more lies than ever, because they do not help us stop our real enemies and do not allow us to defend the weakest among us. We know more than ever that we are community. We have discovered that this is an incontrovertible truth, because today the salvation of each one depends on the salvation of others, because we come out of this together or we do not come out, and we are community, indeed. We have learned that it is a lie that the money where it is best is in the pocket of the citizens; we have learned that the money where it is best is in the resources of the murdered hospitals and in the hands of the public professionals who protect us; we have learned that the relevant thing is to defend the health of our people and we have learned how irrelevant almost everything else is. Finally, at this dramatic moment, I am convinced that Spanish citizens are also learning quickly to distinguish between politicians who are equal to politicians who are not, those who exercise their functions with responsibility, unity, loyalty, and those who do something less, because out there, ladies and gentlemen, those whom we represent are now only conceiving an enemy, the virus, and only one objective, to overcome it. Let's do it in here too, it's got to work and it's gonna work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Simancas. Ladies and gentlemen, we are calling for a vote. We shall proceed to vote on the points discussed so far in three minutes. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 4/2020 of 18 February, repealing the objective dismissal for lack of labour assistance provided for in article 52(d) of the consolidated text of the Act on the Status of Workers, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 23 October. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 43 plus 307 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 25 plus 182 telematics votes, 207; against, 7 plus 45 telematics votes, 52; abstentions, 11 plus 80 telematics votes, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u102	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request, The vote will begin, [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 42 plus 307 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 40 plus 288 telematics votes, 328; against, 2 plus 14 telematics votes, 16; abstentions, 5 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u103	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 5/2020, OF 25 FEBRUARY, DETERMINING EMERGENCY MEASURES ON AGRICULTURE AND FOOD. [[File number 130/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u104	Royal Decree-Law 5/2020 of 25 February, adopting certain urgent measures in the field of agriculture and food. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 43 plus 307 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 26 plus 182 telematics votes, 208; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 17 plus 124 telematics votes, 141.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u105	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. We have also requested the processing of this royal decree-law as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 42 plus 307 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 20 plus 166 telematics votes, 186; against, 21 plus 136 telematics votes, 157; abstentions, 1 plus 5 telematics votes, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u106	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 6/2020 OF 10 MARCH, BY WHICH CERTAIN EMERGENCY MEASURES IN THE ECONOMIC AREA AND FOR THE PROTECTION OF PUBLIC HEALTH ARE ADOPTED. [[File number 130/000007]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u107	Royal Decree-Law 6/2020 of 10 March, adopting certain urgent measures in the economic field and for the protection of public health. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 43 plus 307 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 40 plus 302 telematics votes, 342; against, 1 plus 1 telematics vote, 2; abstentions, 2 plus 4 telematics votes, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u108	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 42 plus 307 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 9 plus 81 telematics votes, 90; against, 30 plus 221 telematics votes, 251; abstentions, 3 plus 5 telematics votes, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u109	Therefore, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 7/2020 OF 12 MARCH, BY WHICH EMERGENCY MEASURES ARE TAKEN TO RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ECONOMIC IMPACT OF COVID-19. [[File number 130/000008]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u110	Royal Decree-Law 7/2020 of 12 March, adopting urgent measures to respond to the economic impact of COVID-19. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 43 plus 307 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 39 plus 302 telematics votes, 341; against, 2 plus 1 telematics vote, 3; abstentions, 2 plus 4 telematics votes, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u111	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. We have also requested the processing of this royal decree-law as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 42 plus 307 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 11 plus 80 telematics votes, 91; against, 30 plus 222 telematics votes, 252; abstentions, 1 plus 5 telematics votes, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u112	Therefore, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 8/2020, OF 17 MARCH, OF EXTRAORDINARY EMERGENCY MEASURES TO FACE THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT OF COVID-19. [[File number 130/000009]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u113	Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 of 17 March of extraordinary urgent measures to address the economic and social impact of COVID-19. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 43 plus 307 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 33 plus 257 telematics votes, 290; against, 8 plus 46 telematics votes, 54; abstentions, 2 plus 4 telematics votes, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u114	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to that vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 42 plus 307 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 21 plus 158 telematics votes, 179; against, 20 plus 144 telematics votes, 164; abstentions, 1 plus 5 telematics votes, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u115	It is dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. ACTS RELATING TO THE STATES OF ALARMA, EXCEPTION AND SITE: - APPLICATION FOR THE AUTHORIZATION OF THE PROROGATION OF THE STATE OF ALARMA DECLARED BY THE REAL DECISION 463/2020 OF 14 MARCH, DECLARING THE STATE OF ALARMA FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE HEALTH CRISIS SITUATION OF COVID-19. [[File number 091/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u116	The next item is the request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm, declared by Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by COVID-19. The President of the Government has the floor on behalf of the Government to explain the reasons for the request for extension.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good night. I want my first words, like the first feelings of everyone, to be addressed to those who have suffered during these days the loss of a loved one, a father, a mother, a partner or someone to whom I have joined bonds of kinship, friendship or the bonds of love and affection. Similarly, I would like to express our solidarity with those who fight for their lives in hospitals or with those who remain sick in their homes. They and they are the top priority of all of us. For them and for them, our health care providers work tirelessly, for them and for them, as a matter of utmost urgency, we strive every minute of the day for public administrations at all levels of the State and in every corner of the country. For them, too, we all remain locked up. Ladies and gentlemen, eleven days have passed since the declaration of the state of alarm, eleven days in which we have been thrown into the mitigation phase, as the Minister of Health has repeatedly said, and in which we have pursued three key objectives: firstly, to put before the protection of those most exposed to the most severe forms of society; secondly, to shield the capacities of the health system to the maximum by protecting health professionals and those who cover basic services; and, thirdly, to protect the whole population by supporting basic hygiene measures with new measures of maximum social distance that avoid encounters between people and, consequently, reduce the possibilities of transmission. Ladies and gentlemen, there has not been a single day or an hour or a single moment when this government and all the public administrations - autonomous and local - have stopped acting. Since the Spanish Government, we have done so by deploying the measures taken at the last Councils of Ministers, both ordinary and extraordinary. We have already announced the mobilisation of up to EUR 200 billion to protect and assure families, workers, self-employed women and businesses; ultimately, our country. But we have also acted, ladies and gentlemen, first of all with health measures to strengthen public health and also support citizens through families, and here are the EUR 28 billion to the autonomous communities we are already transferring, the mobilisation of EUR 1 billion from the State's general budgets to the Contingency Fund, in this case managed by the Ministry of Health, as well as the set of actions to ensure the availability of medicines and also the necessary material. Intervention in prices of products necessary for health protection, creation of an extraordinary social fund with 300 million euros, extension of the protection of vulnerable groups in essential public services such as water, such as electricity, and also through the moratorium in the payment of mortgages. Secondly, measures for the maintenance of employment, in particular of small and medium-sized enterprises and of self-employed workers, granting the postponement and fractionation of their debts, as has been said here in the rostrum, encouraging teleworking in SMEs and promoting it through legal coverage, easing and speeding up ERTE with a view to prioritising the maintenance of employment on the termination of contracts, ultimately helping the self-employed concerned to have access to an ordinary unemployment benefit. Thirdly, measures to ensure the liquidity and flexibility of companies by opening the ICO's 400 million publicly guaranteed financing line, extending the bonus to discontinuous fixed contracts; and with a view to sustaining economic activity through liquidity guarantees, a guarantee line for companies and self-employed people of 100 billion euros is provided for yesterday, as you know, in the Council of Ministers for its effective granting. And finally, measures to support the necessary, essential and urgent scientific and medical research in the search for the vaccine against COVID-19. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that this pandemic has a threefold dimension: health, economic and also social, and therefore everything we do aims, first of all, to strengthen our health system and advance us to possible health threats, guaranteeing health security; mitigating the economic consequences of COVID-19 and recovering ourselves to rebuild the country in the shortest possible time in the economic and social sphere, and finally to protect all Spanish citizens, guaranteeing their right to life, and more precisely a life in decent conditions. I would also like to inform you of the various orders, resolutions and instructions issued by the four ministers designated as competent delegated authorities since the last time I appeared at the Congress of Deputies on 18 March. The Minister of Health has adopted two interpretative criteria of the Royal Decree declaring the state of alarm in order to clarify that public transport is permitted to: first, persons with behavioural disorders, such as persons with diagnosis of the autistic spectrum and disruptive behaviors whose situation can be aggravated as a result of confinement, provided that they are carried out with a companion and that they respect the measures necessary to prevent contagion, and persons who carry out voluntary activities for the feeding, rescue and veterinary care of domestic animals living in urban public spaces. The Minister of Health has also issued eleven orders in his field of responsibility. The first is to suspend the opening of hotels, tourist accommodation and short stay accommodation located in any part of the national territory and regulate the phased closing process. However, as the Minister of Health has also stated, this does not prevent these spaces from being able to be used for health purposes, either in consultation or in hospital. For his part, the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has also issued an order to guarantee accommodation and food in hotels to those workers who have to perform tasks of supply and general interest, health care, as well as to persons who have to travel to care for the elderly, minors, dependants, persons with disabilities, especially vulnerable persons or persons with health care needs. The second order of the Minister of Health is to ensure the maintenance of electricity supply to producers of metals, chemicals and other products of quantitative relevance in the markets. The third, to recommend to the Minister of Justice the coordination of the professional activity of officials of the Administration of Justice Service in order to ensure the continuity of essential services and, at the same time, to safeguard the health of service users and public employees. The fourth order is intended to ensure access to pharmaceutical benefits for groups belonging to special social security schemes. The fifth sets out measures for the management of household waste, as well as the management of waste from hospitals, ambulances, health centres, laboratories and similar establishments in contact with COVID-19. The sixth seeks to give final destination to the deceased with the greatest agility possible, eliminating the need for twenty-four hours from the death to the granting of the burial license. The seventh ensures the proper functioning of the supply services to the population of water for human consumption, as well as to the sanitation of urban waste water, by giving consideration to essential services to test laboratories, manufacturers and dealers of reagents, as well as to supplies of goods and spare parts of support services. The eighth sets out obligations for the provision of information, supply and manufacture of certain medicinal products which are considered essential for the management of the crisis in which we are immersed. And two orders have also been issued to regulate the activities of seniors' homes - which I know is a shared concern in this House - in order to reduce the risk of contagion and treat people suffering from this disease in the most appropriate way. One of these includes, first, protective and clean-up measures; and, second, the obligation to isolate residents diagnosed with COVID-19 and respiratory infections. Finally, a third, which are the coordination measures for the diagnosis and monitoring of residents. The other, adopted yesterday, establishes for the residences the obligation to maintain their activity, unless the competent authority determines and regulates the intervention measures of the private residential centers that I announced on Sunday. For his part, in the last week, the Minister of the Interior has issued two orders. The first of these is intended to ensure the provision of essential products and services to the population, and for this purpose temporarily suspends the restrictions on movement for goods and the special traffic control and surveillance campaigns that were planned. It shall also extend until 60 days the driving licences and licences which expire during the state of alarm. The second order lays down the criteria applicable to refuse entry into our country of persons who are not nationals of the European Union or of countries included in the Schengen area, while agreeing also to the temporary closure of the posts authorized for the entry and exit from Spain through Ceuta and Melilla. The Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has also issued five additional orders, in addition to the one mentioned above, and an instruction, in which, in the first place, it enables the same Ministry to acquire centrally a maximum of 8 million FFP2 masks, with a view to their subsequent distribution in the field of transport to persons providing services in areas of risk. Secondly, the validity of certain administrative titles issued by the Directorate-General of the Merchant Navy is extended in order to ensure the continuity of the activity and, at the same time, to suspend the planned inspection and recognition activities by the maritime authority and the maritime administration. Thirdly, instructions are issued on the carriage of goods by road allowing two persons to go to the cab of the vehicle when necessary because of the type of transport to be carried out, and also authorizing the opening of repair and maintenance workshops, as well as of sales establishments for parts and accessories with direct sale to the workshops, although they must remain closed to the public. Fourthly, drivers' qualification cards accrediting the professional qualification certificate are allowed to be used which cannot be renewed as a result of the suspension of continuing training courses or the impact of extraordinary measures on the regular functioning of the competent administrative bodies. Fifthly, measures for the transport of animals in order to ensure the logical supply. Sixthly, the conditions are laid down for the provision of air transport services on the routes, which are essential in a reality that is the island of Palma de Mallorca, Menorca and Ibiza and this service is awarded during the state of alarm. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has always followed, as has been said here by other speakers, the recommendations of the international health experts, of the World Health Organization itself and also of the extraordinary team of professionals of the Centre for the Coordination of Alerts and Health Emergencies, whom we will always thank for their dedication, their commitment, and of course also for the European bodies. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as you see, these are health measures, social measures, economic measures and labour measures and I repeat - I repeat - that the Government, and in particular the four ministries with delegated powers and myself as President, has not left a moment to take action, to issue orders and I assure you that they will continue to take action to meet the various challenges that may arise in the coming days. I would like to make a special mention of the actions and deployment made as never before in the democratic history of our country by the State Security Forces and the Armed Forces, a total of 240,245 troops deployed between the National Police, the Civil Guard, the Ertzaintza, the Mossos d'Esquadra, the Foral Police, the Canarian Police and the local police. And in the case of the Armed Forces, a total of 2,680 troops in more than 135 cities, supporting different social services, the installation of temporary infrastructure and the carrying out of tasks of recognition of needs, distribution of food and disinfection of stations, airports, courts, hospitals and residences of older people. They are also transferring patients between hospitals, to hotels, as well as the manufacture of medicines and sanitary devices. The mobilization of all public representatives, ladies and gentlemen, is maximum, it is total. All of them and all of them work together to win the war on the virus with our more than 350,000 professionals from the National Health System. They are as a whole, ladies and gentlemen, a national pride. Ladies and gentlemen, the magnitude of the challenge facing humanity is becoming increasingly evident. The virus advances and strikes hard at every country in the world, ignoring the distances, level of development and political orientation of its Governments. Health systems in countries that we all think are excellent are overwhelmed by the strength of the number. That, the overwhelming number of infected, is the power of the virus, that's its strategy. One by one, the containment tactics that each country has been testing, are being overcome until, finally, the only option is the social isolation and confinement of the bulk of the population in their homes. Precisely because isolation is indispensable to deal with the virus, today I come before you in this House to ask for an extension of that confinement, because in a society of free men and women, such as the Spanish one, the decision to lock us up in our homes cannot be decreed or imposed, but approved by the citizens themselves through their legitimate representatives. That is what establishes our democracy and our Constitution. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not easy to prolong the state of alarm, it is not, and with it the containment measures, which are not. It is not easy for the Government to request it, it is not easy for its lords to grant it, but it is even more difficult for citizens to assume it. I am convinced that the only effective option against the virus is social isolation. All of us and all of us, regardless of our political colour, are convinced of that. And I am also sure that everyone, regardless of our ideology, is aware that this rule must have some exceptions, that we need in maximum security to be able to leave our homes to make the purchase or to buy medicines and that it happens that for supermarkets to have food and pharmacies medicines are necessary some other economic activities of production and transport. And it happens that while we are in prison, we must preserve the maximum of the goods that will allow us to resume our lives once this nightmare is over, which will soon be over and over, but, of course, we have to address that reconstruction task. So, when it comes to action, it is necessary to use the scalpel in order not to amputate any nerve in our social body that compromises the very support of the confined population or the subsequent recovery of that same population and that forces us, ladies and gentlemen, to seek a very difficult balance, a delicate balance, but we must do so. We must win the virus without leaving anyone behind; it has already been said here and we share it. That is the balance that is sought with the decree that the Government brings today and in which we must find each and every political force present here. We have locked ourselves up to preserve ourselves from the contagion and thus preserve everyone from the contagion. We have locked ourselves up to buy time, ladies and gentlemen, so that hospitals can assimilate the number of patients that come to them, time for researchers to find effective medicines to treat the disease, until they finally get a vaccine that protects us all. It's a new sacrifice for everyone and it's an extreme sacrifice for people who were already living very delicate circumstances before this whole nightmare happened. Ladies and gentlemen, for many and for many, confinement rather than a precautionary measure can, unfortunately, imply the intensification of a previous nightmare: women mistreated by their partners, with whom they are forced to live; people living in infra-habitats, lacking ventilation and a minimum living space; people with psychological problems, who now see their connection with the world broken, allowing them to have minimal stability. Ladies and gentlemen, we also know the sacrifice that the extension of the state of alarm entails for all of them and all of them, and we ask that they, too, protect their health and can aspire to a better tomorrow than they had been enduring yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before the House to request an extension, as I said earlier, to request time. It is time that allows the adaptation and resistance of our health system, and it is a matter of time that science finds effective treatments and develops a vaccine that eliminates the virus. In the meantime, the vaccine is each of us, because we not only have to flatten the curve in the shortest possible time, and that is where the government is, but we try to avoid future waves. That is very important, ladies and gentlemen, we must try to avoid future waves and anticipate future threats. During this situation the Government is complying, as it cannot otherwise be, with the provisions of Organic Law 4/1981 of 1 June, and with Article 116 of the Spanish Constitution, which regulates the state of alarm, so that the social and democratic state of law that we have, the guarantees of freedoms and rights that the Constitution recognizes and protects even in such an exceptional situation - this Government is not insensitive to this - is always guaranteed. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that the Congress of Deputies and the political forces that make up it will understand the national emergency situation in the country and I hope that they will support the extension of the state of alarm until 11 April, because it is essential to defeat the virus to continue to deprive it of its main weapon of diffusion, which are our own social contacts. I compare, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, to the House to ask for time and I also appear before the House to propose another equally precious good at a time as critical as the present one, which is unity and loyalty. At the first appearance I made to present the royal decree of the state of alarm I said that when this crisis ended the Government was going to propose to the House the creation of an evaluation commission on what has happened to extract the lessons that we have to draw as a society and as a state so that in the face of future pandemics that will inevitably come we will have the necessary mechanisms to make our society as resilient as possible to them. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to move today that, during the period of extension of the state of alarm, I propose to the House that the Parliamentary Committee on Health should become the committee to monitor the crisis in COVID-19 and that, therefore, all the information and data provided by the Centre for the Coordination of Alerts and Health Emergencies and that, of course, it should be known every day by the Technical Committee to monitor the state of alarm, which is composed of the four authorities and by myself, can be shared daily with the Parliamentary Committee and with all the political forces involved there. I also move the commitment, ladies and gentlemen, that the Minister of Health will appear once a week in this Commission before all the parliamentary forces in order to be able to explain the evolution of the pandemic and the measures we are taking. Therefore, maximum transparency, maximum collaboration, maximum coordination and loyalty and unity of the Spanish Government with the Congress of Deputies. I must also say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are many very reasonable elements in the amendments that have been tabled by each and every political force. And I would like to tell you that the Government of Spain, regardless of the outcome of those votes, is studying each and every one of the measures that you have put forward in your amendments so that those that are feasible can of course make them credible during this period of extension of the state of alarm. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I come to ask you for time, as I have said before, and to ask you for something also very precise at this very critical moment, which is loyalty and unity, because, ladies and gentlemen, every need we meet together, every problem for which we find a solution in cooperation is another step towards the recovery of the life of Spanish citizens and the reconstruction of the common well-being. Let us continue to work with the utmost institutional loyalty, ladies and gentlemen, to preserve unity as a response to the sacrifice we are asking the citizens who remain in their homes, we will persevere in that loyalty as a response to the courage of those who leave their homes to fight the virus. Today all Spaniards and Spaniards must be united, and also with a specific territory, with the Community of Madrid, as tomorrow we will be, ladies and gentlemen, with Catalonia and with each and every one of the autonomous communities that need it. Everyone, from the most remote municipality to the Government of Spain, from every citizen in his confinement to every health care provider in his robe, suffered the same anguish in the face of a phenomenon that we had never experienced and had not even imagined. We all feel a similar sadness, but that is precisely why we must act with maximum loyalty and with maximum unity. I wish politics had the extraordinary power to restore normality to our lives immediately and in a matter of seconds - I wish we had that power - but it does not, ladies and gentlemen; what does make it possible for us is the power of cooperation, it is the power of coordination, it is ultimately union. That is why I reiterate in this House the same invitation that I transferred to the presidents and autonomous presidents in the two conferences that I have held with them in the last ten days, and that is that we work together, let us think about the anguish with which the spread of the epidemic continues, the major and the most vulnerable groups in the face of this pandemic, let us think about the health workers and also about their awakenings; let us flee, ladies and gentlemen, any petty thought, any selfish thought. No political leader is endowed with superhuman powers, but we are very lucky to have the response of a formidable citizenry and the scientific advice of the best professionals. We just need to add to those two factors our spirit of union and our will to victory, which we have. Let us act, ladies and gentlemen, with the time given to us by the citizens and with unity, with the time we need and with loyalty. I count on it, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you very much, Catalina. The representatives of the various parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u119	Good evening, Mr. President. Since the Government recognized the crisis of the coronavirus in Spain we have had two private conversations and I have appeared in public eight times to highlight in all of them in the first place that we have our support as the main opposition party to confront this pandemic, that we will support the state of alarm and economic decrees to mitigate the consequences of it and that we have to work together to combat the virus. But I must admit that your intervention today, like the previous ones, makes me more concerned. And I want to speak sincerely not as an adversary, but as a compatriot, as the father of two young children who have been confined at home for two weeks, as a friend of two dead and dozens of sick by the COVID-19. Our country is not for more rallies or for resistance or self-help manuals. The Spaniards need solutions, not promises; certainties, you don't struggle. Spain is grieving, we are all grieving, and this, Mr Sánchez, is not going well. Citizens are fulfilling the enormous sacrifices they are being asked for, with the very hard measures that Congress will adopt today, but the Government is not responding to their efforts. Believe me, it hurts to say it and I do it with all due respect and consideration. Over the past 24 hours, 738 people have been killed by the virus, more than twice as many of those in this Chamber in one day; this is terrible. In total we already have more victims here than in China, 3500 dead; 3500 truncated lives of broken families who have not even been able to accompany them in their last moments and take days to bury them because of the collapse of funeral services, and, for example, they have had to enable as morgue an ice track in Madrid. All these victims deserve the dignity of the nation, and that is why I propose that the official flags wave at half a pole while this pandemic lasts and I call for a state funeral for all of them when we overcome this crisis, to compensate for the loneliness that their families have suffered without sepulchres, and a monument in their honor in the centre of Madrid, as today they have announced their greatest responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, as public officials, what people are asking us is why Spain, which accounts for 0.6 % of the world's population, already accounts for 16 % of the dead, that is, twenty-seven times more than we would have as a population, being the second nation in the world, then Italy, in the number of dead. Some minister was escaped the day before yesterday that the Government had known the danger of the pandemic since 2 February; in fact, the first deceased in our country was registered on 13 February. In the first week of March, the European Union recommended social removal measures and the World Health Organization warned of the global epidemic, which, by the way, had already warned of the severity of the epidemic on 30 January. But the Government encouraged hundreds of thousands of people to protest massively on 8 March and authorized hundreds of massive events in those days. This same morning, the Minister of Health has acknowledged that the previous week was key in the expansion of the virus in Spain and even the Ministry of Defence has explained to NATO that 9 March was the national outbreak of this crisis. But you, Mr Sánchez, have not yet acknowledged it or apologized for such gross negligence. We'll have time to ask for responsibilities, I'm not going to do it now. On 9 March, ladies and gentlemen, I appeared before the press just to finish their follow-up committee by seeing that they were not taking any action and in the despair of my fellow mayors and autonomous presidents, who had been calling for the closure of schools, the residences of older people or the mobility of people for weeks. In fact, two weeks earlier, at the plenary session of Congress, in this House, on 26 February, I asked him to suspend the negotiating table with the independence parties and to send the Minister of Health to coordinate the response to the coronavirus throughout Spain. Already on 23 January we had recorded our first request for parliamentary information on this subject, and since then we have been carrying out two hundred initiatives presented that have not yet received a response from the Government. But, Mr Sánchez, all I'm worried about right now is what you're doing to fight the pandemic and why the one-man command is not effectively exercised. You said that we are at war against the virus, but in wars the governments do not send the soldiers to the front without helmet, without vest, without ammunition, and in this war our health professionals are fighting without masks, without protective equipment and without breathers to save the lives of the sick. Spain is the first country in the world to contagion to health care, 14% of the total, which is already 5400 cases. In the last 24 hours alone another 1,500 professionals have been infected. As a grandson, son and brother of six doctors and cousin, nephew and brother-in-law of three nurses, I know closely the vocation and sacrifice of some professions in which he is willing to risk his life in order to save that of others. What you can't do is leave them to their fate. We can't be on the phone every night to find out their share of casualties. Gentlemen of the Government, I ask you not to offend those at the front of this battle by announcing that today, ten days after finally recognizing the health alert, you have purchased material that will arrive between April and June at the hospitals, according to the press conference that you have given today. How many deaths and contagions will there be until then? More than half a million health workers deserve applause at eight o'clock in the evening, but need effective protection at eight o'clock in the morning. I do not know what else we have to do and say to ensure the arrival of the protection and intervention material immediately. And also massive tests to analyze the population so as to be able to prevent more victims and to open up the productive economy as the outbreaks of infection, such as in Korea and Japan, are isolated. I don't think it's much to ask, honestly. The government's sole command has all the competence and responsibility to centralize the purchases, and it assumed it at first, including by requisitioning and taking over the production of companies. We do not understand why a few days later it has assumed its incapacity and re-launched the international markets to autonomy without any coordination and no coverage in cash payments, as required by some suppliers. Each hour of delay is sick without respirators and doctors exposed to the infection. Honestly, this is already unforgivable. Mr Sánchez, you are the President of the Government invested with fewer votes and seats in your parliamentary group in our entire history. However, it is the one that has received the most power from the opposition. We have given him the extraordinary powers of a state of alarm, which is already more of a hidden state of emergency, since it affects the limitation of fundamental rights not reflected in the Constitution in the figure that we adopt today. That is why we have not even tabled amendments to the decree, not because it is not better, it is much better, but because it has already far exceeded its constitutional scope. Even so, today we are going to vote in favour of a sense of state, we have already done so, and institutional loyalty. Even, I announced our support a week ago, before knowing its content and without you asking us. And we will do the same with the decrees on economic measures, which are late and insufficient. But now the priority is to row in the same direction and hold your shoulder to resolve this crisis as soon as possible. We have given him everything he has asked of us, but the problem is that with these maximum powers, the effectiveness of the Government is minimal, and this cannot be done. Mr. Sanchez, I'm being the head of the opposition that you weren't. Twenty-five demonstrations were organized for us calling ourselves murderers for sacrificing the dog of the only Ebola infected in our country, which fortunately ended up being cured. You then asked, in the midst of the crisis, for the minister's resignation and called the president of the government at all. I am not going to do it, and, fortunately for you and for Spain, we are not like that. We're not going to stick stickers against you in the flap, we're not going to threaten or crush your homes, as I did in 2012 with a newborn baby at home, nor are we going to surround your party headquarters or throw them red paint at the bird's cry. But what we do have to do, because it is our responsibility, is to hold him accountable for what he is doing or not doing, and he must give them not in a prime-time televised weekend meeting with canned questions, he must be held accountable every week at the headquarters of national sovereignty, at the General Courts. In the banana regimes, public propaganda is spread on television for the cult of the leader, but in the parliamentary democracies the messages to the nation are directed from the congresses, like this one we are in, which has remained open even when they tried to occupy it by force. That is why we have proposed to you a parliamentary follow-up committee, not a health committee, which has been in existence for many years now; do not distort the dimension of this crisis. And we do it to support you with our vows, as today, yes, but also to help you with our experience. Here sits a minister of health who solved the SARS crisis, in the Senate there is a secretary of state who managed the Ebola crisis and in the Europarlemento there is a minister who administered the hepatitis crisis. I say the same to you about our autonomous presidents, members of parliament and mayors: count on them, what they ask of you is for the good of all, they have experience and know what their neighbours need; I also believe that those of other parties and those of their own. And please, gentlemen of the government, be loyal too, do not lie about the health management we have done in these years. Only in Madrid have twelve hospitals and one hundred new health centres been built - and less badly for this crisis - and throughout Spain public health spending in our last government, in particular EUR 3768 million, which we would like to receive now in the autonomous areas, increased by 14%. If you ask us for unity, do not break it, nor social action. His vice president broke the quarantine to release a rally against the right and the private sector and announce that he was taking over the senior residences, but we haven't heard him say anything again. And speaking of Mr. Iglesias, do not take advantage of the state of alarm to compensate your partners. He has yet to explain why he is joining the CNI commission today using such a sensitive economic decree for the unemployed and vulnerable. And by the way, explain to us why the Ministry of Justice has issued an order to authorize pardons in this period of exception and what that has to do with the coronavirus. But, above all, I believe it is unacceptable for members of his Government to promote caceroladas against the head of State and to do so from the Moncloa press room. I ask you to take advantage of the reply to disallow them and to defend the king of Spain. It would be very irresponsible to use this drama to advance its republican and anti-system agenda and its crusade against private property, the separation of powers and the free market. That is why we also do not understand why they are launching a struggle between the public and the private at this time, because when it is precisely now that there is a great deal of solidarity between companies and administrations and between workers and civil servants, it is because of the collaboration in symbiosis between the two sectors and the maximum health coordination between the two areas, which are also used by the infected members of their Government, whom I sincerely wish for a prompt recovery. Now is a moment of unity throughout Spanish society, it is not time to put forward divisive agendas or sectarian ideological frameworks. If it was a mistake to delay measures against the virus for ideological reasons, it would be even worse to apply them in order to try to get out of its harmful consequences, because, Mr Sánchez, the economic crisis has already arrived and is very deep. We support the measures they propose, and we only ask them to put them into effect now. SMEs and self-employed people not only need credit, they need immediate liquidity so they don't have to close. They are not enough with the EUR 20 billion approved yesterday, but with the EUR 200 000 promised. They do not ask for guarantees to pay taxes, what they want is for taxes to be deferred, for them to be exonerated from paying social contributions and for this month's quotas to be abolished. Employers can no longer manage paperwork from their homes, they ask for agility in the processing of files in favor of their workers by ERTE. The autonomous communities, the municipalities do not want any more promises, but they are given back the 2500 and 700 million euros respectively that the Government has owed them for months for their health and social spending. And, above all, we must already think about rebuilding our productive economy by increasing its competitiveness and flexibility, we must already lower taxes, labour costs and reduce bureaucracy. Mr Sánchez, the exit from this crisis will require a very intense reform agenda so that the millions of unemployed in Spain and those who are now unemployed can find work soon. His Government had been caught by this crisis without the duties it had done to improve the economy and that was why the effects on our country would be more serious. Our excellent health or social protection, pensions or education system has been made possible by the economic prosperity that in turn has made possible the particular productive sectors, contributing in solidarity to the public arks. This is how the European social state was set up, which today I have had the opportunity to claim in a video conference with my partners in the institutions of the European Union, and it must remain so, without falling into populist temptation. Only in this way will we be able to protect those who need it most, because no one should be left behind because of this crisis, and public officials will ensure that this is the case. Priorities will have to be reordered and the superfluous, which is certainly not the Ministry of Defence or the State Security Forces and Bodies, as you said. Today I also pay tribute to them for their efforts and dedication: to military, police and civilian guards, such as farmers, farmers, fishermen, distributors, transporters, pharmacists, journalists, prison officials and many others who are at the foot of the canyon so that others can fulfill the confinement that we have extended today. Ladies and gentlemen, we Spaniards are an exceptional people who in recent years have overcome dramatic circumstances. We achieved a transition to exemplary democracy, defeated terrorism and avoided the economic rescue that our welfare State would have destroyed. That anonymous Spain of 2 May, of freedom without anger, of white hands or of flags in the windows has reemerged spontaneously now. That Spain of the balconies in each applause thanks our heroes for their sacrifice, but it also demands in every slapping efficiency from their public representatives. It is that third Spain, which is not of one or the other, which is of all and forever. That Spain deserves unity, yes, but also effectiveness, and calls for loyalty, yes, but also responsibility. We owe it to thousands of families who are crying to their dead, to the 50,000 infected who are struggling to heal, to the thousands of workers who are risking the rest of us being at home and to those millions of families who are isolated and only asking for this crisis to be resolved as soon as possible. Mr. Sanchez, I'm done. Remember the maximum of Virgil: They can because they believe they can. To get out of a crisis a country needs to believe that it is capable of overcoming it, it needs to believe in who can lead it, it needs to trust the best government possible, and that is not happening. Confidence is achieved not by words, but by deeds and with solvency and credibility and determination. Nevertheless, it continues to count on our support and since today it has fifteen more days with extraordinary powers to deal with this pandemic urgently and effectively. Don't let the Spaniards down again, they don't deserve it. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, some of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u120	Thank you, Mr. Casado. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, my memory for the 3434 Spaniards who have died for this pandemic and my condolences to their families, to whom the pain of the irreparable loss of this cruel disease has added the pain of not even being able to fire their loved ones, who left in agony and loneliness, without the hand of a good son to close their eyes or without the extreme anointing of a priest for those who had faith. All of them I can only promise that we will not rest until all the competent authorities assume all their responsibilities to the Spaniards. My memory also goes to all the sick and their families, who now live in anxiety; my encouragement to those who will still be sick and my encouragement to the Spaniards who are stoically and with great responsibility for the difficult measures of house confinement. I can only promise you that VOX will not rest by providing solutions and work to alleviate as much as possible the consequences of the Wuhan virus and the negligence of the rulers. Mr Sánchez, Mr Iglesias, you have done it every afternoon and you have done it all wrong and the Spaniards have now suffered your sectarianism, your inability and your lack of foresight. You, Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, have lied to us; you, Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, have hidden information from the Spaniards; you, Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, have used this tragedy for your distributions of spoils, either by placing Mr Iglesias on the CNI or by preparing the pardons required by your investiture accomplices. You, Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, have skipped quarantine while confining the Spaniards to their homes, without being able to even walk their children or their sick relatives, with psychological illnesses to which you referred, for example. Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, on 29 January VOX asked them to take action against the coronavirus epidemic. First, you laughed at us, not just you, but your media terminals, who called us xenophobic and racist once again just because we wanted to take action at borders and airports, even came to tell us that we were more dangerous than the virus, which we haven't told you, by the way. But not only did they despise us, but they did not listen to the World Health Organization and said that Spain would not get the epidemic with this virulence and that there was no need for the tests of those who now speak so much; they did not then devote a minute to thinking about the material and the means that would be needed if the epidemic arrived in Spain. That is why our health workers are now unprotected and our health on the verge of collapse, while it is the social and particular initiative of many Spaniards who are trying to alleviate this horror. We have all seen known entrepreneurs, sportsmen, health workers giving everything, we have seen young people coming out to help in the homes of elderly people, we have seen nuns sewing masks, while the other day your parliamentary group, Mr Sánchez, met to assess the gender impact of this tragedy. And they didn't listen to the experts, no matter how much they're listening to them now, simply because until this Saturday, March 21, you haven't set up a committee of scientists. I don't know if they've included him in the senior health officer who was laughing at our deputy, Dr. Steegmann, when he was trying to prevent them a few weeks ago. By the way, could you tell us what is the chronology of that scientific advice behind which you shield and to which you have alluded so many times? Bring you names and documents because maybe we'll at least know which scientists we can't trust again. I will give you a name, and it is Mr Simon's name, and we really believe that the sooner you cease it, the sooner you will recover something that you urgently need before the Spanish: credit, because it was Mr Simon who publicly acknowledged that Sunday, March 8, fateful 8-M, at two or three o'clock in the afternoon already had news that the epidemic was out of control. I mean, hours before the feminist demonstration they already knew the virus was on the streets. Perhaps that's why some members of the government came with latex gloves to that demonstration? I suppose you have seen the news, while we were in the Chamber today, that a judge is already prevaricating the government delegate in Madrid for authorizing the demonstrations on 8 March and has asked that the investigation in relation to the president of the government be conducted by the Supreme Court and, therefore, the complaint is raised there. Mr Sánchez, Mr Iglesias, because of sectarianism, because of the desire for power, because of negligence, Spain is now facing three very serious threats: the first is the threat to health, the second is an economic threat and the third is a political threat, which is the one representing its partners in government and investment. Old people are dying in the homes abandoned by the administrations. There are living elders next to dead bodies, that's what our army has discovered. We received the letter from Isabel, a head of an elderly residence, published in some media, saying: I write from the situation of a small elderly residence where we have half of the staff on leave for having contracted the coronavirus. Our residents are locked in their rooms and cannot go down to the dining room, so you have to put the trays in their rooms. We don't have oxygen or masks or protective coats, and that's why the workers are falling like bedbugs. Residents demand our attention and we can't give it to them, they have to drink to avoid dehydration, but who offers them water? The food doesn't touch it and there are them with fever, but we don't know if they've taken the virus because they haven't taken the corresponding test. The public agencies send us all kinds of reports knowing that we cannot comply with them or read them, because the time spent would be reduced to other more important things. Which is exactly what we are doing with our elders, with the elderly, with those who have raised this country, with those who have been an example to us and to those who owe absolutely everything. They are also contagious, even by dying, health workers, police, civilian guards, military and prison officials, also transporters, security guards, traders and drivers, and all because there is no protection material in time, the tests they talk about, which have been used on few occasions, only to distinguish, once there are obvious symptoms, between the positive and the negative, while in other countries they have been used massively to identify the infected, to see what their contacts have been and to isolate them so that the infection does not spread. Stop protecting yourselves by trying to make a political account in your television appearances or in this rostrum and protect the Spaniards. The second threat is economic. He has already detailed our spokesman, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, our proposals, which we had sent to the Socialist Party yesterday, in order to avoid national ruin. I welcome our request to ban the vulture from trading in the Stock Exchange with tragedy, but much more needs to be done. Light, water or gas must reach all families without any tax as long as the crisis lasts and perhaps beyond. And we do not forget the self-employed, who cannot be asked to continue paying quotas and taxes when they are not allowed to work. The third threat is politics, and more and more Spaniards are worried about it. Mr Sánchez, I must tell you that I believe you have a dangerous totalitarian sitting next to you, in your government, and instead of ceasing it you have given him more powers and have used this moment to shield him in the control of the National Intelligence Centre. That is why we ask you to rectify immediately, that apart from any decision to Mr. Iglesias, for irresponsible, because in addition to failing to comply with the quarantine it tries to take political advantage at this moment of suffering of the Spaniards. You have at your side, Mr Sánchez, a person who has encouraged protests against the monarchy when the country you all govern was suffering the worst crisis of the century. A person who has broken the unity of the balconies, which was the most precious, the most exciting thing the Spaniards had in these sad moments, and has done so to sow the division and hatred among the Spaniards, with a cacerolada, by the way, who have already returned millions of Spaniards also last week. Don't you realize, Mr Sánchez, that if you were sick - and God doesn't want you to! - as happened to Vice President Calvo, whom we wish for an early recovery, would Vice President Iglesias take over all power temporarily? Don't you understand that the Spanish people cannot admit that those who promote caceroladas against the head of state can end up presiding over the government, even if it were by chance? And, of course, in this political threat the traitors of the past could not fail: the Catalan separatists, who have even come to celebrate the epidemic with miserable jokes. I assure you that Mr Puigdemont will pay for laughing at the Spanish victims, as he will pay for all his crimes. Then, when it was no longer funny about 'from Madrid to heaven' because they also died in Barcelona, they demanded that the army not appear on its streets. We will also hold you accountable for the delay in the deployment of our military when the time comes to settle accounts. I would therefore like to thank here today for the work and patience of our Armed Forces. I imagine you no longer believe, Mr. Sánchez, as you previously believed, that the Ministry of Defence must be abolished. As I ask you, that I demand, the cessation of Mr. Iglesias, I also demand you to apply Article 155 or whatever it takes to dismiss Mr. Torra, who is disqualified by the courts, because his anti-national prejudices while in charge of the Generality of Catalonia are putting the lives of Catalans at even greater risk. Mr Sánchez, I think you have lost a time that is gold and that has cost lives, that has cost many lives of Spaniards. Rectify radically; apologize, because it is something that can be done in politics; leave the television bomb; do not pretend to appear constantly with a program that almost looked like that of Aló Presidente, in which he even told us how Internet access had grown during these days, because we will not get out of here with Mr Maduro's propaganda techniques or with the occurrences of unscrupulous advisors. It's not vain, Mr. Sánchez, but I want you to understand our position. I was the first political leader to demand a state of alarm on Tuesday, March 10. I asked you to unify the command of the Administration, to overcome the chaos of the seventeen protocols and direct you, with vast powers and unity of command, all efforts to stop this pandemic. And we did it out of patriotism. Imagine what it represented to us, what it was hard for us to expand their powers if we were to denounce since you were elected the illegitimacy of your Government for the lies you told the Spaniards during the election campaign. But you're the president, illegitimate we say, but you're the president legally and that's why we believe you must have all the command and responsibility to lead all the efforts of the state and the nation to win this real war against the pandemic. We know that the challenge is extraordinary, as you have moved in your speech. That's why you don't lose another second in politics, in chanchullos with the investiture accomplices or in the propaganda recommended by your advisors. If you don't see yourself capable, you can go, nothing forces you to be here; you can go now and put someone with less political mortgages; you can give way to a government of national unity. But, if you decide to continue, I repeat the demand: immediately cease Mr. Iglesias, the Minister of Health, the person responsible for emergencies and dismiss the separatists in the Generality, who are from the same party of those who have laughed at our dead. Forget, of course, to give pardons; condemn the attitude of those who, with their anti-monarchal obsessions, have divided the Spanish people in this very serious hour. Do it now or you'll regret it forever or worse, more Spaniards will die and more Spaniards will be ruined. And it is to them, to the Spaniards and to Spain, to whom we owe our loyalty. That is why today we have no choice but to support the continuity of the state of alarm. We will vote in favour of extending the measures and therefore you will enjoy special powers for a further 15 days. I have demanded many things from him and I have said many things to him because I think it was my duty with Spain, with the Spanish and with the people we represent. I now ask you to use these powers to minimize as much as possible the threat to health, to minimize as much as possible the economic threat and to completely banish the liberticide threat of your partners. You know that if you'd listened to us before in some things the situation wouldn't be so dramatic. Pay attention to us now because you won't have any more opportunities. If you do not use these fifteen days to combat the health threat effectively, to alleviate the economic threat and avoid the ruin of the Spanish and to banish the totalitarian threat posed by their partners, not only will you not be able to count on our support, but we will demand political and criminal responsibilities before the Spanish people and before the courts. Let me conclude with a message of encouragement, gratitude and pride for Spanish society, for those entrepreneurs more or less known, for those sportsmen, for those health workers, for those young people handed over to the older ones, for those anonymous heroes who are doing their best, saying that it is time for all Spaniards to join in the collective effort to invent, uniting ingenuity and capital, because it is science and industry that can save us from such a bitter moment. Let us take advantage of the lessons of this dark crisis to become a scientifically and technologically advanced country that shines in Spain, with God's help, trust in ourselves, science and research. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u122	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Catalina. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia In Comú, Mr Echenique Robba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Government, members of the Government of Spain, had prepared the speech, but I believe that some of the things that have been said here must be answered. I am a scientist of profession and there is a famous scientist, a father of quantum mechanics, Mr Niels Bohr, who said: Predicting is very difficult, especially the future. It was ironically said, but it is a truth that anyone who engages in physics or epidemiology knows that it is the closest that there can be to an absolute truth in the scientific sphere. We are told here by the right-wing spokesmen - who will have to be evaluated once and for what the right-wing parties in this country have served throughout this crisis - of a supposed very poor management of the Spanish Government in these months and weeks. But, of course, says Mr Pablo Casado, who has used in this rostrum - in fact, in which I have behind me - the problems that our health professionals, our doctors, our nurses and the high rate of contagion that exists in this sector, that the skin is being left behind and, at times, the life to protect all the Spaniards, has used these problems, which are real and which the Government knows perfectly well and about which it is acting to mitigate, to attack the Government and to accuse the Government of inefficiency. However, Mr Pablo Casado has not said from this rostrum how to get as soon as possible - as he is asking the Government of Spain - millions of PPE to come to protect both health care workers and other people, and he has not said it because he does not know it; he has not said how to do it because he does not know how to do it; and this is the behavior of the right-wing parties that we are seeing in recent times. Mr Abascal has used a similar speech, a little more hyperventilated, as is his style, but it is that yesterday Mr Abascal, who is accusing the Spanish Government of mismanagement, proposed that immigrants in our country have to pay before receiving health care. This, in addition to being morally repugnant, in addition to being economically stupid, is absolutely ineffective from the point of view of combating the epidemic. Anyone knows that if we placed hundreds of thousands of people living and working in our country outside the health care system, what we would be doing is helping the coronavirus spread faster. From these two places come the criticisms to the Government of Spain: from a gentleman who says that we must protect our workers and health care workers, as it is obvious that we must do - but he does not say how because he does not know it - and from a gentleman who proposed yesterday a measure that would make the coronavirus spread more rapidly in our country. One day you will have to ask yourself what the right and right-wing parties have done in managing this crisis. I am going to try to be brief because I believe that people expect clear words from us and not overheard and patriotic speeches like the ones we have just heard, and also because, although we are public representatives and we have an obligation to stay in this Chamber for as long as it takes, the workers of the house have the right to dinner at a decent hour today as well, so I will be as brief as I can. As I say, it's hard to have certainties in an epidemic like this, anyone knows it; a person who's worked in science knows it twice, but some certainties we have. The first is that it has been a good idea to declare the state of alarm; not even the forces that did not ask for it five minutes before his statement and five minutes later were already saying that it was late, not even those political forces deny that it was a good idea to declare the state of alarm in our country, not even the Captain a posteriori denies that it was a good idea. It is also clear that the state of alarm needs to be extended because it is clear that we are not going to beat the coronavirus in the next fifteen or twenty days; it is clear, therefore, that we must vote in favour of this extension and that is what my parliamentary group is going to do. And there are many more certainties that this crisis is leaving us: the height of our people. It has been said in this rostrum by several spokespersons and I completely agree, every time we say it there are few. The need for strong and robust public health in our country, I believe, is also a certainty. Also that fraternity between the different territories of Spain is very important, especially when they are badly given. I was very pleased to hear the Minister of Health say that at the moment we must help the territory where the health system is most tense, which is the Community of Madrid, and say this without any criticism of the management of health in the Community of Madrid, that some criticisms could be made and we all know it very well. I was very pleased to hear that fraternal proposal between the different territories of Spain to tie the shoulder, which is also a certainty that leaves us this crisis and that leaves us this period so hard. There are more certainties - our Member Txema Guijarro commented in the previous speech -: austerity is over. The dogmatism of austerity has died; no one defends that from a crisis comes out cutting the health, that comes out devaluing the wages of the people, that comes out rescuing the bank, that goes out putting accounting principles before the life of the people, before the health of the people. We live in a time when Angela Merkel proposes major public games to fight the virus and announces that Germany will be indebted to deal with these public investments; Germany. We live in times when the IMF says that we must invest urgently in public health. We live in times when Ursula von der Leyen raises the austerity clause and activates the Stability Pact escape clause on a general basis so that countries do not have to meet the deficit criterion under such difficult conditions. We live in a time when Mr. Luis de Guindos is proposing a basic income in Spain to move forward and pass the epidemic. I hope that, having learned this and having this certainty, we can build a more just and better Spain and a more just and better Europe too when we pass this epidemic and when we have defeated the virus. These are the certainties that I think leave us this situation. But there are also uncertainties that we have to face. There are two types and they are well known: uncertainty about the evolution of the epidemic and uncertainty about the material life of people today, in the near future, immediately, and in the long term as well. On the second point, it has been commented on extensively on the previous point and I do not want to add to it - I also expressed to you, Mr President, in this very House, the opinion of our parliamentary group a week ago - but I would like to highlight some elements on which we believe that progress should be made in the coming weeks, in the coming days. Firstly, the issue of rents. It's been said here. We are very pleased that Minister Calviño has suggested that we should work in that direction. Indeed, we believe that it is urgent that there can be a suspension of rent payments for the most affected people, while protecting small owners. We believe that such mortgage and rental moratoriums or suspensions can also be extended to SME and self-sustaining premises or offices. We believe that progress must be made on some kind of minimum income for people who are not currently protected by the decrees that the Government has been carrying out and who have a very low income or who have no income and, of course, will count on the cooperation of our parliamentary group, our political force, our political space, to work in that direction. With regard to the other uncertainty that the people of our country are experiencing with great concern at the moment, the uncertainty about the evolution of the pandemic, I said at the beginning of my speech that we must be clear, and I think we must be clear at this point in particular. Current data on the evolution of the epidemic are not good, which we know today. The curve is still accelerating, it's still in a situation that the people of my profession call a positive second derivative. This means that not only does the number of deaths increase, it not only increases the number of infected, but also increases the rate at which it grows. This is because every day there are a greater number of new infected than the previous day and there are a greater number of new deceased than the previous day. With the data today, we still don't see the peak of the epidemic, we still don't see the peak of the epidemic; these are data. On the other hand, there are other data that are eloquent and hopeful, the data provided by DGT and the Ministry of Transport regarding our country's mobility. It is impressive how the people of our country have assumed the hardness of confinement. The data on mobility reduction in Spain are enormously eloquent, enormously eloquent, and we know that many experts are predicting that this very low mobility, due to the great responsibility of the people of our country, whom I want to thank from here, can lead us to see in the coming days how we begin to bend the curve, how we begin to overcome the epidemic, at least to take those first steps to overcome the epidemic. I wish it were. It's a plausible scenario given the mobility values we're seeing, but that might not happen. As you have often commented, Mr President, one of the keys to the good performance of the Government has always had to do with flexibility in changing scenarios and, therefore, anticipate our support; it will always have our support in this crisis. But I also ask you that if you changed the scenario, if we went to a worse scenario, unfortunately, the Government of our country could consider some levels of restriction of larger movements, such as those suggested by some Members of this House. People in our country are older and know what we're playing at. The Spanish Government has had to make very complex, very difficult decisions, using the best available science, and I believe that the people of our country know that we will have to make more complex and difficult decisions. To conclude and respect my promise of brevity, I simply want to tell you to know that those difficult decisions will not have to be made alone. It will count on the support of my parliamentary group on the path that remains to be followed. We will continue to work tomorrow, evening and evening to move what we think, the best proposals, with loyalty, with constructive spirit, but above all maintaining a maximum, the maximum that the balconies and windows of our country teach us every day at eight o'clock in the afternoon: from this we go out together and united or, if not, we do not go out. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u124	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u125	Thank you very much, President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I start with a thank you, a memory and a hug. The thanks are once again - and there will always be few - for each and every worker who at the moment is leaving your sleep, your desire, your soul for us to have a future. Thank you, an infinite thank you. You're the only unarmed army that's really gonna win this crisis. A memory; a memory for those who are passing through or watching this virus pass through their homes or in the bed of a hospital. You'll get over it. And a hug; a hug for those of you who are watching your loved ones die in the midst of all this without even being able to fire you. There are no words, just a hug, the biggest hug you can give. As we said a week ago, let no one count on Republican Left or this spokesman to throw this virus and this crisis at our head. What do you think people think, ladies and gentlemen of PP and VOX, when they see and hear you? One with flags half a pole and the other talking about Venezuela. Flags do not feed, care for, comfort or heal, reddish, tricolor or stellate; they do not heal. And that does not mean that we are not, by far, in agreement with all the measures taken by this Government during this crisis or that we are not very hard on some of the decisions that have been delayed or insufficient to aggravate this situation. Spain is already the fourth country with more cases on the planet, 3434 dead, more than China in ninety days; a week ago there were 500. No fatalism, no frivolity, no reality. The over-prudence will be forgiven, Mr President, so be clear. Citizenship will always forgive him for excessive prudence, but will never forgive signs of unconsciousness. Today's delay or incompetence doesn't make you lose votes, it makes you lose lives. Ladies and gentlemen, today no matter who or how the story is won, today only who or how the virus is won. Because so absurd and so irresponsible is not having confined Madrid in its moment as seeing today a traffic jam in a roundabout of Valencia or a crowded subway of people in Barcelona forced to go to work. As we always say, there will be time to settle accounts. Today is to make proposals and give answers of present and future on a basis: everyone here today wants to be right. I am convinced that everyone here today wants to be right. While we have supported their economic and social measures to try to alleviate the future economic crisis born of the current health crisis, we can only refrain from this extension of the state of alarm they pose. And we do it mainly for two reasons, one relevant and main and the other certainly accessory but that should be commented on, because we think that if we don't we won't do it anyone else. The first reason, the main one: it is absurd to continue with the lock Madrid and close Catalonia, it is absurd. If this is already a global problem, it is simply because it was not treated territorially. From our point of view, you arrived late and badly at the closure of the two main outbreaks of infection, constantly claiming that the virus does not understand territories, obvious that it does understand statistics, and Barcelona and Madrid headed them. Repeat, 3434 dead, more than China. Now we ask you not to be late to the next step you have reached this point. We have to stop, we have to stop and we have to do it as soon as possible. The sooner and the more we stop, the sooner and the more we recover. The measures of containment and operation of the activity they propose continue to appear to us to be lax and late. All non-essential activity must be stopped in order to have some kind of activity tomorrow. And if you have doubts - we too have doubts - about what is essential and not essential, let us discuss it, discuss it and reach a consensus. Complaints are already being received today from employees about heartless entrepreneurs who offer money or directly extort their workers to go face-to-face to their non-essential jobs. The virus does not understand social classes, but perhaps the government does. They cannot continue to advocate - and I literally read Article 7 of this royal decree - for allowing travel to the workplace to perform professional or business work benefits. This is terribly irresponsible. They must now restrict it to the purely essential. On my way to Congress, for example, I've seen two gardeners cutting the lawn of a park. What's essential about cutting a park lawn now? Can't the grass grow for a month? And we're talking about a municipal company. If we want to lower that curve, it makes no sense to force people to go buy from one to the other on a Saturday and instead find themselves on a Monday a subway car attested because they have to go to work forced. Either we stop the country, or we run out of country, or we stop the country, or we run out of country, whatever country is for everyone. [[The lady]] The second reason why we abstain, for which we cannot vote yes, I have already said that it is accessory, but if we do not comment on it, surely no one will comment on it, and it is the tuff to naphthaline and patriotism of cornet and tambourine that triggers some staging in all this during these days. And I am not referring only to generous donations - which, by the way, a donation accompanied by a press release is not generosity, it is publicity -, I am not referring only to that, I am not referring only to the image, the statements or the gestures of four or five gentlemen with twenty medals in their chest every morning talking about wars and soldiers, when the only soldiers who, I repeat, will win this war - in quotes - go unarmed and carry a robe; I am not referring only to the use of a war language and a chastisement that in times of crisis everyone knows appeals to a sense of false belonging and, above all, to the destruction of the critical sense towards whom it governs, I am referring above all to the consequences of all this forced regression of civil rights that we are living. Do not let yourselves be led away, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, do not let yourselves be led away by the temptation to make this regression of rights and this legislation exceptional common rule. At the same time as we ask to tighten the conditions of confinement with vehemence, we ask, with even greater vehemence, that controls be lifted to police protocols on the street. We are faced with the greatest massive social control in history in times of peace. The presence and new police powers on the streets by this state of alarm in no case should serve the violation of civil rights, let alone the increase of police abuses, as we are seeing in various images these days. These are images and videos of irresponsible people being reprimanded and assaulted by the police, including harassment, insults and victors of those who record. Police abuse is police abuse, in education, in holidays or in quarantine. In the face of the current health crisis and the future economic crisis, there is no need for a more punitive system; a more social and cooperative system will be needed. I wish, I wish, this social lynching that we are seeing out for those who have cut in health for years and not for irresponsible kids who skip quarantine and are assaulted by the police now. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, do not let yourselves be swept away by the impulse and mermaid chants of authoritarianism. I just hope that when we get out of this, I really hope, the Spanish right, the Spanish patriots and the Catalan right think about it a lot before they cut in health. I ended up with a very in-line reflection. The other day the King's Royal Guard was announced as Spain's first soldier in all of this. It does not seem bad to us, but it would be very good if the real 100 million euros were also incorporated into Saudi commissions, which would go very well to health right now. Thank you very much and good night.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u126	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u127	Thank you. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Good evening, Mr. President. A week ago we approved and valued here the necessary declaration of the exceptional measures and we made them assuming, advancing, projecting that they would be difficult days for all Spaniards. Today is no longer the first ten days, but we voted for the extension for fifteen more days, and I am convinced that there are many people who now see us with apprehension, many people who today miss loved ones much or who see us with fear. The figures have already commented on them and I will not repeat them, but we have come to a very hard week and with very hard numbers. Those numbers overwhelm us, but they're also an alert. I do not share the position of those who want to take advantage of this situation to make war on the government rather than war on the virus, but I do believe that it is rigorous to say that this situation has exceeded us and that we are at this time late, we are reacting late and we need more decisive measures. I understand, Mr President, that the decision is very hard and that it is very easy to speak when one is not in the place of the one who makes the decisions, I am perfectly in charge, but I believe that we must urgently and decisively tackle the decision that, in order to curb the curve and overcome the virus, we must stop the country and that, as has been said before, we must surely go to a much harder confinement to make it a shorter confinement and that we must go out with fewer victims than we should regret and with less economic and social destruction. That is impossible if millions of Spaniards every day have to continue to work in fear of becoming infected; many in non-essential sectors. It's okay to be admonished from the balconies or from the police you're going to work on, which turns out you're going to buy and it takes a little longer or a little longer to come home, but you can't be doing that when millions of people have to go out every day to work in fear of seeing if they bring the virus to their home and loved ones. Here it has been said many times that the virus has no class, but the fear of contagion does; not everyone can telework and not everyone can be locked up at home. There are specific sectors that are being cannon meat, that go out every day to work with the fear of seeing under what conditions they return home, basically because they are more afraid of unemployment than the virus, and that cannot continue to be the case. We have to make it clear, all the victims hurt us, but the pandemic also eats particularly with some Spaniards and not with others. You can't ask people to stay at home like this is a matter of self-help, like it's a 'good thing, so nothing, turn the Netflix on' thing. To stay at home, people have to have the freedom and the guarantees that they don't have to choose between coronavirus or ruin; they have to have the guarantees that they don't have to choose between precariousness or illness; and they have to have the guarantees that no one will tell them: if you don't come tomorrow, don't bother, you don't have to come the next day. And that's just someone who can do it. I used to say this: this crisis has killed neoliberalism. No one hears now about the invisible hand of the market; nor do the most fanatics of the market now speak of the invisible hand, of which one must liberalize, of which each with his money... It's a lie, and we all know it; only you can make this decision. Only the Government of Spain, only the Spanish State, can make the decision that the weakest are not afraid to go out on the street and can make the confinement we need. As I said, we need to paralyse the country and only the essential services that the Government decides to continue to operate. We need to tighten containment and limit mobility so that confinement is tougher, yes, but also shorter. We need to put into practice whatever it takes, whatever it takes. That means that all essential resources for public health must be under public control. There can no longer be empty beds in private hospitals; there can no longer be - as there is in the Community of Madrid - wings in hospitals which, as they were handed over to the vulture funds, are still empty. And that can only be done by you. We must ensure that there are more means for health workers; we must ensure that all industries that can be converted to serve the war on the virus are converted under public control, starting with textile companies to make masks, by companies that can make breathers, by pharmaceutical companies, by all companies that can serve the only legitimate national objective today. And we must decree a 135 backwards so that this does not happen again, so that we will never again be leaders in Europe in having few beds, in having few seats in the ICU, and that we will never again be in line in spending per capita on health; and we must guarantee a floor of income in health. As I said earlier, it is true that the metaphor of the Marshall Plan has been reached, so long as it is put into effect, but that means mobilizing at least the same resources as then; if then it was mobilised between 5% and 6% of the gross domestic product, we cannot be mobilizing 1.4%. These are data from the Bank of Spain today, which says that we mobilise 1.4%, while South Korea mobilized 2.9% and Germany mobilizes already, with many fewer cases, 3.5%. Only you can make sure that there is a confinement without fear, that uncertainty is not compounded by the fear of not knowing if I will be able to pay the bills, if when I leave there will be a job waiting for me, if I will be able to leave this one. In that you have many things in favor, but one that we all count against. We have the consensus of the experts, in my opinion we have the immense understanding and consensus of Spanish society, we have a lack of appearance of the ideological adversary - the neoliberals are hidden and are more statist and more socialist than the socialists in some cases -, the only thing we do not have is a lot of time. The only thing we don't have is weeks and weeks, because not everyone can last weeks. I know that it has been said repeatedly by the Government that more action will continue and that progress will continue. We have asked for measures in rents, we have asked for measures in a basic income that does not leave anyone behind and we have asked for measures for the self-employed, but not everyone can endure a week or two. In this regard, reconstruction is now beginning, preventing job losses, preventing companies from closing down, preventing families from going bankrupt. It is therefore urgent that decisions be taken more quietly and more ambitiously immediately. I have the feeling that today's warmest measures require taking care that history is now accelerated, that this is a moment of exception and that, if not, there will be no gap for warm or non-warm measures, and therefore this is a time to dare and on that path we will be found. There's consensus, there's money. I used to say that the economy has never been as clearly political as it is now; now it turns out that if there is consensus for one thing, there is money. There is consensus, there is money, there is a majority approval of Spanish society, the only thing we do not have is time. I know that there are many people who are listening to us with fear, who have lost someone, who has to continue working; there are many older people who are alone; there are many people who are going through them in agony these days; there are many children who have not been able to run for a long time. I want my last message to be for them and for them. I was saying the other day: we're gonna get out of this, we're gonna get out together and we're gonna get out as a town. And we ask the government to rise to the level of the Spanish people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u128	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you. For the same group, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, last week we announced in this rostrum the full willingness of the BNG to cooperate in the containment of the coronavirus, even if the measures taken did not like us or seemed insufficient to us. Well, that remains our spirit, and I can assure you that there are measures that we do not like and others that we feel are insufficient because in addition the evolution of the spread of the epidemic in the Spanish State is certifying that this is so. That is why we have put forward proposals to change the state of alarm in some respects, focusing on those we believe to be fundamental. Firstly, we argue that all non-essential economic activity must be paralysed, because in this context the absolute priority must be to save lives and not the scoreboard. Italy did it, late but it did it. The Government of Quebec made the same decision yesterday, with 600 cases and 4 deaths. Don't wait until, as in Italy, you're late. Let's learn from other experiences, because it's obvious that it doesn't make sense to ask people to stay home on Sunday and meet hundreds, thousands of fellow workers in a factory, in a bank or in a call center. Secondly, close the main outbreaks of contagion to avoid expansion and simultaneously shield the less affected areas by completely cutting off non-essential passenger communications by both air, sea and rail as well as by road. Armor Galicia continues to be a necessity. It is not useful to rely on containment measures because they are not all the strict they should be. You yourself, Mr President, gave your appearance on Sunday the figure of the drop of 70% in the journeys of light private vehicles by road; there is still 30%. That means that there are still many, too many - thousands and thousands - the displacements that are taking place, a trend that, no doubt, if you do not remedy it, will increase with the beginning of Holy Week. We know that this is a drastic decision, but it is also absolutely necessary. I insist on that last week, we have not proposed it since emotional distancing, on the contrary, we empathize with the population that is experiencing difficult times in the main affected areas. In addition, Galicia is a country of migrants, unfortunately. At present there are many Galicians and Galicians living in Madrid, Barcelona or anywhere in the world who have not been able to return or have chosen not to return. I take the opportunity to send all of them, all of them, a fraternal and supportive embrace. Thirdly, we believe that the process of centralization produced by the declaration of the state of alarm must be reversed, considering that, as was foreseeable, it turned out to be absolutely ineffective for the operation and the actions necessary for containment. Removing skills from those who have better knowledge of the territory, its characteristics and the available or potential means is never a good solution. Coordinating rather than centralizing should be the Government's option. Note that we, the BNG, say this when in Galicia the People's Party ruled, with a president who cut, precariously and privatized public health. And we say it because it is, because we knew it and because this week's experience has certified it. Massive testing and provision of adequate material or protection to all personnel at risk are other urgent and necessary measures. We know that the adoption of stricter containment measures will also entail socio-economic consequences and will therefore require the adoption of new and more ambitious measures of social and labour protection and of future economic impetus. In any case, as I said at the beginning, the priority now is to save lives and for that it is essential not only to take these measures, but to do so in time. Continuing to wait has a vital cost and you know it; therefore, we ask you to act now. I'm done. Today we have seen dramatic data: the Spanish state, with 47 million inhabitants, has already surpassed in people who died in China, with more than 13 billion. We are at heart with all their relatives and relatives and we are convinced, moreover, that we will come forward as a result of the commendable work of thousands of people who daily risk their health and life to save those of all, making good the motto that only the people save or the people. The Government must live up to that citizen effort and that requires less uniform overaction and more practical measures, less novelty on the front and more determination to implement them with agility and strength. That's what people expect, what we all expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u130	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are four groups in the Plural Group and one of them, who is not here today but who has tabled amendments, Junts per Catalunya, has told us to ask for debate. Ladies and gentlemen, in these strange, exceptional days, schools, institutes and universities are closed and yet we have a unique opportunity to learn as never before; to learn the value of those little everyday things that we so much miss today: contact with the family, with friends, which we now replace with those lively conversations at a distance with neighbors in the afternoons of applause and emotions; to learn the value of public services that for years the right has not ceased to cut. And, despite what Mr. Pablo Casado says, now here in Madrid, there are fewer health personnel than in 2010. That right made the retirees pay the prescriptions, that right suppressed, suppressed universal health, and it had to be progressive governments, like the Valencian, those who recovered it... [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u132	What do you say? What's he saying?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u133	Let us leave the speaker, who has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u134	I didn't interrupt you once. These public health services are the ones that are facing each day, and not like that chain of private hospitals that they have urged, suggested to their workers to take vacations, permits, surpluses, because they would stop winning. We have learned in this crisis that health cannot be left in private hands. We've learned that. We have learned that they can live without football, but not without science, without scientists and scientists, without public health, doctors, nurses, auxiliaries, cellists, truckers, farmers, dependents, etc., etc. Compromis will approve the prolongation of this state of alarm for responsibility, because in these exceptional times politicians have to live up to what our citizens ask us to do. And the citizens, yes, ask us to work together, to tie our shoulders together, to make positive proposals and to leave the race short and partisan for when all this happens. Some who have preceded me in the use of the floor have boasted of unlimited hypocrisy by referring to certain prohibitions that should have been made, as they had been warned that this was going to happen and yet on 8 March they celebrated their rally, although they already knew what was going to happen and, in addition, with a prominent leader with obvious symptoms of having that disease. We'll be loyal, but not acritic. We believe that this decree has been shortened, and we are seeing it every day. I will tell you some things that are important to us: First, we cannot ask workers to go to their jobs without any protection; so I urge you, I ask you to reconsider whether we should move on to greater containment measures. In the lease there has been a moratorium on mortgage payments, probably there should have been an exemption, and it would be good for the banks to start returning the favor we all did to them a few years ago. There are people who cannot even pay a mortgage, who have to live on rent, and that is why I liked the intervention of Mr Echenique and that of the minister before in the sense that you have to regulate that exemption for rents, especially those who depend on funds and banks and are given to people what they have to give them. Also, that a basic income be made available, that the self-employed be not left behind, that there be deferred quotas and taxes, that the autonomous communities be clearly financed and that the municipalities be given facilities to spend their deficit and that, to those people who are isolated in distant countries do not let them be thrown away; yesterday, I received a message from Blanca, a Valencian woman from Alcalá de Xivert, who is in Thailand, and the embassy is doing little. I urge you. I'm done, Madam President. In these strange exceptional days, we can do something that we did as children: we should all complete our particular album of chromes, but not with the faces of the galactic footballers, but with the faces of those anonymous heroes who each day leave home and risk their lives so that the world does not stop, so that the others will continue with our existence behind the protective glass of our house, so that life will continue to flow even in uncertain and turbulent times. Let us learn, and above all let us memorize, so that when all this is over, we know how to value the importance of things and of people, but of things and of truly important people, and of superfluous and toxic things, of which they are of all and for all and of which they are for a few and a few. To value, in short, what builds us as a true community of equal people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u135	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u136	Thank you, President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, President. I was commenting on it at the beginning of the afternoon and I repeat: today we have debated and voted on decrees that the Spanish of 2019 would not believe, the extension no more or less than a state of alarm and a shock plan worth 200 billion euros. That is precisely why, because this is a plenum of great importance for those who listen to us, in Citizens we do not understand that we must choose between losing our voice in one of the most important plenums in the history of democracy or no longer being exemplary before the citizens, but we will not stop giving a voice today in this plenum to 1 600 000 Spaniards who voted for us. We are debating the confinement of millions of Spaniards in their homes for a month and we are unable, as I said before, to organize a plenary session in a telematic way. We have shown that we can, that we have technical means, but there has been a lack of political will. How long are we gonna keep putting ourselves at risk? It is not enough to rely on a regulation that obviously does not contemplate the possibility of a global health pandemic, it would be missing more. Nor could a Council of Telematic Ministers be held and held. Look, there is already a flexible interpretation of the Rules of Procedure: in Rule 82.2, this Congress's Rules of Procedure limit the telematic voting procedure to cases of pregnancy, maternity, paternity or serious illness, and it seems clear that following the literality of these circumstances do not allow all Members who are not here tonight to use their telematic voting. President Batet herself argued flexibility in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure with regard to the oath or promise of compliance by separatist deputies with the Constitution. In Citizens we understand that if there is a reason to be flexible with the Regulation it is this exceptional circumstance of health emergency that, today and at this hour of the night, already has more than 3,500 dead, 3647 dead; only today 656. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, we politicians have failed to live up to what we are asking the Spaniards to do. In Citizens we have tried until the last moment - we have asked you, Mr President, and also Mrs Batet - in all possible ways, and yesterday we sent a new letter to the Bureau. Let us bear in mind that there have recently been positive people passing through this House in the COVID-19, to whom we wish a speedy recovery. However, they did not want to listen to us and we cannot leave without a voice 1 600 000 Spaniards who gave us their confidence, which today are thousands more, feeling represented in the role that Citizens are adopting in this crisis, that of being glued to the Spaniards and embodying responsibility, loyalty, support to the Government and proposals to get out of this situation. Today it is my honour to bear that voice of concord and union, and I do so after saving a quarantine in my house and scrupulously following the mandate and recommendations of the health authorities. After this constructive criticism - I hope -, certainly necessary for those who prevent our institutions from evolving with society and circumstances, I would like to focus on the issue that concerns us. As I said earlier, we have before us the Government's request to extend the state of alarm, which means that in principle the confinement of millions of Spaniards in their homes and the paralysis of non-essential activities will extend at least two more weeks. This is certainly a situation of enormous exceptionality which none of us here think we would ever get to discuss. Today we are going to leave this House supporting the extension of a state of alarm that we would never have seen ourselves in the situation of declaring, but we know, and the Spanish society is demonstrating, that staying at home is today the best tool we have to combat this virus that has already claimed the lives of more than 3000 people - of 3,500 updating the data, as I said a moment ago - in our country and that it is making life difficult for many self-employed people, workers and businesses. Spain is in mourning, and I know, like many of the Spaniards who listen to us, that it is not being and it will be easy, but we are going to turn our effort into self-esteem, because this crisis is also coming out of the best of us, and in my parliamentary group, in Citizens, we are convinced that we will come out more united and strengthened from this sad episode. I want to address the Spaniards from this rostrum, on behalf of my group, to tell them that we are a great country and whenever they test us we prove it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the opportunity of this parliamentary debate so that we can all realize that the exceptionality experienced by millions of Spaniards in their daily lives is also a national exceptionality. An episode, undoubtedly historical, of our democracy that we in Citizens hope will serve to, once and for all, leave as a country more united and less confronted. Look, the states of alarm, exception and site are regulated in article 116 of the Spanish Constitution and also in Organic Law 4/1981 of 1 June. These are exceptional situations during which, under certain precautions, certain fundamental rights, such as freedom of movement within the territory, are suspended. In Spain, in the whole history of democracy, only a partial precedent can be found ten years ago for the crisis of air traffic controllers. The reasons why it can be declared refer to serious changes in normalcy, which undoubtedly include health crises such as epidemics, which is the case that we are sadly dealing with. It is therefore important to understand not only the exceptional nature of the circumstances, but also the reasons behind them and the rights of those who, in spite of everything, are available and the role that the constitutional bodies, such as the Congress of Deputies, have to play in this situation. Well, as a party of the opposition, Citizens have once again proved to be a loyal party with a sense of state. Inés Arrimadas was the first to call for this state of alarm to be applied and did so after giving full support to the Government to take decisive and urgent action, because what doubt is there that precious time has been lost in the management of this crisis. Inaction has put many people at risk, while uncertainty has destroyed jobs. But, ladies and gentlemen, we live in a historic time and this is no time for reproaches because every reproach that is thrown into this House accompanies much more time lost and, in Citizens, we want to recover that time. Now our duty, the duty of all, must be to show loyalty to the Spanish and to the Government of the nation. It is time to be loyal also to all the people who are struggling to defeat the enemy, to all the people who are locked up in their house fear for their health, for their business or for their work. We must row together to save all the lives that are still in our hands to save and to save all the jobs we can. We come to this point, we have two options: to look at the past and to focus on criticism of the Government, or to look at the future and put solutions on the table. The Spaniards may be clear that they will always find Citizens on the side of solutions, of the future, of unity, holding hands and hoisting their shoulders, on the right side of history. For this are the State projects, such as Citizens, that put the interests of the country ahead of those of the party, which are useful tools to build a better Spain. However, without prejudice to our own responsibility and loyalty to the Government and the country as a whole, we have led and brought forward proposals as an opposition party in this Parliament and as a party of government in four autonomous communities; proposals that have to a large extent been heard by your Government, first, and admitted and included in the royal decrees, then. In Citizens we have been responsible since minute one. We are ahead of time to call for forceful action and we were also the first to close ranks with the Government of all Spaniards, despite the fact that this Government is not a Government of Citizens. We publicly gave our full support to the Executive to get it started at once and to speed up and take decisive and urgent action. We know that fear paralyzes, but in the race against the virus inaction is not something we can afford. Ladies and gentlemen, we reach out to the Government and grab our shoulders from four autonomous communities where we govern to save lives, first, and save jobs, then. We thank the Government for being in line with our proposals, but there is much more to be done on a path where complacency can also be a danger, but we are on time and we have taken the first steps in the right direction. I understand that there are still citizens who are concerned about their future, workers who continue to have to move to their jobs, Spaniards who cannot reconcile correctly after the closure of schools, self-employed people who do not yet know whether or not they will be able to benefit from the measures of the Royal Decree-Law. We are aware of that. We listen to you and understand you and we are working towards a solution for each of the Spaniards who are watching their world stagger over this crisis. We celebrate all the progress because those who win, I insist, as I said before, are the Spaniards. When we collaborate, we all win. Leaders of the Government, it is not just to issue decrees, it is also to listen, accept advice and apply proposals, even if they are not themselves. We are still at your side to continue working against the virus and in favour of the Spaniards. We will vote yes to the extension of the state of alarm and we continue to support the Government in addressing the urgent need to ensure supplies of health supplies. We are living absolutely black days, lives are being lost and no one would forgive us for not giving all of us for helping those who save them. We need to protect our health care providers more and better, invest in more ICU equipment and do more diagnostic testing. To all of them, to all of the health workers, I once again show our appreciation, but we must also protect those who work at the pharmacies, since they do not have masks or equipment; to the members of the State Security Forces and Corpses, who are given the rank of agent of the authority during the state of alarm and to our prison officials. Ladies and gentlemen, Citizens, you also call for the extension of the status of official authority to our prison officials, whom you seem to have forgotten in this decree. Don't turn your back on them. One of our amendments to this decree is aimed precisely at these prison officials, who work in extremely harsh conditions and need to reinforce the distancing. Let's not put them at risk anymore. Secondly, the Government must continue to transmit tranquillity and certainty to the Spanish. It must assure citizens that everything is being done and that the situation will be monitored. That is why another of our proposals for amendments is that the ministers must appear before this House in order to assess whether the current measures are being implemented and to decide whether they should be strengthened. The Spaniards are putting everything on their side, already fulfilling ten days of quarantine, let us answer them with the same responsibility and let us make this state of alarm work. Thirdly, another of our amendments seeks to ensure the urgent provision of health equipment and personal protective elements for all professionals in contact with at-risk individuals and groups, including caregivers of older persons, pharmacists and home care staff. With regard to the amendments of other groups, before the reply, I would just like to comment briefly that we will vote against both the proposals of nationalist parties - which, even in a crisis of health and human emergency like this, seek to talk about their navel and not their competences - and the proposals of parties such as VOX which, just as we are doing We can, impose an ideological agenda without worrying them too much about doing so in the midst of a very serious situation for our country. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we need a collective learning of this crisis and, in Citizens, we believe that this learning should be twofold. On the one hand, we need to be more prepared so that next time the blow is not so hard, so that there are not so many victims and so that our economy does not suffer in this way. We must significantly increase our current diagnostic capacity and not lower our guard again when the lives of citizens are at stake, that is, it is not enough to solve this crisis, when all this is over there can be no doubt that we have learned from our mistakes and that we will never make them again. For this reason, from Citizens we have proposed the obligation for the Government to prepare a detailed report on its actions to be presented orally at the Congressional Plenary within two months of the end of this state of alarm. On the other hand, there is our collective learning, the real one. We are being shown by all Spanish citizens. Have you seen the unit of our balconies in our country? Have you felt that all this is worth it for a society that is more united and less confronted? In Citizens we believe that the best face of this crisis is offering us citizenship. We must get out of this learning that when they come wrong we must be united and that some do know that we must be loyal, even if they do not rule our own. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that Citizens will continue to submit proposals to the Government to address this crisis. Our offer to approve national emergency budgets, designed, designed and calculated to deal with this crisis, is still standing. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to show that we are a great country, that if we work together we are able to overcome even a global epidemic. We are facing a historical crisis and history will judge us. Things can always get better, but in the face of an emergency like this, doing the best possible is an obligation. Let's keep moving forward together, please, without leaving anyone behind, because together the Spaniards are unstoppable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u137	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u138	Thank you very much, President. We are debating on this agenda item the authorization requested by the Government to extend the state of alarm in the light of the finding that the expansion of the coronavirus between citizens has not been halted and therefore the purpose for which the state of alarm was decreed has not been fulfilled. On the other hand, it is also discussed whether more containment measures are needed in the area of freedom of movement of persons, economic activity, and also, as a communicative vessel, whether the stabilization measures prepared to deal with the economic and social impact of the coronavirus pandemic are sufficient. The role of this House in this crisis, a crisis that has shifted from health to the economy and society, the role of this House on how to carry out activity during this pandemic, is intertwined with these two previous issues that I mentioned. Also, on what measures could be articulated in this last point for the monitoring and evaluation of those adopted and, if it makes full sense, that the Government should provide this House with written, structured and weekly information on the degree of implementation of the various measures adopted and on their assessment in terms of their effectiveness and efficiency, especially in a scenario that does not have fleeting visions, and the knowledge by this House of the information that must be very relevant both for the functions of impulse and control and, where appropriate, for the validation or authorization of specific government actions. In this respect, I would like to say to you that we have tabled a motion for a resolution which I trust will have the support of the House. With regard to another issue which I raised and which we considered to be the subject of debate, that is, whether or not the means of containment already laid down and in operation are sufficient, we consider that the extension in the terms requested and contained in the current Decree 463/2020 is the most appropriate at the moment, in view of what we consider to be the bulk of scientific and health opinion when they point out that perhaps with ten full days, now almost eleven, of confinement such as we have so far it is early to check whether the existing containment measures result in curbing the upward curve of the contagion and so that we can perceive that the number of cases is coming down, clearly and sustainably over time, and correlatively upward of the medical highs. In any case, with the containment measures that we are proposing today to extend the Government, if it were not perceived, as has already been pointed out by some of the previous spokespersons, which are beginning to have positive effects within a reasonable period of time, they should obviously be reconsidered and re-evaluated in their effectiveness. It has also been added by some other spokesman that we cannot lose sight of or fail to take into account that a full suspension of rights and freedoms is not within the reach of a state of alarm and that can only be reached through states of emergency and site with the limits set by 55.1 of the Constitution and also for the assumptions set out in Organic Law 4/1981. Ladies and gentlemen, our group believes that, for the moment, we must persist, and with the utmost zeal, in the current measures of the declared state of alarm, and we will therefore vote in favour of their extension. Our greatest effort, as a citizen we are, must be to excite the zeal in its fulfillment and to turn ourselves in the residences of our elders, without actions of what we consider to be an indiscriminate witch hunt like that initiated by the prosecution; to turn us into the health system by solving their lack of protection resources - masks, equipment, protective glasses, waterproof robes and a long etcetera - and their lack of assistance - breathers, beds, UCI beds, tests - as well as we must also turn in the early detection of the population through generalized tests and not only in the most serious cases as to date. We are aware of the international tension of demand on the supply of sanitary material to deal with the coronavirus, and we are aware that in these pandemic circumstances the management of these flows is made more precise than in other circumstances of normality, but that does not take away so that the effectiveness of the measures arranged from a criterion of functionality, efficiency and efficiency is evaluated, because, as sometimes happens in life, the best intentions are those that cocoquina the hell. [[The lady]] Our greatest effort must be at this moment to deal with this serious and exceptional situation by intensifying and insisting from all levels of government and parliamentarians on preventing and containing the coronavirus and mitigating its health impact, but also its social and economic impact. That is why we believe that in the economic and social fields, where the pandemic has brutally impacted, we must be extremely sensitive and balanced in order to contain and mitigate its effects and to stabilize the situation of economic and social disruption that we are experiencing in the form of loss of businesses and jobs and the helplessness of the most disadvantaged. It is urgent, as I said, to give support and protection to the productive and social fabric, so we propose that for self-employed workers the Government consider increasing the rate of invoicing in order to be able to access the extraordinary benefit. With 25% income it is impossible for the vast majority to live and maintain activity. We also propose that the Government consider for SMEs and self-employed persons a moratorium on the payment of rents for their business premises or on the payment of mortgages for the same premises, and neither apply to them moratoria interest for deferrals or fractions of the payment of taxes, without prejudice to the fact that the tax debt is entered in so many other monthly instalments after the postponement has expired, as it is being disposed of by the foreign estates, because we consider that 3.70 % interest on moratoria interest is currently abusive. Or that the public guarantees that guarantee liquidity are intended preferably for these groups of autonomous and SMEs because they are the sectors with the most serious liquidity problems and that these same guarantees are processed through ICO agreements with the mutual guarantee societies existing in the different autonomous communities, since they are the ones that best know the reality of the industrial fabric of their territories. And we ask that, among the terms of the guarantees, the Government consider setting the interest rate on the loans. In addition, in this situation, the Government must give maximum agility to the handling of ERTEs, because this depends on the tranquility and subsistence of too many people, as is the fact that companies must also comply with the measures imposed by the contagion. Finally - and I am finalizing, Madam President - we propose to the Government that it consider the desirability, and forward to this House its assessment as soon as possible, of establishing a public guarantee income on a transitional basis for those most disadvantaged as a result of the economic and social effects of the health crisis and considering in a singular way, among other collectives, carers, household workers and individual tenants. I finish in the same way that I started my first speech in this session, with a thank you to all people for their work in these difficult circumstances and with a memory to all people who are suffering. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you very much. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, no one in his or her right mind will deny that the measures contained in this alarm decree are necessary to control the spread of that virus which every day brings society to a permanent state of uneasiness, concern and fear. It is therefore also obvious that there is a need to extend the time frame for such measures to continue to be implemented; it is obvious that this decree allows for the maintenance of containment measures that could prevent the expansion of COVID-19, but it is clear that more drastic measures are needed in order to achieve this objective. What is being done is, in our view, clearly insufficient. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the confinement of the population during the weekend in their homes serves little if Monday, Tuesday, today, tomorrow, the meters, the bus stations, the companies, are filled with people who are forced to go to work, because the confinement decreed does not contemplate a measure that is necessary and urgent today: the closure of all non-essential economic activity. Mr Sánchez, I am almost the last to pass through this rostrum today - they are about to give twelve o'clock at night - and virtually all the groups that have made it possible for you to be President of the Government are asking you to stop the non-essential activity. Don't you think you should attend to this request? Don't you think it's enough for seven groups to ask? Furthermore, I am sure you will also find support for this measure within your Government. We have been repeating it without ceasing: the sooner the total confinement is decreed, the sooner we will overcome the health crisis and the less the economic impact will be. Or, in other words, the longer we delay this measure, the longer the health crisis will be and the greater the economic impact. And no, we don't propose to give the switch and suddenly turn off the activity. What we propose is to close all activities that are not substantial in order to make the general plan of collision against the coronavirus really effective. Because the reality is that what is achieved through house confinement is lost by the obligation to attend non-essential face-to-face work. Listen to Minister Calviño say that we must maintain the textile industry would seem appropriate if it were for the production of the material that is needed to deal with the coronavirus, because, ladies and gentlemen, we already know that the trade is closed and that there is no one who needs now to buy pants or sweaters. That is why we say that the suspension of all this non-essential economic activity must be considered. We were already late yesterday. In all scenarios, a time is coming when much of industrial production is being closed. It happened in Wuhan, it has passed in Italy - late, but they have done so - and yesterday Quebec, with 628 confirmed cases of coronavirus and 4 deaths, has paralyzed its non-essential economic activity. Finally, we are dealing with the debate between production and health, and we believe that health is the priority in this debate. The economic consequences of the measures we are proposing must also be assessed, but not only those affecting large companies, which is what is being thought of when the measure of paralysing non-essential economic activity is rejected. For the popular classes fear of the virus is added the panic of losing work, the lack of resources to deal with bills or the risk of losing basic rights such as housing, sufficient food or the well-being of minors. The objective of the institutions should be to design an orderly closure of non-essential economic activity and a plan to address its economic consequences. The families, the workers, the workers, the industrial and commercial fabric on the street are the ones who need to be rescued now. We are facing a drama for public health, but this is also a humanitarian drama, a drama that clearly shows that in the neoliberal economic model the dominant logic establishes that we live as we can and leave ourselves, that we live to work and do not work to live decent lives. First, public health was weakened by cuts and today we are condemned to work so that the wheel of capitalism does not stop, even if the fuel that moves that wheel is our own lives. Our lives, ladies and gentlemen, people's lives are worth more than the economic benefits of big companies and capital. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that, from the point of view of Euskal Herria, this decree has intervened from a plume of essential competences for the Basque Autonomous Community and Navarra and it has again been shown that forty-two years have not been enough to comply with the statutes but that in a minute they are able to abolish them. In any case, and leaving this debate aside today, we do want to make it clear that it is also a huge mistake to believe that such centralisation ensures the automatic effectiveness of the decisions taken. The competent authorities of the Basque Autonomous Community and Navarra and the local institutions have an irreplaceable knowledge of the specific problems, a knowledge which is for the general benefit of a policy of collaboration, even more so in a situation like that which we live in. Therefore, in our view it is a wrong strategy. It is not the same Madrid as Zalduondo or Barakaldo, it is not the same Madrid as Barañain or Altsasu. The management of the crisis requires a detailed analysis of the contagion process and it is essential to do the opposite of what the Government has proposed: we must give resources and decision-making capacity to administrations such as Basque or Navarra so that they can develop an effective strategy according to the specific situation of each place, because it is our institutions that are on the ground. Finally, I cannot resist commenting on the Spanish Army's omnipresent presence on television and media. This is not about Spanish patriotic sophasia or understanding a humanitarian crisis in terms of war. Social protection and health resources, that's all. It's worth whitening the image of the Spanish Army. Enough press conferences with military lexicon, patriotic speeches, medals and galons. You can't start a press appearance on a day when there are hundreds of dead with the phrase: No news on the front. You can't. Less military and more sanitary, because this is not a war, ladies and gentlemen, this is a catastrophe, and they are not soldiers who respond to us with all their courage to this crisis, they are doctors, nurses, cleaners, cashiers, taxi drivers, farmers, and these heroes do not wear torches or medals, wear white robes, wear thermometers, wear gloves and carry a humanity worthy of admiration. Because no, you don't have to prepare for a war, but for life, and life can only be defended with public spending on health, education and research, and public money must be to investigate systems, to stop epidemics, to make diagnoses and vaccines, as well as to protect the most vulnerable groups. We know that the state of alarm must be broadened, of course, in the same way that we know that in 15 days' time we will be here again to give the green light to a further extension, because it will be necessary, and we will say again that it is insufficient if the necessary measures are not taken. That is why our vote will be on abstention, because we do not believe that everything we think needs to be done to stop this pandemic. In any case, we are convinced that we will emerge from this crisis. And when someone has the temptation to win from some power, we will remind you that this was possible because of the work, delivery and solidarity of the popular classes, nurses and nurses, doctors and doctors, cellists, research technicians, supermarket workers, pharmacy employees, and all the workers who maintained the activity necessary for life to continue. We will remember that it was possible for the surrender of the working class risking its own life. Today, from Euskal Herria Bildu, and as a Basque, independentist and leftist, I want to send a hug to all Basque citizens and also solidarity in that embrace with all the workers and the peoples of the State, and especially with the people of Madrid, because what unites us today is not to belong to the same nation, but to the same class that fights side by side against this pandemic. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u141	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, which now has its turn in reply, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u142	Montse Santolino, a Catalan journalist, wrote in La Directa this week: neither this is a war, nor are we your soldiers. In fact, we declare ourselves infatuated with his communicative policy of terror. This is a virus, it's no external enemy. If you turn the virus into an enemy, all the people who suffer it are carriers of this enemy, and precisely what is going to save our lives is not the ethics of the common enemy, but the ethics of the common good. This is a virus that is giving death check to the casino economy, which does not close on Sundays, wrote Rafael Poch in La Vanguardia the other day. And the first evidence: that the state incorporates the logic of the re public in economic management is not an economy of war, it is a democratic reason. And the second evidence: the military won't save our lives; the weapons don't heal and the wars just leave us victims. And the first contradiction: we understand that there are public order functions, but the Ministry of the Interior has provided data on more than one hundred thousand complaints and about six hundred people detained; however, of the six hundred thousand tests purchased and announced we do not yet know how many tests have been carried out. You guys put in more fines than proof? We just didn't get it. And the second contradiction: you have deployed the army to the streets, but every morning thousands of workers have to go to industries and workplaces that are not decisive for life. We don't understand either. And some questions. Are you basing the reason for a state without rights? Are you talking about unity as you refocus sovereignty, as you dislodge the Generalitat of Catalonia, that of the Valencia Country, even the Government of Murcia, who are calling for total confinement? Are you using terror as a form of government? We are very concerned about this. Hannah Arendt said that terror is the essence of totalitarian domination. We are so concerned about the daily communication of terror, with gentlemen dressed as soldiers, that you are not confining. And the obvious and overwhelming solution: it will come late and cost a lot of lives. We understand the gravity of the situation, but, I repeat, we do not need weapons or military or uniforms. We need bread, roof, health and total confinement. We need a social shock plan. Many organizations in the Catalan countries and throughout the Spanish State have said this, and many parliamentary groups have said this today: they strengthen public health; they intervene in private health without economic compensation. And, Mr. Casado, let me tell you: do not be ashamed to take the applause on the balconies when you are responsible for the biggest cuts in health. Sanitary cuts kill and have political leaders. They protect workers from essential services, stop non-essential productive economic activity and redirect industry towards the production of health equipment. Ban layoffs, implement basic income, put more resources in the fight against macho violence. They release prisoners over the age of sixty-five and seriously ill women. They suspend the payment of rents, mortgages, basic supplies, and stop all evictions, all of them, if there is no more. Close the CIEs, stop the deportations, repeal the Aliens Act and guarantee the public resources for the shock plan, which the bank returns the rescue. To the Government. The dead are numbered by thousands and the crisis is evident. Be brave. Bread, roof, health and total confinement. And we can. Be brave. Please explain, if necessary, what is happening within the Council of Ministers. People will be with you. He was talking about Echenique that we don't have much certainty, and it's true. We, the only one we have, increasingly evident, as Rosa from Luxembourg said, is that either socialism or barbarism, and it is not just an ideological position, it is objective evidence, Zizek said today, and the measures taken in Italy, even in France, prove it. And to the people, to the workers of our people and of the rest of the peoples of the State, in the face of isolation we have the hope of mutual support and of the common good. Thank you to all the people who endure the Catalan countries in a crisis situation like this. And I end up on a date. This week, when we saw Cuban doctors arriving in Italy, I want to quote the great Fidel Castro, who at times like this serves as inspiration. He said in Buenos Aires in 2003: Our country does not launch bombs against other peoples or send missiles on airplanes to bomb cities; the tens of thousands of scientists that our country, our doctors, has, are educated in the idea of saving lives.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u143	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Mr Sayas López has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Good night now, ladies and gentlemen. I want my first words to be to transfer my personal and party affection to the victims of this virus, to so many families who are suffering not only from the loss of a family member, but also from the special difficulties of saying goodbye at a time like this; also for the sick, for those who have been infected by this virus, to wish them a speedy recovery. I believe that the low level of the two interventions we have just heard, which represent the most sectarian nationalism in our country, are so defined by themselves that they do not deserve an answer. I just want to tell you one thing, if what worries you most right now is the Spanish Army deployed on the streets of Spain, that says a lot about your political formations. And I will also tell you something else, the vast majority of Catalan, Basque and, of course, Navarro citizens, whom I represent in this House, are grateful for the task that the army is doing in our communities, in the homes of the elderly, disinfecting public places and leaving the skin to help us all of society. [[applause]] Mr President, we are experiencing a moment of extraordinary difficulty. At a time like this, it was said the other day and I reiterate it today, the Government of Spain will be able to count on the loyalty and support of the Union of the Navarro People, a loyalty and support that must be understood in terms of commitment to our country, but not as a blank check or as an acritic position. If it is true that all the parties that are part of the opposition must be demanded at this moment of view, responsibility of State and vision of country, the Government must demand correct in its decisions, guarantee of public services, protection of citizens and flee at all times from frivolity, and I believe that little of this, unfortunately, is being seen in some actions of the Government. The declaration of the state of alarm and its subsequent extension, which is now before this House, imposes a restriction on the rights and freedoms of Spanish citizens and entails a huge sacrifice for them. That enormous sacrifice forces the Government to succeed, and many of us believe that perhaps we have gone so far because the measures have not been taken in time or in their proper dimension. This has made us make tougher, more difficult decisions and become one of the countries most hit by the coronavirus. That is why, today that we are discussing the extension of the state of alarm, we should ask ourselves whether this is a definitive measure or whether, on the contrary, we should be talking now about whether it is necessary to further reduce the contact between us, circumscribe work and professional activity exclusively to the strategic sectors and thus prevent the virus from spreading further. It is true that this is a difficult weighting, and that weighting of vital risks and personal and health risks, together with the weighting of economic and social risks, is the Government's responsibility to do so, and in that weighting which the Government is doing and which is submitted to this House today is what we are going to rely on, not without saying that it is sometimes better to take tough and drastic measures but that they are shortened in time than to extend without measures because they have been taken more laxly. The president said before that we need time right now, and that's why we don't have time to waste. We can't afford a single mistake anymore. Spanish society is acting in an exemplary way. I think we have all understood that in the absence of a vaccine, as the president said before and as Ignacio López Goñi, a professor of Microbiology at the University of Navarra, said the other day in an interview on Navarra Television, when there is no vaccine, the vaccine is each of us. That exemplaryness in Spanish society we have also seen in all those toilets that in the absence of resources are doing tutorials on YouTube explaining to their colleagues how to make a robe with a garbage bag. We are seeing that exemplary in large companies, but also in small workshops and, of course, also in the convents, which are making masks or robes for the toilets. We are seeing it in all the people who have 3D printers and are contributing their sand granite making individual protective equipment. This exemplaryness of Spanish society forces the Government to succeed, forces it to protect those on the front line, the autonomous and municipal State Security Forces and Bodies, emergency personnel and, of course, health care workers, because we are a country with an indecent rate of contagion in the health field. And when I talk about health care, I am also referring to pharmacists, who the other day in government statements felt that they lacked respect. I believe that the pharmacy, which is often the gateway to the health system, should also be considered by the government. It is up to the Government to strengthen the health system, but it is also up to it to escape frivolity. Mr President, address the Spaniards whenever you have something to tell us, but avoid appearances without new data, without answers and without anything to provide. It has a responsibility to fly a country that is suffering a lot, that it never thought it would have to live something like this, but to do so it has an exemplary society, it has the support of the vast majority of this House, with excellent public and private services and, of course, with the strength of a nation that knows how to overcome adversity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you very much, Catalina. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will support the request to extend the state of alarm in correspondence with the Forum's commitment to support the Government in these serious and painful moments in the recent history of Spain. We are already in the initial minutes of the thirteenth day of the population's confinement due to the pandemic caused by the COVID-19. Today, it is not a day to demand explanations as to why the single command was translated into a delaying or paralysing organ of supplies to certain autonomous communities that had orders in place, nor to call for responsibilities for the palmarious contradictions around this emergency. The extension of the state of alarm has to involve a May, May, May for the Government to rush the arrivals of essential material with which to protect the well-deserved health personnel, that of the elderly residences, the State Security Forces and Corpses, so many people who work in a self-sacrificing and sacrificial way, also our soldiers, who sweep streets, set up field hospitals and help those who need it. An essential material for convenient care for sick people; a material that arrives short and late, or does not arrive. Nor did the rapid tests for the detection of coronavirus appear in Asturias today, of which the neighbouring autonomous communities do. In any case, on behalf of Forum I express my gratitude to the Spanish companies and to the multitude of people who have used their means to obtain material at the other end of the world or their ingenuity or skill to make it in Spain as respirators, masks, screens and other devices and items as basic as necessary and urgent. Ladies and gentlemen, in the socio-economic field, support for the extension of the state of alarm is also a call for the government to anticipate and not continue its tactics of going to trailer. Other measures are essential to alleviate and curb the deep crisis, unemployment and recession that has already begun, and to get out of it as soon as possible. The measures taken so far are insufficient and must be speeded up by listening to business organisations and trade unions, making the aid promised to the autonomous communities a reality, and by giving the battle in Europe. Mr President, the usefulness of your appearances loses value when you do not go to Parliament to hear the arguments of the speakers or the proposals of interest, come from wherever they come from. The Congress would have been strengthened, if you had listened to me last Wednesday and agreed to put forward a Europlan like the Marshall Plan, which we from Forum literally proposed to you. An initiative that deserved no response or comment from him. The Journal of Sessions accurately reflects this. Send Mr Redondo that it is not good to prepare a president replicas previously canned, as they nullify the essential virtues of the exchange of ideas and proposals. However, since it is never too late if this is good, I thank you, Mr Sánchez, for accepting our proposal for the Europlan in your televised address from Moncloa and for having also raised it in Brussels, and for congratulating you yesterday on the initiative of the President of the European Commission. Finally, with the memory of the victims and their families, and since the conviction that Spain and the world are going to overcome this pandemic, I would like to encourage the citizens to attend to the official instructions and to persevere exemplaryly in this long struggle against COVID-19, and the Government to change the model of Aló Presidente, for example of 'blood, effort, sweat and tears'. Please don't forget the word 'effort' in the quote. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u147	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, lastly, Mr Guitarte Gimeno.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u148	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank all those who are fighting the virus, the health workers and all the workers who are working with risk and effort from the other sectors, as well as a special reminder to all those who have lost friends and family at this very difficult time, to whom we send our most sincere embrace. Ladies and gentlemen, we need unity. The Spanish society is suffering the effects of a widespread and global pandemic that runs like gunpowder and that has become an urgent necessity for the entire citizenship of this country the union without cracks to row all in the same direction. We need unity because the effects of the pandemic on the Spanish health system are very similar to that caused by war conflicts. We need unity because this pandemic is global, because alerts in the world are growing - India has confined 13 billion people, 17% of the world's population - and because our country's data are still staggering. A few months ago the Turolenses gave their vote to Teruel Existe, leaving in a background their ideology because with them no one had solved the problems of the province. As ordinary citizens, we now have to ask them to put aside the excessively critical attitude and become a constructive position. In this House we have been able, and we are able to do, to bring ideas and proposals to a government that has so far been open to receiving them. Now more than ever, there is little use in ideologies, attacks, wanting to be brighter than any other in an intervention; now there is only unity and joint effort to be able to overcome this virus. As Rowling said: We will be as strong as we are united, and as weak as we are divided. We therefore support the extension of the state of alarm because it is clear that it is essential to curb this virus, as is the effort and unity of the whole country, of all its citizens and of all its administrations. This pandemic is leading us to value life in a different, more humane way, and this is going to change this country, its citizens, and I hope that so are the policies that are being promoted in the coming decades. He is teaching us that first we are the citizens, all of us, with equality and without difference between territories and that being united and together is essential to be stronger. Last Wednesday we recommended intelligence and equity to the government to deal with this pandemic. And we repeat it now too, especially by the time we succeed in overcoming it and the whole of society we are faced with resuming economic and vital activity because it is going to be hard and we must avoid it being more for some than for others. In China they isolated a province of sixty million inhabitants, more than Spain, and thirty-two provinces around them supplied it, supported it and maintained it. In Spain we have not had that alternative, nor have we had that fate with the support of other States of the European Union. There's something wrong. We have always said that we need more Europe and now we absolutely see how essential it is, how we need a strong and solidarity European Union between their countries in order to be able to face exceptional situations like the one we are experiencing. At such a difficult time, we see how many shortages Spain has, for example, in self-supply and how we are depending on markets that ignore us. I hope that it will help us to truly appreciate the importance of certain sectors, such as farmers, farmers and strategic industry, which must be addressed as a matter of priority. Surely we will have the opportunity to change our development model, to have a more balanced country because it works more and better and because it is also fairer, to take advantage of all our human potential and to foster innovation and sectors that we now see as essential to being self-sufficient. We can do it. We have a chance to learn and change to a better country. Let's not forget this when this pandemic passes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a difficult day for all those of us who have come to this rostrum. I came to this Chamber in 2015 and I never imagined during these five years - in which my group, and you know it well, has gone through many vicissitudes - that we were going to find ourselves in a situation like the current one and that for me it was going to be so difficult and so hard to get into a debate because of the emotional tear that our country is experiencing and that all our compatriots are living because, as all the spokesmen who preceded me and also the President of the Government said, there are already thousands of Spaniards who have lost their loved ones, their families or friends, because many families have not even been able to say goodbye to them or accompany them in their last hours. I know there are gaps that are impossible to fill, but we would like to bring to all these families the affection and warmth of a society that shares its pain. I would also like to send all our affection and encouragement to all the patients who are currently fighting the disease, several of whom are fellow Members of this House. I want to tell you that you are not alone, that you have the support of society as a whole and especially of a healthcare staff that every day, every hour, every minute, makes us feel more proud. And precisely because of the hardness of this crisis, precisely because of the sacrifice that we are making millions of Spaniards and because of the pain that this disease is causing, I want to be very clear in the following. Since the state of alarm was established, there have already been over 100,000 complaints of non-compliance with anti-virus measures. Every person who fails to observe the state of alarm, every person who goes on the street without need, who does not comply with the measures established, each of these people, is putting at risk his life and his health, but also that of his family or friends and that of the rest of Spanish society. And allow me to express myself in these terms, even if they are harsh, because the situation is and demands of us. Each of these people who lack their responsibility becomes a potential agent for transmission of the virus and challenges the efforts of millions of Spaniards. Today we all have an obligation to others. What each of us does depends on the health of others. That is why, as the President has done, I ask all Spaniards and Spaniards to act responsibly, to listen to the health authorities and to help the effort that we are all making to overcome this crisis. The figures of non-compliance themselves already point out that we are an immensely supportive society, that we are giving an example of responsibility and integrity, but we have to close all the gaps through which a disease can enter that can multiply the damage for every leftover it finds. Every second we scratch the epidemic counts; every day, every hour, every minute we are able to cut off the disease is measured in lives we save and pain we avoid. Hence, the extension of the alarm state. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the paradoxes of this crisis is that it forces us to physically separate, but unites us as a society, makes us realize that we are a community, that we have always been, that we depend and have always depended on everyone else. The example that millions of our fellow citizens are giving is worthy of admiration and many of you have highlighted it in your interventions: young people who help the elderly, traders who assist those who cannot leave the house, cleaning staff, supermarkets, pharmacies, who continue to serve our needs day by day, and thousands of health professionals who are our first defence barrier and who are exposed every day to help the sick and to save lives. The words of appreciation of a country that every day expresses its gratitude to them from the windows and balconies are exhausted. We, as political leaders, must be the reflection of the best of our society. We have a responsibility to set an example in a society that has joined forces to deal with an epidemic. We can do the best of ourselves, just as society is doing. We can strive to demonstrate more unity, more responsibility, but we cannot afford to give less than the rest of society. I was telling you last Wednesday, and I think we all agree on that. We will not come out of this crisis separated or divided, from this crisis we will not come out looking at each other on our own, from this crisis we will not come out if we act only as parties. We will come out of this crisis as a community, we will come out as a society, and that demands loyalty for all of us, demands high-mindedness, demands responsibility for us, because - it was said a moment ago - it is not the moment of individualism, of thinking about oneself, it is not the time for political vantageism, it is not the time to confront, it is the time of political and institutional loyalty, not with the Government, but with the country. The Spaniards suffered the biggest crisis that our democracy has experienced, a crisis that is already charging a very high toll in pain and in life. To defend our country today is to show unity, because we all have one goal, there is only one struggle, there is no other, and especially those who have institutional responsibilities we must put the general interest before any political or party interest. It is time to add efforts and wills, not to add votes. The virus does not recognize borders between administrations or between autonomous communities, and the response we give it must be responsible and loyal, in substance and in forms, in words and in facts. If someone does not recognize the moment of responsibility at this time, he will never recognize it. If someone doesn't find the space to think about the general interest right now, they'll never find it. The Government of Spain is making an enormous effort to respond to this crisis and I would like to express to the President of the Government the gratitude of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the work it is doing, a thank you that I ask him to transfer to all the members of the Executive. We have taken the most restrictive measures of our environment, responsible measures that address the reality of our country, our situation and our population - I repeat: of our country, our situation and our population, not of China, nor of Korea, nor Singapore, nor of the United States or any other -; measures advised by the World Health Organization and by the knowledge of experts and scientists because, ladies and gentlemen, this pandemic is the first to hit the Western countries hard, but it is not the first to suffer from humanity in recent years. We all have our opinion, but as politicians I believe we must act with caution. Let us listen to those who have experience, let us lead the answer - of course, that is our role and our responsibility - but let us listen as the Government is doing to scientists and experts. The Government has taken action in all areas; measures for families, for businesses, for self-employed people, for workers who have to stay at home or who have to go to work because they provide essential services; measures to help health personnel, to ensure solidarity between territories, to ensure that the effort is as efficient as possible; responsible and ambitious measures, even when necessary, even tough ones. Therefore, from the Socialist Group we support the proposal of the President of the Government for the extension of the state of alarm to buy time, to win the virus. We believe that it is a necessary step along with all those that have been taken in recent weeks, and I am sure that they will soon begin to show results. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy, our democracy, is not a set of institutions and parties, it is above all a commitment; a commitment to a better society, a commitment to a more humane and fairer life, to responsibility towards others. Each of us has come to politics on different paths, but I am sure that in that momentum that brought us here they had much to do with some of those values. Today is the time to remember what brought us all together in this task because that is where we can find ourselves, and from there, from that union, we will start to leave this crisis behind. Today is the time to remember what brought us here: responsibility, commitment and service to society. That is how this group understands the contributions that have been made to the alarm decree by all the parliamentary groups in this House, to which I shall briefly refer, and I hope that they will understand this because it is one less twenty in the morning. The bulk vote on the measures obliges us to reject some that seem very reasonable to us, although I am sure - and the President has said so - that the Government will study them and assume them as its own. There are others that will allow me to prefer not to mention myself because they have nothing to do with or respond to technical or health issues, but they are profoundly ideological, like some that have already referred to some of the spokespersons such as Mr Echenique or Mr Simancas in the previous intervention and that would lead us to leave without any kind of health control - I insist, without any kind of health control - hundreds of thousands of citizens living in our territory. [[Mr. Abascal Conde makes gestures to the speaker]] I see you know what proposal I'm talking about, Mr. Abascal. At the moment - also referring to other proposals from other political parties - what we must do is unite to fight the epidemic, not take advantage of the epidemic to separate us. I reminded them a moment ago what had brought us here: responsibility, unity and loyalty, commitment and service to society. That is why you will allow me, Mr Casado, to tell you that I do not understand the intervention you have made in this rostrum. My spokesman, Mr. Simancas, told one of his spokespersons, Mr. Garcés. You can't be Captain a posteriori, you can't say I already warned you, that we already knew this was going to happen. I will give you a fact, Mr Casado, that you already saw what could happen in Spain - I think you said it at the end of February - on 10 March in this Congress of Deputies, given the news that we had just received that there were several positives in various parliamentary groups and that the third parliamentary group of the House, for that reason, was going to be absent from the Chamber, your parliamentary group opposed the postponement of the plenary on 10th and you wanted to have 350 Members here from all the territories that could be vectors of the disease. [[Applauds]] I'm going to ask you to take responsibility and keep the same speech for at least fifteen days, Mr. Married. It cannot be that fifteen days ago the government hid behind science, as you yourself said here, and that today they are saying that we put ideology before science. Either one thing or the other, Mr. Married. We and the Government have always been guided by the recommendations of experts, technicians and scientists. The only enemy we have is the virus, Mr. Married. That's why I'm not going to blame you for a few things, but I'm going to think about it. He talked about senior residences, resources and responsibility. All in the same sentence and in a way that reproaches the Government of Spain. By responsibility, by loyalty, by unity, as the Socialist Party understands it, I will not enter into that debate. Believe me, we'll do it, but we'll do it later, when all this happens, Mr. Married. Neither are we going to talk about privatizations or health cuts, or about what twenty years of health cuts have taken in dealing with the virus in some autonomous communities that have been the epicenter of the pandemic, because, as I say, the only enemy we have right now is the coronavirus. There is also another Captain a posteriori, in this case visionary, because Mr Abascal has come out here to tell us that they already knew from January or February what could happen in our country. Perhaps it would have been good if you had told your secretary general, Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina, who was first in Milan, then in Vitoria, and then went to Vistalegre on March 8 to kiss and hug you all, Mr. Abascal. Here all we have to care about is being united, responsible and committed to the solutions to this pandemic and this health crisis that can become - which is already - a social crisis. That is what this parliamentary group is going to work for. That is why last Wednesday I finished my speech by telling the President of the Government that what was needed, when needed and where needed. That is why today, a week later, I repeat to you the same thing: Mr President, whatever is necessary, whenever it is necessary and wherever it is necessary. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u151	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you very much. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u152	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to you carefully; let me therefore begin with some general questions which you raise in the form of political cacophony and which deserve a precise answer in order to order the debate. On the late intervention of the Government - it has been raised by some parliamentary groups -, the present Government - we must remember the things as they are - it was presented on 12 January and the ministers took office on Monday, that is, the following day, on 13 January. I ask: Do you know how many days it took to set up the Standing Committee on Follow-up to COVID-19? On 13 January, the same day, his first meeting was held. Since then he has held working meetings every day and even twice in the same day. The team of the Ministry of Health reacted from the first moment: fifty days before the first death in our country, two months before the declaration of the state of alarm. Coordination with the autonomous authorities was also activated: the first meeting on COVID-19 with the participation of the autonomous communities was held on 24 January, I insist, the Government took possession on 12 January. The Interterritorial Council, with the presence of the health advisers of the various autonomous communities, was held on 5 February, one month before there was a deceased in our country. About the underestimation of danger. What doubt it is that if we live in this situation is because we have not been able to stop it, this is obvious, this cannot be discussed, but that is an a posteriori trial, ladies and gentlemen, and it is also evidence that with what we know today we all acted differently: the Chinese authorities would have acted differently; the French authorities, the Italian authorities, the British authorities, the Americans, we all acted differently, but there is a circumstance that when we acted we did not know what we know today. I invite, ladies and gentlemen, those who raise this issue to review the interventions of our health experts; they were public interventions, ladies and gentlemen. I will take some example: on March 7, Dr. Simon - and I quote textually - warned about senior residences and said the following: The options must be valued by the autonomous communities; it is always better to overact than to stay short. Ladies and gentlemen, this is no time for criticism, but all the interventions of the health experts are public and the words of the politicians, also those of the autonomous communities, are also public. I would like to return for a moment to the question of late intervention, late in comparison with whom, ladies and gentlemen? Late compared to who? To this day and since the first news about the new virus, six plenary sessions have been held in Congress, five in the Senate; there have been three control sessions in Congress and two in the Senate. How many parliamentary initiatives have been registered at that time? I'm telling you, zero. [[Rumors]] Late, ladies and gentlemen, in comparison with which countries? With what other countries? With the United Kingdom?, with the United States?, with France?, with Germany?, with Italy?, with Poland?, with Canada? Here we go, ladies and gentlemen... [[Rumors]] You have to be humble. Here... here, ladies and gentlemen... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, please. [[Rumors]] I beg your respect!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u154	Let us take, ladies and gentlemen, some criteria to know exactly when the various governments acted. Spain - it has been said here; I have said it and the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group has also said it - has been one of the first countries to act, and has done so decisively. Let us place the issue at its true point. Spain when did it pass the alarm decree? He approved it when we had 4231 infected; Italy approved it with 9172 infected, the United Kingdom with 5687 infected and France with 6573 infected. Spain passed the state of alarm decree when, unfortunately, in our country - and there are many - we had 120 dead, the United Kingdom 281 and Italy more than 400 Italians. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must be humble and place the issue at its true point, because all the countries have been invaded surprisingly. About March 8th. Ladies and gentlemen, almost all European countries celebrated the demonstrations on 8 March with absolute normality. This was the case in Paris, Berlin, Vienna or Brussels. In France there were even demonstrations of the yellow vests until Saturday 14 March, when we declared the state of alarm, and even the next day the first round of the municipal elections in France was held and, logically, they had to suspend the second round of those elections. This is the first consideration I wanted to make to the various groups that have criticized this alleged lack of endurance or late decision on the presentation of the state of alarm. Mr. Casado, you lead a party that rules in different autonomous communities, some of them very affected by the coronavirus pandemic, and therefore you should know how to distinguish the urgency from the importance at a time when the sense of state is essential. Now the urgent thing - I repeat, the urgent thing - is to slow down the propagation curve, to resist the toughest days - I have said it in the various appearances, that this week was going to be very hard, very hard - and to prepare ourselves for possible repercussions of the pandemic while we are looking for a vaccine. We live, ladies and gentlemen, exceptional times that require exceptional attitudes and sacrifices. When, for example, farmers stop their legitimate protests to focus on filling our storehouses or when Germany - and here it has been remembered by some intervener - is willing to break its fiscal orthodoxy and assume a historic public debt we are sent a clear message, and it is time to be united. Look, Mr. Married, in this battle you and the opposition as a whole are all allies to me in front of the virus. Now we can't afford differences. What I am demanding is unity and loyalty, which is what I said in my first intervention, the same, by the way, which shows the opposition forces where other political parties govern, such as you, for example; the loyalty of the opposition on this issue in Madrid, Andalusia, Castile and León or Murcia, or, if you prefer, the loyalty shown in most of the countries in our European environment by the opposition forces; the loyalty, for example, of the British Labour Party; the loyalty of the Portuguese right, which expresses by the mouth of its spokesman - and I quote textually - the following words: We do not see them as the government of an opposing party, but as the Government of Portugal to which we must all help at this time; the loyalty of the opposition of the right-wing in France, when they manifest - and quote textually -: In view of the extent of the epidemic, we do not speak of a majority and of an opposition, what there is a single united and united National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Casado, the extent of this tragedy was not known, nor was it known at the time when it was to begin, nor was it known by the political leaders of the other countries; nor did you know it, nor do we know what day and how much damage this epidemic will bring to an end. If anyone knew, as I said a week ago, I would go up to this rostrum and announce it, but no one will, ladies and gentlemen. What we do know is that this will end sooner and with less damage if we think together, if we act together and if we fight together. That is what I formally propose to you today: unity and loyalty. I also ask for solidarity on a day like today with the House as a whole. Solidarity especially with the Community of Madrid, whose figures are tragic and overwhelm us all, in particular the neighbours and neighbours of the Community of Madrid. Such solidarity is now more necessary than ever. Madrid has always been, ladies and gentlemen, very generous with all of Spain. Madrid has always welcomed everyone, no one feels outside Madrid, and now Madrid needs the whole of Spain, ladies and gentlemen. Today is Madrid, but tomorrow, as I said in my initial speech, it can be Catalonia, and the day after tomorrow other autonomous communities, and we must be united to win the virus. The virus, as you know, is attacking the Community of Madrid with greater virulence in this first phase. The situation of the murdered and the hospitals in our capital is on the verge of collapse, and this is the moment when all Spaniards will be in solidarity with the Madridns. The Government of Spain shall ensure equity and provide health resources to hospitals in the Community of Madrid coming from other parts of Spain which do not logically have these saturation problems. That solidarity of all Spaniards will help Madrid at this critical moment and later that solidarity will be with Catalonia and the other territories of our country that are in need of it. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I ask the House as a whole - I insist - for time, unity and loyalty. It is what we need on the front to win this war against the virus: time, unity and loyalty; the same time, the same unity and the same loyalty that I offer you. Ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that when we get out of this, you will have plenty of time to oppose the government, a lot of time, but I am already telling you that there will be a difference with today, and that is when I will defend myself. Now I am not going to lose a minute or a gram of energy in defending myself, because I need all the time and all the forces the Spanish Government has at its disposal to fight the virus. The enemy is the virus and I hope we all understand it. [[Applauds]] Since when did the various authorities or you, Mr. Married, know that you had to collect masks or breathers and robes? Since 9 January did we learn of the first death by coronavirus in China? Since 30 January, the World Health Organization declared a global health emergency? Did you know on February 21st, the day the first death occurred in Italy? On 26 February, when the first indigenous contagion occurred in Spain, that is, of a Spanish citizen who had not travelled outside our country? Ladies and gentlemen, until 13 March, when the state of alarm was declared in our country, the capacity of the health councils of all the autonomous communities was full, do not forget. They could have had everything they needed. When did the opposition begin to hear complaints about the Ministry of Health because there was no material? From 14 March, i.e. from the moment the Government of Spain declares the state of alarm. That day many saw clearly what they had not seen before. This is the virus, ladies and gentlemen, and not the territorial model. Look, France, which - we have seen in the press - has a centralized state, absolutely vertical, has difficulties in supplying masks and breathers. The United States, which is an absolutely decentralized country, similar to what we can have, is also having difficulties in providing supplies. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the aim is to combat the virus, not to hold a theoretical seminar on constitutional law. Mr. Abascal, I'm not going to argue with you, but I want to remind you of two things that seem important to me. His group, in short, has never defended the public, never; quite the contrary. You have defended the privatization of social security, you have defended the privatization of health, that there would be no public health, and I believe that all citizens are able to imagine what we would be like today if there was no public health. [[Rumors]] And the other thing I want to remind you of is that you have never managed anything, ever. This is not a reproach, but a finding. Since the absence of public responsibility, it is much easier to fall into the magical thought of which his spokesman spoke before. They believe that by snapping your fingers you are governed, but I can assure you, Mr Abascal, that it is a little more complex. Mr Echenique, our parties are an example of what we are discussing today and every day. A few months ago we were discussing issues that we think are smaller today, but today we are together in the same government and we are acting shoulder to shoulder, loyally, looking only for the most important thing: to beat the virus together and not to leave anyone behind. This is a task for all and I warmly thank you for the support of your parliamentary group and also that of the members of the Council of Ministers who belong to the Podemos. Some spokesmen, such as BNG or Bildu's - Mr Rufian has not entered into it, but BNG and Bildu have spoken about the legal figure we are using, which, as you know, is recognized in the Constitution. This is the state of alarm, which is an exceptional state, extraordinary, out of the ordinary. It is not that it limits rights to the territories, ladies and gentlemen, it is that it limits rights to citizens, who, among other things, cannot leave their homes freely, and the rights of citizens are the most inalienable, so that we are very measured when assessing the restriction of competences. I also told him at the appearance in which I explained the state of alarm to the whole House. You know this is going to last as long as the fight against the virus lasts, not another day. This does not undermine diversity, plurality or statutory rights. It's a state of alarm, so let's not forget it for a second. I do not think that citizens are very concerned that the disinfection of Bilbao airport, the port or the airport of Barcelona is done by the army; they are concerned that it will be disinfected. This is the question, ladies and gentlemen, and hence also the protection of the state of alarm. With regard to the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party, I believe that the proposal we have put forward to turn the Parliamentary Health Commission into the Pandemic Monitoring Committee where we provide the various parliamentary groups with the information you need - not only daily information on the evolution of the pandemic, but also on the measures being taken by the Government of Spain - seems to me to be taking up the glove of the amendment proposal you put forward in your resolution. In fact, one of the proposals I have also made is for the Minister of Health to appear weekly in this parliamentary committee, while the state of alarm lasts. I remind you that the Minister of Health will be here tomorrow to explain the pandemic. There have been some speakers who talk about the confinement and that we have to be tougher and stricter with the confinement: Mr Rufián, Mr Errejón, Mr Baldoví and Mrs Aizpurua. I have always said that we have to remain very flexible and attentive, and I really appreciate a constructive willingness to approach this issue, but I can assure you that the health authorities who manage this crisis study with the utmost attention every report, suggestion or proposal that comes to us from highly qualified professionals and researchers. As you know, there are reports that have different predictions. The long-term forecasts that are set are risky in some cases; they may be true, I am not saying no, but they may also lead to major miscalculations. As I have repeated on several occasions, and this is really the substantive thing in this place where we are, the Government and its chain of command, as the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has said, are at all times obeying the instructions and protocols of the World Health Organization, which has acknowledged this, praising, of course, the action of the Government of Spain. I think I can say that we are an exemplary country in the implementation of the recommendations. I could give you figures on the evolution of mobility in our country, which is precisely how we are moving the stoppage and economic slowdown that we have right now in our country. The energy consumption of households or services is also eloquent enough to be aware of the period and the economic consequences that it is going to have and that it is already having in terms of the destruction of employment, but also of the disappearance of enterprises; it is eloquent enough to be aware that we have to be balanced and balanced in terms of the restrictions that we impose on the whole country. There is no absolute certainty in this matter, ladies and gentlemen, there is no such certainty, but there are no contradictions either. This is what I think is important as regards the definition of government action. There is a very broad consensus on the direction in which we must walk. We all agree with the basic lines of avoiding unnecessary mobility and reducing economic activity that is not essential. Well, what's essential, what's not essential? Therefore, we do not discuss contrary proposals, but the limits and scope of the same measure. As I said in my speech, we must carefully calculate the limits of the confinement and paralysis of our economic activity. I recall that when I presented the royal decree of the state of alarm here I suggested that all the actions that the Government of Spain had taken were based on three fundamental criteria emanating from the guidelines of the World Health Organization. The first has to do with solitary confinement measures, the second has to do with socio-economic impact measures that have such containment measures and the third has to do with respect for human rights. And in that difficult balance between those three guides that the World Health Organization is marking, we are working from the Government of Spain. As the WHO warns, this, confinement, could in turn have serious short-term consequences, including health, and devastating effects on the indispensable reconstruction phase that we should soon face. Therefore, let us not make this a cause of faith or an ideological debate, as some speakers have raised from this rostrum. Let's not fall into that nonsense, that's all I'm asking. Let us not force citizens to take sides in a debate that is technical and scientific and in which the public authorities make decisions based on the advice of experts. That is what the Government of Spain is doing. As for the comments on the Army and the Armed Forces and some appearances that have been raised by some speakers, I say again what I said a moment ago, that it is about mobilizing another public sector, in this case one more, that has the training, that has the capacity and that it has the means to help certain groups in certain situations of this emergency that we are experiencing. Therefore, it is a matter of summarizing. The recourse to the Armed Forces is not done at the expense of anything or anyone, they are not left behind, they simply add up. They're one more instrument. Why can't we count on him? The Armed Forces do not replace doctors, nor nurses; they do not replace other state or autonomous security forces, but they reinforce and complement them, ladies and gentlemen. They are limited to helping where they can do so, to free other public servants from certain tasks, so that they can meet other different needs. Is that bad? I don't think so. The care and protection of strategic infrastructures is being carried out today by the Army because this allows for the release, for example, of the National Police, other State Security Forces and Bodies, to do another type of service or work that is undoubtedly important at this time. Is it bad that they empower field hospitals where they may be needed and that they explain it in the media and in the press? I don't think so. And take care of giving shelter and protection to homeless people? I don't think so, ladies and gentlemen. And that they explain it in the media so that it is also known with absolute transparency information what they are doing? Finally, we all have our subsidiaries and our phobias more or less rational, but the least that can be expected of us, ladies and gentlemen, in a crisis like the present is that we keep them out of the way and do not interfere. I really thank the spokesman for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group for his attitude of collaboration. I think that's the way; now there are no administrations of any color, there are many public administrations that fight from all territories and from all colors for the common good, for victory over the virus. You are also indispensable in this struggle, and I would like to ask you from here - as I ask Mr. Casado - that as a representative of Citizens, we do not deliver it to the leaders of your party that this war is going on Twitter and that the enemy is not the Government of Spain; we deliver it in hospitals, in the empty streets, in the homes of the elderly and in the supply markets. That's where he's always going to find the Government of Spain. There have been other speakers, such as Mr Errejón and Mr Baldoví, who have spoken about the confinement. I believe that I have responded at least to the approach of the Government of Spain, as well as to the commitment of the Government of Spain that has been raised in previous debates for the validation of different royal decree-laws on their economic and social commitment. Mr Baldoví raised a question concerning repatriations. I would like to say that the data given today by the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that on these dates we have already been repatriated around eleven thousand Spaniards and Spaniards who were outside our country. This week at least 5,000 more repatriations are planned, and we have also accompanied - and I believe this is important because it shows what our country represents - the departure of two hundred thousand foreign tourists who were in our territory. And to the minority parties that are part of the Plural Group, of the Joint Group, I want to say that we have them here and I want to thank them. I want to tell you that they have a fundamental role, because in this battle against the virus there are no hands left; even the smaller hands have five fingers and are therefore welcome this afternoon. I really appreciate your unity of action and invite you to continue to take advantage of all existing institutional channels to send any proposal to the Government. I also warmly thank the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group as a whole for the support they are giving us, because it is very encouraging and full of energy for the dates ahead. In addition to the Congress of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows that we have at our disposal the various autonomous governments and that we are coordinating with them in the various conferences of presidents and also in the interterritorial councils coordinated by the various ministries. I conclude, President, ladies and gentlemen, by saying, as at the beginning of the speech, that the evidence shows us that life can be understood and lived, and this is important to underline at a time like the present. Understanding takes time and requires reflection, and there are millions of Spaniards in our country who reflect, understand and want to live their lives without waiting another day. Millions of people from their homes are looking at us, judging us and wanting us to act together so that they and they don't have to see life passing through their windows. They want to look forward. This situation, ladies and gentlemen, also places a thermometer on our country's political health, and citizens know it. Let us go beyond the evidence, hold back the present with resistance and take advantage of this emergency situation to re-activate politics, as we have often said in this House, with capital letters. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Representatives of parliamentary groups may then speak if they deem it appropriate. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, a little self-criticism and a little humility, please, even if it is out of respect for the millions of Spaniards who are in their homes and who have you in charge of the government. I think the least is to regret what is going on and to stop blaming the technicians and scientists, whom we all thank for their work, whom we all ask for judgement in our political work, but whom we never set aside for our decisions, and less when we are at the head of the BOE. It is as if Mr Zapatero were to blame for not anticipating the economic crisis to his economic technicians. In this case, you are now advised by scientists and the case is that the decisions you have made have been late or are being insufficient. But in addition to some humility and self-criticism, I would ask you for some responsibility. Do you think that so well you have done everything to have the second country in the world in number of deaths? And a little gratitude, because the royal decrees, who passed them today? Is it approved by your investiture partner or approved by the opposition and the People's Parliamentary Group? I'm not saying thank you. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sanchez, I'm looking after you, I'm being loyal, I'm not blaming you for not knowing more than the press of many things. I received the call, as head of the opposition, after you announced it the day before to the autonomic presidents, or, vice versa, they learned later through the media. Today they have come on a cover that the autonomous communities have had to buy 52 million masks because they didn't have what you say. The Community of Madrid received 53 000 masks between yesterday and before yesterday. Do I have to remember how many infected people are already interned in the Community of Madrid? Therefore, also a little gratitude, not to me, but to all the parliamentary groups that we are giving you loyalty, certainly more loyalty than you gave us being in the opposition with much smaller health crises, security, environmental. But above all, the demand for unity cannot silence the opposition, it cannot silence the millions of voters who have given us their support to control the government in a fair, moderate, constructive and positive way, but we think it is having some points of improvement, to say the least. And to ask for time, the time will be for you, Mr Sánchez, because now you are asking for time and for fifteen days without taking these measures, and for the actual decrees you have had, even, hours of Council of Ministers. Today it was late until the publication of the BOE with what they approved yesterday. The purchase of material has been made twelve days after it was announced, the great purchase of material. Therefore, unity, loyalty and time, but also for you. Unity in the Government. It does not ask for unity from the opposition when they are fractured in the Government, and it has been commented upon in all public opinion. And loyalty, do so also with your government partners. I've seen official videos of Podemos' account talking about the Prestige, a catastrophe I remember, he didn't get hurt or killed. We're not doing that, but at least that loyalty is for you. Mrs. Lastra, loyalty to the autonomous communities. I wasn't planning on coming in, but I think it's good that we leave it with light and tachographs so that then I can get all the controls I want. From 2011 to 2018, public health spending rose from 71,667 million to 75,435 million, according to the OECD; that is, 3788 million more in seven years. However, from 2009 to 2011, the Government of Zapatero cut public health spending from 73,081 million to 71,667 million, more than 1.5 million cuts, according to the OECD. And in terms of debt growth, 16 billion euros more, 173% more health debt that we had to pay with the Supplier Plan. On the other hand, in the Community of Madrid - because the insinuations made by the President of the Government are very serious, a community that is plagued by the coronavirus, and we will see it, we will see it in the Committee of Inquiry, why the technicians say it - what we are seeing is that there has been a 14.4% increase in the health budget since 2010; or that, for example, there is an 8.5% increase in the health expenditure per inhabitant; or that the health staff of Madrid has increased by 2.7%, exactly from 72,201 professionals, in 2010, to 73,634, in 2019, specific data from the Public Service and Health Council. So when there are seven of Spain's top ten hospitals in a community, I'm simply answering them; don't lie, it's not a matter of cuts; there's been a big investment and that's why we can get out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u157	Mr. Married, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u158	Never has a government with more powers been able to do less. I'm just telling you, if you've known all this since January 13th, what have you done these two months? Why have they met twice in that follow-up committee? Why did the Ministry of Health leave in three ministries? Why are you now quoting the opposition in Lisbon or the opposition in Paris to talk about loyalty, when in eight public speeches I have reached out to you, sometimes, not even having your eyes answered, let alone your thanks? The only thing I am saying to you, Mr Sánchez, is that we have to do things better in the government and you are in the government and therefore the responsibility is yours. Loyalty is not patent course; unity is not free bar and sense of state is not a blank cheque; it is responsibility that we are having, which you did not have. And I believe that, if this crisis is already clear that it has overcome the Government, what we will have to do is to give transparency, accountability, trust and certainty to Spanish society, so that it is the one that overcomes the crisis. Do not spend time looking for culprits on the opposition bench, which is being so loyal and so responsible; look for time to find masks, protective equipment, respirators. We don't take advantage of the misfortunes to meddle. We're not like you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u159	Thank you, Mr. Casado. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you, Catalina. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u160	Thank you very much, Madam President. Time, unity and loyalty, and not taking advantage of the tragedy, is what the President of the Government asks of us and is what the spokesmen of the governmental parties ask of us. But do they really ask us? Is it us who are asking for unity and loyalty or their vice president, who has broken the unity, who has broken loyalty with the head of state and who has taken advantage of the tragedy to get into control of the National Intelligence Centre? He said you weren't going to defend yourself. You have the right to defend yourself and it seems to me very good that you defend yourself when you are being criticized. May he do so in the future when we continue to oppose and do so now when we oppose him and, moreover, show him our loyalty by voting in favour of the state of alarm and by giving him vast powers. You have the right to defend yourself, and you even have the right to tell lies, as you have said in this rostrum. He said that we are for the privatization of social security. No, here for the privatization of Social Security you are, who gave a piece of cake to your investiture accomplices, to the lords of the Basque Nationalist Party. [[Applauds]] That we are against public health, has also been able to invent that. We are not against public health, we are in favour of public health and we are also in favour of anyone who wants to have access to private health, as the members of his Government do, of course, and we have just seen during these days. They have every right to do so. By the way, what do you do when you have to test government members? Either you have access to public health and, therefore, you hang out on waiting lists of Spaniards who actually had symptoms, or you go to private health. How can they act in such a hypocritical way with us? How can things be invented? How can they embrace public health and then go to private health? Anyway, I'm more perplexed every day when I listen to you. I didn't want to defend myself today either, but you forced me to come up to the rostrum. He comes here to say that we have no management experience. Well, it can be true. And what management experience did you have before you became president of the government, Caja Madrid? [[Rumors]] Santiago Ramón and Cajal said that the worst thing is not to make a mistake, but to try to justify it. And I believe that yours, your management, has no justification, because your management in the face of this pandemic has made Spain the country of the world - although you try to contextualize it - with more rapid contagion, more infected health care workers and more dead by number of inhabitants, despite which we have voted in favour of the state of alarm to give you vast powers. And if I dare to describe it as irresponsible management or negligent management, I dare to describe it as a true betrayal because I have taken advantage of a moment when there are people dying in solitude, where there are elderly people in residences living together with corpses, to demand and blackmail you to achieve your presence at the National Intelligence Centre, which is what has brought us to the vote today, and to attack the king by pushing a part of the Spaniards who voted for them to make a cascerolada at the time when we all had to be united. So don't ask for unity from us and don't ask for loyalty if you think loyalty is quiet, because we're not going to do that. Mr Sánchez, give me a piece of advice or almost a plea: Do not allow another minute of television until it is to announce that all health professionals, all police officers, all public servants have masks and means of protection, that all serious patients have breathers and that all Spanish citizens have access to screening tests. That day, we'll all applaud him. Meanwhile, we have given him fifteen days to fight the health threat, as we have told him, the economic threat and also the totalitarian threat posed by his partners. And if you don't, we won't be able to give you our support again. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u161	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Mr Echenique Robba has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u162	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am speaking very briefly because it is already Thursday. Three notes - I apologize if they are too personal - about Spanish public health. Spinal muscle atrophy is a rare disease, causing children under two years of age to die in their most serious cases. Research to cure this disease is basically public, except in the phases where it has already been shown that a drug can be profitable; obviously, health care is also mostly public, as in all rare diseases. Second point. My wife was not born in Spain; she was on a student visa for a while until we got married and, when she was ill - with a student visa - she attended to her in public health in an exemplary way, not only with professionalism, but also with affection. I think that was the moment when I felt most proud of being Spanish. In 2012, the People's Party, with racist arguments very similar to those it now uses VOX, removed universal health in Spain even people who were legally residing in Spain, like my wife, who was legally residing in Spain with a student visa to do a doctorate at the university. That action of the People's Party was one of the reasons that prompted me to enter politics and temporarily park physics, my privacy and my anonymity. Third point - I say I apologize if it's a little personal -. Recently - yesterday, I think - I saw that video that circulates through the networks of the first extubated coronavirus at the Hospital de La Paz in Madrid. I saw him alone at home and I cried for so many reasons that I think everyone can understand; and, after seeing him and crying for a while, I said to myself, "I'm not going to do anything these days that won't help stop this epidemic that we're living. I think we live a few days in which, after listening to some political spokesmen, we have to consider whether when they see these interventions again in five or ten years' time, people will think that they were good for something or that they were not good for anything. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u163	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. [[A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum used by Mr. Echenique Robba]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u164	Thank you very much, President. It's the one and a half last morning. I, especially out of respect for the workers in this House, am not going to extend this debate. Besides, listening to PP and VOX talking about public health is like listening to Jack the Ripper talking about anatomy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u166	Madam President, I too will speak from the seat to be brief because we will agree that these are not the best time to deliberate. Mr President, you know that you have our vote in favour of this extension - I would be missing more - and I only ask you, after finding that we actually have five fingers in each hand, to take our vote as a pressure. We are going to vote in favour of this extension. We want to row in favour and we want to row with the Government, and we just want to see that in our opinion we are going, as a country, not as a government - I do not say this with any intention of attacking the Government - behind the virus. It's true that there are many people who can tell us that they already knew it and that they had a secret plan, but we didn't hear them say it, so I'm not telling you with any intention of warring the government, but of winning the battle against the virus, which I think we're going from behind, but going behind does not mean a danger because we discuss some games with others. I think the fundamental danger is that when you go behind you there are people who pay you and there are some sectors that pay you more than others, there are some sectors that pay you harder than others and that pay you with their lives. That is why we told him that, in the first place, we believe that we must go to a more blunt and shorter paralysis. It is true that when we say that all essential services must be stopped and decided by the Government, we could go into the casuistics of which are and which are not, but I do not think it is technical. There is no more political decision than deciding who is at risk of living and who is not; it is concentrated politics. I am sorry and I know that it will be unpopular and I do not believe in this sort of self-help manual thing and that at the moment we have to leave ideas and leave politics; it is on the contrary, it is right now when we have to decide on one course or another, and we propose one: we have to paralyse the country completely and all activities that are not essential and here we are saying that the government will decide it. I give you two examples: the Burger King and the works. Are the technical criteria that determine that they are open? Well, I guess there's a lot of interest going on here. I ask the Government of Spain, which is a progressive government, to go at least as far as the so-called non-progressive governments of France and Italy are going. Secondly, what we say about health: we must put all resources at the service of public health, we must convert the whole industry to the sole objective of serving the national confrontation against the virus and with what has to do with the national reconstruction programme, we must ensure that confinement is not afraid, we must ensure that confinement is not poverty, that it is not excluded, firstly, so that those who stay at home stay more calm and stay calm and, secondly, because reconstruction is not going to start on the day we leave our homes, it starts now, it starts by determining how many jobs are lost or how many businesses are lost and it starts now preventing us from finding a desolate landscape when we leave. I do think it is time for politics, so I propose a course that first has to go to the people, that first has to stop Spain and take care of the confinement and that for no one the confinement is poverty, is fear or is social exclusion. I know that there are other interests at stake - politics is always about deciding interests - and at the moment I think you would have immense support in Spanish society if you put the interests of health and tranquility of all Spaniards ahead of the possibility of making profit from, say, private groups of privileged interests. It is true that they are not antagonistic positions, it is true that they are not antagonistic discrepancies, but in this case I fear that time and the difference in taking some measures now or taking them in two weeks may have much to do with pain and suffering, especially for working families, who are carrying this with the most difficulty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u167	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u168	I also intervene from the seat, given the time, to save time. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to be consistent today, as I have said before and I insist now, and we will vote in favour of the state of alarm decree. We were the first to ask for it, and we believe that measures of social isolation must be deepened by strengthening controls and institutional collaboration. I should like once again to emphasize the importance of unity, the importance it will have for our democratic history, that today, from the opposition, there are responsible parties that support this Government at a critical and decisive moment for our country. You know, President, this government knows that from Citizens we will act with maximum loyalty and responsibility, but also with total transparency and with the firm conviction that this state of alarm, this sacrifice of millions of Spaniards really serves to defeat the virus. Ladies and gentlemen, I insist that we be judged today on how we act and we will have to learn from all of this. I am proud to be part of a project for the Spaniards, who are reaching out to present proposals to improve the lives of all without thinking about ideological clichés or party interests. From this crisis, ladies and gentlemen, we will come out more united, I have no doubt, but also with a clear idea of who has come to this House today to support the Government of your nation and who has come with identity and ideological demands. In Citizens we will always be with the interests of our country, trying to give back to the Spaniards everything they are giving us in this crisis: unity, solidarity and responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u170	Thank you, Madam President. I'll step in from the seat as well and in a minute. The truth is that I did not intend to intervene, but after the intervention of Mr Casado and Mr Abascal I see myself in the obligation, more than anything to deny - in case they were lies - any of the statements although I think it is pure and hard ignorance, because I am sure that Mr Abascal does not know that Mr Rubén Manso, who is the economic coordinator of VOX, proposes to redefine the welfare state without public education or health. I'm sure you also don't know that your Health Spokesman here in Congress, Mr. Garriga, says that universal and free health is a scourge. I am convinced that you did not know him and that you will talk to them to change their position, because that will not be the position of your group. As far as Mr Married is concerned, I just want to say that when data is handled, it is also necessary to do so rigorously. The Community of Madrid is the richest community in this country, but the richest community in this country is the second least spent on health per capita in this country as well. We can also talk in the future, because I don't want to do it today, about the lost beds, we can talk about the fired professionals, we can talk about that today the unions are denouncing that Tower 4 of the Infanta Sofia Hospital doesn't open, we can talk about all that, but today it's not the day, and it's not what I said before, because society and the future are not built against anyone or anyone, but all together, and right now all the political leaders of this country have a crisis to face and we will have to do it all together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u172	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have again held an exceptional session in this House in response, logically, to the exceptional situation in our country. I wish that none of this was necessary, and yet, in the strangeness that all of this has produced for us these days, there is a fact that I would like to underline in order to conclude, and it is a fact that seems to me indisputable, because, despite certain opinions and attitudes expressed here, this extension of the decree of the state of alarm must be the manifestation of the unity and loyalty of Congress for its Government and the Government for its Congress and for all the Spaniards. Although some feel uncomfortable in this framework of unity - it is obvious - and even yearn for the old confrontation, it is clear that we are only going to defeat the virus, united not since the imposition - I think that we have also been clear, we are going to provide all the necessary information and we are doing so in addition with all the parliamentary groups, not only me, but the Minister of Health himself over these long months that we have been managing the coronavirus from different areas; therefore, not from the imposition - but from the conviction that provides the knowledge of reality, the calm debate and above all the love for our country, for our citizenship and for its health and well-being. That is a passion shared by each of the members of this House, I have no doubt, and for once, ladies and gentlemen, we all pursue the same, exactly the same, here we are not rivals or adversaries, but public representatives united in front of an invisible enemy that we must overcome, which we are obliged to overcome. There are debates, in any case, that do not help. There are others that help us, that enrich us, that open up new perspectives and that make us contemplate other possibilities, and there are other debates that burden us, that confuse us, that delay us, that are the debates that we cannot consent to, even giving the data. I will give a given, I have said it before, in my first intervention, in the replica and now in the duplicate. Now we all have to be supportive of the Madrid Community, and we are, and the Government is precisely articulating all those solidarity mechanisms that we are asking for from different territories, but we have to give the certain figures because, if not, we confuse the citizenry at a time when there is a lot of anguish and a lot of gloomy. The Community of Madrid was given more than one hundred thousand masks yesterday, and from 10 March to date the Community of Madrid has been given 26,8 % of the total number of masks distributed throughout the national territory, i.e. 1,865,468 masks. Therefore, let us contribute to constructive, reliable debates, to give certainty and clarity to the debate and also to respond to the unknowns of the whole citizenry. Therefore, the alternative, in my opinion, is simple: we can waste time and energy on reproaching each other for what no one knew in time, neither you nor Spain nor the world, or we can devote every second of our lives and every gram of our forces to getting out of this situation. And get out together. This is the dilemma to which every political leader in this country has to respond. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt, I know what the answer will be. We are allies in the same line; every public representative, regardless of the party, is useful, indispensable and necessary for this Government. I think I've also exercised it in the first person. I have spoken to all the parliamentary groups, from the broadest to the smallest, and in the same way that we have you that no one has the Government to engage in political confrontation in this situation. Nothing or anyone is going to separate us from the line of unity and loyalty in which we believe and which will lead us to total victory in front of the coronavirus. Therefore, let us not waste time thinking from intuition, let us not run after miraculous solutions that would only serve to accentuate suffering. Let us, therefore, live up to our obligations; it is time to take real leadership with courage, effort and determination. Let's keep our heads cold, our hearts warm and our spirits unbreakable. The head is cold, ladies and gentlemen, because it is very important at a time such as the present one to make decisions, not to act from fear, to correct the diagnoses and the consequences of the measures being taken and which can be taken. To listen to proposals, no doubt, even if they are from our political rivals. Also for the role of each and every one of us in the unity of action that citizens demand of us. To share from loyalty a battle and propose from intelligence and knowledge new weapons to win it. To seek, in short, ladies and gentlemen, the common good. That's what we need the cold head for. Also the warm heart to feel as own the pain of each person. And believe me, I feel like my own. To put us in his place. To be permanently with all Spanish and Spanish. To feel the pain of everyone as their own. To suffer together. To seek the common benefit above one's own. So as not to leave anyone behind, neither now nor after, when we get out of this very unfortunate situation. A firm spirit too, ladies and gentlemen, so as not to doubt. Let's not lose a second, let's have confidence in what we're doing together because we're doing it right, because we're going in the right direction. If we keep the mood firm, the heart warm and the head cold we will bend the curve and eliminate the virus. So let us not look elsewhere, let us not allow doubts to change the direction of our march at this decisive, decisive moment. Let's not give in to fear, to scum. Let's not let small thoughts alter our decision. We come, ladies and gentlemen - I have said this over this weekend - from dark, uncertain days and we are going to spend more dark and uncertain days, but we know where the exit is. We're going to get through this. We just have to step up, moving forward together this week that we said it was going to be very difficult and continue to trust this common response that we are renewing today to recover the most beautiful of our lives. To leave behind - just now, ladies and gentlemen, that spring has begun - this unexpected winter time. To leave it behind united, ladies and gentlemen, always united. Thank you for your support. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to thank all the workers of the Congress of Deputies who have made it possible to hold this plenary session, and more so at this hour of the morning. [[Applauds]] We proceed to the vote on the events in relation to the states of alarm, exception and site. Request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by COVID-19. Firstly, the proposals put forward by the parliamentary groups to the request for an extension of the state of alarm are voted on. Vote on the proposal submitted by the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 43 plus 306 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 5 plus 26 telematics votes, 31; against, 38 plus 280 telematics votes, 318.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u174	The proposal is therefore rejected. Voting on proposal 2, submitted by the Basque Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 43 plus 306 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 25 plus 167 telematics votes, 192; against, 15 plus 134 telematics votes, 149; abstentions, 3 plus 5 telematics votes, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u175	The proposal was therefore adopted. Vote on the proposals submitted by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 43 plus 306 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 18 plus 136 telematics votes, 154; against, 24 plus 165 telematics votes, 189; abstentions, 1 plus 5 telematics votes, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u176	The proposals are therefore rejected. Proposals from the Plural Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. Voting on the proposals submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. [[Mrs. Borràs]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 43 plus 306 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 4 plus 25 telematics votes, 29; against, 37 plus 279 telematics votes, 316; abstentions, 2 plus 2 telematics votes, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u177	The proposals are therefore rejected. Voting on the proposals submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. [[Mr. Rego]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 43 plus 306 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 4 plus 25 telematics votes, 29; against, 36 plus 279 telematics votes, 315; abstentions, 3 plus 2 telematics votes, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u178	The proposals are therefore rejected. Voting on the proposals submitted by the Republican Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 43 plus 306 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 5 plus 26 telematics votes, 31; against, 37 plus 280 telematics votes, 317; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u179	The proposals are therefore rejected. Voting on the proposals submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 43 plus 306 telematics votes, 349; votes in favour, 7 plus 45 telematics votes, 52; against, 25 plus 181 telematics votes, 206; abstentions, 11 plus 80 telematics votes, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u180	The proposals are therefore rejected. Finally, we are voting for the request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, in the terms resulting from the votes produced in relation to the proposals that have been submitted. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 43 plus 306 telematics votes, 349; 40 plus 281 telematics votes, 321; abstentions, 3 plus 25 telematics votes, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-03-25-CD200325.u181	The extension of the state of alarm, which will be published in the State Official Gazette, is authorized. Good night. The meeting rose. It was the one and fifty-five minutes of the morning.
