ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We begin with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 27/2020 of 4 August of extraordinary and urgent financial measures applicable to local entities. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government. I ask you, please, to take your seats.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and to all. First of all, I would like to say to you that it is a pleasure to return to this House after this brief recess of August and to resume parliamentary activity at a very important time, at a key time for Spanish society, as I am sure that many of your ladies and gentlemen live and share. First of all, I would like to convey, on behalf of the Government, a message of solidarity and support to all those who are suffering from the disease of COVID-19 these days. I think I echo the feeling of the House in expressing our condolences to all those who have lost a loved one. We are aware that the coronavirus pandemic continues to occupy a broad and extensive place in our lives, generating enormous concern among citizens, both for the health consequences and for the economic and social impact that derives from it. Indeed, in these months, since the international emergency was declared, much progress has been made in the scientific community in the fight against this virus. Firstly - and I think that can be seen - in the responsibility of the health authorities. We have clearly improved the strategic capacities of our health system, strengthened, enhanced diagnostic and preventive resources and means, and progressed towards better coordination and co-governance between ministries and autonomous communities. Intensive work has also been done in the homes of older people and in everything relative, as you have seen in recent days, to prepare for the start of the school year, so that boys and girls can enjoy safe school environments. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, a wide range of measures has been made available to citizens to prevent economic collapse, with the consequences that this entails for unemployment or the closure of some companies; in fact - you know it, because you approved it in this Congress of Deputies - a wide range of measures have been extended in the areas of labour, business, social services, income redistribution and targeted at vulnerable groups. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the action of this Government has been to try to ensure that no one is left behind and that we are prepared for our health centres, until we have the definitive vaccine, to be able to cope with this health situation in quality conditions, as they do in most of the year. Ladies and gentlemen, I also want to claim from this rostrum a line of work that is very important, and I am referring to the lines of support for all public administrations, for autonomous communities and for local authorities - we are discussing them today - that is to say for all administrations, to send resources where there is a need and so that no one, anywhere, can find it difficult to be served by a public administration. I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that never before had the General Administration of the State deployed such a battery of resources to the territorial authorities; never before had so many measures of support for the liquidity of the autonomous communities been arbitrated and no action been made to compensate for the fall in revenues of these administrations. In fact, unlike what happened in the previous crisis, with the People's Party Government, this Government has not tried to take advantage of the crisis to cut down or re-centralize powers, otherwise it is, side by side, working with the administrations to fight the pandemic and the economic consequences. In fact, we have deepened during all these months within the framework of the jurisdictional distribution provided by the Constitution and have therefore been fully respectful of the autonomy of the territorial administrations. So much so, ladies and gentlemen, that since the beginning of the legislature we have shifted the commitment to move forward in the reform of the financing systems, both autonomous and local, and - I would say more - to accompany it also with a change in the Law of bases of local regime, allowing the municipalities to regain the competences they lost during the governments of the People's Party and, therefore, to develop again their maximum capacity in the place where the neighbours find greater accessibility, which is in their cities and municipalities. I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the outbreak of the pandemic has not upset this road map, on the contrary. This government - and I believe that society as a whole - is aware that it has been quite evident during this pandemic - and we have learned this - that it is important to preserve quality, universal, accessible public services for all citizens and that, in the end, they are the safety mattress that allows us all, at least in these basic issues, to have more or less homogeneous capacities, regardless of the place or family where we live. Ladies and gentlemen, local authorities - as I said, the administration closest to the people, which knows perfectly well the characteristics and singularities of each of the neighbours, their needs and their strength - are called to take on a leading role at this stage of reconstruction and reactivation. This is how we are transferred to numerous municipalities in the meetings we have held with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, and so this Executive also believes. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a government that listens carefully, it is a government that believes in dialogue and consensus, which thinks that they are indispensable formulas for working in favour of Spanish society. I would say more to you, ladies and gentlemen, this Government believes that we need to establish dialogue and alliances beyond the Congress of Deputies - this is an issue that I also think it is important to mention - insofar as there is a dialogue with society that is organized to talk about specific problems or global problems. When we meet with the third sector, with social dialogue, with associations of entrepreneurs or with any other association of collectives or persons involved in a problem or when we meet with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, we are doing a democratic exercise, recognizing that the municipalities have a representation and a voice that allows them to defend their interests and that this Government has to dialogue with all of them and try to reach agreements with all of them, not only within the framework of the political groups present in this Congress, but also with the society that is not represented here by its lords, but is represented by other collectives. That is why this Government has wanted and wants to recognize the role of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces in representing the interests of municipalism. It is a federation that has been working tirelessly, tirelessly, to reach an agreement with this Government. It is an organization that represents the democracy of our municipalities in Spain and therefore any conclusion or agreement that, by a majority, comes out of it must count on the respect of this House. [[Applauds]] I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because this Government is going to continue to weave support and to continue to weave agreements relating to groups that may have difficulties or to administrations that at this time need extraordinary reinforcement in order to be able to cope with their competences, to reach the population or to seek social solutions to families that have really been affected by the coronavirus. We are going to continue to carry out this task of dialogue, although I regret that this House does not endorse it later and therefore question even the majority of those who have legitimate dialogue in order to be able to reach agreements with the Government on the interests they represent. Ladies and gentlemen, all political positions are legitimate, can be logical and every formation aspires to defend them in this House, but it is also an absolute truth that people want answers and that they need the answers to be clear, urgent, because this situation we are living in is unprecedented, extraordinary and therefore requires the help of all. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, it's here and it's now. When this debate passes, when this vote passes, we cannot see again what we have seen in previous months, when the Government tries to solve a problem that ten years ago nobody dares to tackle; because no Government has dared to seek solutions, however complex solutions to complex problems. Once that happens and your ladies and gentlemen, each in its capacity and each in its competence, adopt their own definition of how they have to vote or how they have to behave, it cannot happen - and what I insist, sometimes we see - is that there is a lot of criticism or a demand for answers to the Administration, to the Government that has come here with a proposal and that has found no one else who respects the constitutional limits on the part of any political group. However, by the expression that many of your lordships or many of your spokesmen have moved, there is a good chance that the decree-law will not be validated. I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because, of course, our obligation is to find meeting points, to be able to look for what unites us, but this is not a normal legislature, this is not a normal economic context and we are not facing a normal social reality. We may like this more or less, but we live in this new normality, with unprecedented problems that require extraordinary solutions and that also require extraordinary political commitments. The objective of this royal decree-law that we are now subject to its validation is to offer local entities an urgent, extraordinary solution to their treasury needs and liquidity difficulties; a solution that allows us to make use of economic resources that are now needed - now, not in a year, not when it passes not known what period - to strengthen this network of social services, urban mobility or the care economy for those groups that most need us and who are most vulnerable. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government, with the limitations of every order that you too know - economic, legislative and urgent - is seeking, because it is its duty, a solution to each problem. He doesn't hide his head under the table like an ostrich. The solution that this Government has put on the table is the only one that we consider technically, legally, feasible given the normative limitations arising from the Stability Act and the Constitution itself. Last Monday, ladies and gentlemen, we held a debate in the Finance Committee of this Congress that allowed us to address in depth where the difficulty lies, what are the possible paths and why this Executive has chosen the path that seemed most beneficial to local entities. Of course, your ladies and gentlemen can try to improve the proposal brought by the Government, and that is why we have offered our support to process this bill as a bill, so that we can incorporate the issues that the parliamentary groups consider appropriate. Before I enter into the substance of this matter, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my full appreciation for the work and work done by the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces to reach an agreement of this kind. I want to say to your ladies and gentlemen that it has been two months of intense debate with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces - you have witnessed it, because the media have been transparent in the progress of the talks as they happened - and that I believe, in some way, we have given a satisfactory response to the historic aspirations of municipalism, including the commitment to tackle local funding reforms and some other issues of enormous interest. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I feel obliged to make a reference to the legitimacy of these institutions, because you are well aware that some groups have questioned the work carried out by the FEMP as an interlocutor representing the municipalities. In addition, I would like to tell you that it has been intended to establish platforms parallel to the FEMP itself. I believe that we all share the view that it is essential to respect the democracy of our municipalities and, therefore, the representation that the EMFF has today in its plenary session and in its executive structure. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in all our institutions - in this Congress, in the municipalities, in the autonomous communities - when the mandate of the President of the Government is elected or revoked, of the municipal plenary, in short, of any institutional environment, the democratic game is respected. No one asks another institution how and how the majority has obtained an agreement, however, ladies and gentlemen, in this case it has come to question the legitimacy of the EMPF's dialogue and of the agreement reached by it to endorse with the Government this royal decree-law that we bring to validation today. The majority of the FEMP, its political representation, is not the fruit of whim, it is not the fruit of chance, it is the fruit of democracy. Neighbors and neighbours elect their mayors and, in turn, they elect the representation of the FEMP. Denying the democracy of the majorities of the FEMP is denying the democracy of the municipalities, it is denying the democracy of the citizens as a whole. [[Applauds]] That is why we can never question the legitimacy that arises from that sovereignty of the Spanish and Spanish when it comes to choosing their representatives or when it comes to choosing their institutions. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that when we talk about the resources of municipalities or local entities, the wind blows loud; but strong are also the needs of these administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, as I say to you, we cannot disguise the majority minority, that is not a good path. I therefore ask that we reflect on many of the comments that are being circulated in the media, because the depth of what they carry sometimes makes us have to be warned and alert so that no one questions the very legitimacy of democratic institutions. Therefore, from here I express my appreciation to the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, my appreciation also for the work done. I would like to convey to you that this royal decree-law has been widely discussed, widely agreed with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and has therefore been part of an agreement that the President of the Government himself and the President of the FEMP signed to make it possible for us to have this discussion today. I am going, ladies and gentlemen, in this part of my speech, once the context on which this decree-law is based is drawn, to transfer to them the elements that, in my opinion, make up the interesting, important part of this decree-law so that the municipalities have greater resources and better tools. Let's go to these facts. The first of the facts contemplated by this decree-law is the improvement of the resources of each and every local entity, of which they have healthy accounts, ladies and gentlemen, and of which they do not have them - large cities benefit and small municipalities also benefit -, and it does so by being fully respectful with these local entities, with which they have remnants of treasury and which, with the current legal limitations, cannot make use of them, but also with those which do not have these resources, but which can benefit from this royal decree-law and can benefit from different financial assistance measures. That is what the text clearly says in its presentation. There are some measures that have the consensus of most of the groups in this House and that in some way respond to logical demands during this pandemic. The rule of spending, the use of surplus, the possibility of extending financially sustainable investments or the fact of being able to update deliveries on behalf of local administrations themselves are elements that all political groups - at least from what I have heard - shared and we were pleased to express in the Finance Committee last Monday as a result of the discussion of this decree-law. There are other issues that, as you know, are not shared by the rest of the groups, although it is a voluntary mechanism, to which local entities, when they are interested, can subscribe. The decree-law is respectful of those entities that are not interested, and do not have to subscribe to it; I mean the remnants and the fund for all the municipalities. Therefore, this is an absolutely voluntary mechanism and it makes no sense, ladies and gentlemen, that here, in the Congress of Deputies, we take the decision by the mayors. Let the municipalities themselves discuss whether or not they are interested in benefiting from all the measures set out in the decree-law, and with respect to those that do not benefit them, I trust the mayors fully to make the decision within their competence and decide whether or not to incorporate those remnants or decide to make use of the second part of this decree-law or not. The second fact, ladies and gentlemen, is that this decree is absolutely inclusive with all the proposals that came out of the Commission for Reconstruction that was set up in this Congress of Deputies and that were aimed at improving the situation of the municipalities. Each and every one of the issues suggested by your lordships are incorporated into this decree-law. It therefore fulfils the mandate of this Congress and goes further, incorporating additional elements for the use of the remnants of treasury, which, as you know, is a problem that comes from far away. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, article 135.2 of the Constitution prevents local entities from running into deficits. The Organic Law on Financial Stability is also concrete and details the impossibility of running into deficit; a law, by the way, passed by the majority of the People's Party, although these days many of its members do not - it seems - share the Law on Stability or simply deny it or even declare that it is not going to be respected or that it is not going to be respected by this law or the Constitution itself. On the other hand, there is one element that has cost a lot of work to open up in the public debate, because it is a complex issue, which requires information that will probably make it possible to know the scope of these measures. For those who are not familiar with this debate, I will tell you that, by accounting regulations, every time budgetary credit is generated, that is, every time the remaining treasury of the municipalities is executed, it automatically incurs a deficit. This is something that many of your ladies and gentlemen and many of the parliamentary groups have been familiar with these days and it is what really makes this problem complex, since the Constitution itself is the one that limits the municipalities to go into deficit. For this reason, this royal decree-law gives a viable solution, opens a way for those remnants of treasury to be used; articulates measures that allow this to be done, as well as incorporating a number of issues in relation to the spending rule or the financially sustainable investments that allow them to have greater resources and, in addition, creates a transport fund, endowed with 400 million euros, which will be distributed to all municipalities that have had a fall in income, due to the lack of travellers in municipal transport, which has caused a breakdown in the public coffers on this issue. Another important fact, ladies and gentlemen, to take into account is that the municipalities today pay €70 million for having the money in the bank, i.e. the treasury remnants are not only not yielding positively to the municipalities, but the negative interest rate that the money has at the moment makes it necessary to pay for those deposits that are in the bank, that frozen money and that entails an added cost for these municipalities. It makes no sense that this situation is perpetuated over time. And a fourth fact that I want to make clear is that the government does not in any way need the money of the municipalities. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I do not understand the laughter of the ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, it must be that they are not paying attention to the financial markets, it must be that they are not at all interested in what Spain's ability to place its debt and what Spain's ability to borrow on the markets is at present. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u4	It seems that you do not read that at this time the debt auctions are immediately ending, that we are working with the financial markets at a negative interest rate. As much as it bothers your ladies and gentlemen, this country is solvent and this country is attractive to investors. [[Applauds]] Some lordship says not with his finger. Ladies and gentlemen, study, read and know the economic indicators, because you are out of reality if you say here, in this Congress, that the Treasury is currently not being financed in the markets or is being financed at an interest rate that is not what I have just said in that rostrum. Give it back to me in your speech. [[Applauds]] You will therefore understand that, at the negative interest rate with which this government is financing the debt, we do not need the money of the municipalities. Moreover, you will understand that, for this Executive, having to sign 9000 loans has an administrative burden added to the work we have already done. What we are trying to do is to give the solution to those remnants of treasury that I have just commented on, moreover, ladies and gentlemen - I will insist to the full - with a voluntary mechanism. Some do not understand what the voluntary word means. Often members of some political groups who criticise the measures - for example, the People's Party, as we have heard these days - seek to impose what they understand and do not give other administrations the opportunity to make their decisions according to their own analysis and conclusions and within their competences. The People's Party wants to take the decision by all the municipalities and steal from them that power capacity, voluntarily, to make those remnants available so that they can be used consecutively and therefore do not remain forever in bank deposits. It is a mechanism, ladies and gentlemen, which also allows citizens to benefit from many issues in which municipalities today have to play a key and fundamental role. It is important that we be able to resume many of the investments that the municipalities have had to leave parked during this pandemic until the economic moment is better, investments in relation to the urban agenda, with the attention to the most vulnerable people, with home care, with culture or with any of the other elements that have suffered a slump during these months of the pandemic. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, those who speak of theft, of confiscation, of robbery and use all those thick words - sometimes I wonder whether they are used for other purposes in order that they do not apply for what they really have to be used for, and I think that their lordships understand me perfectly - make them popular, and when they are talking about this innovative voluntary mechanism, the only thing they are pursuing, as always, is wear and tear, making politics useless and not having the capacity to respond to citizens' problems. [[applause]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that we cannot count on those who permanently impede the development of our task as an executive. Making the remnants available to the municipalities to exercise their powers, which have adequate and sufficient funding, is an attempt by this Executive to assist, an attempt to solve this problem, to answer questions related to the use of the corresponding funds. Ladies and gentlemen, those of us who believe that municipalities are a fundamental part of our society, those who believe that they are the first-hand people's needs, must be more involved in reconstruction right now. It is a conviction, ladies and gentlemen, of this Executive, as demonstrated by the fact that during the last decree-laws some relaxations of the financial restrictions of the municipalities have been incorporated, which, as you know, have been made so that they can invest in social spending, so that they can make investments that do not comput in the rule of spending or so that they can allocate part of their remnant to collaborate in the implementation of the minimum living income, which, as you know, was reflected in the decree-law itself that regulated this benefit. Those of us who are municipalists, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to work to find solutions, to try to support the mayors of this country, to whom I want to send a message of encouragement and recognition for the work they do every day, every day, on foot with all the citizens. I insist that we continue to work to increase the margin of action that municipalities have. Once the decree-law has taken shape - last Monday we discussed it in the Congressional Finance Committee - the Socialist Parliamentary Group has spoken - I would say that until the exhaustion - with all the political groups present in the House and also the Ministry of Finance has done so, of course, accompanying the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the United Nations Group We can, to transfer to their lordships the proposal that this decree-law be treated as a bill. It has been made available to the political groups and to the deputies who make up our bench and that of the United Nations We can in order to be able to process this decree-law as a draft law and find a formula for the substantive issue, the remnants, which is where the difficulties lie, which is more in line with the expectations and needs of its lords. The Socialist Group has proposed that the fund of 5 billion, instead of being distributed among the municipalities that make the remnants available, should be allocated up to 60% per population and 40% as a function, as determined by the decree-law, of making the remnants available. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, we are offering that the 5 billion should, for the most part, be divided simply and simply by the population criterion. This makes it possible to reach each and every one of the municipalities, those that have and those that have no leftovers, so that citizens can benefit from a very large volume of resources. I insist, EUR 3 billion distributed exclusively on the basis of the population criterion and the maintenance of 40% for the distribution of the remnant. It is a proposal that we have maintained until last night so that the part that we have all agreed can enter into force with the validation of the decree-law. But, ladies and gentlemen, as you are well aware, the answer we have received has been negative, so the question is: What do the political groups think that, within the constitutional framework, within the framework of the law, should be done in order to solve the problem of the remnants? All the issues I hear do not resolve the issue of the remnants. They improve funding, but they still leave the money of local entities untapped. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have shown from the government and the Socialist Parliamentary Group that we want to establish a negotiation - and I look at the secretary and the coordinator of my group - to the point of satiety. It will not have been because we have not contacted each and every one of you to convey that the proposal to distribute that fund of 5 billion with 60% population capital and 40% of the remnants could harbour much more consensus than the demonstrations that had been expressed by the parliamentary groups. In any case, the answer we receive, at the expense of what happens later in the vote, has not been definitive, so I again call them to reflection and to insist on them and to ask them on behalf of the municipalities that we validate this decree-law and allow very important issues that I will not tire of repeating. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u6	For example, ladies and gentlemen, it allows our provincial parliaments to provide financial assistance to municipalities that are at financial risk by formalizing loans or by entering into credit operations. It also allows the 2019 surplus to make current transfers on a finalist basis by the deputies, a fact that had never occurred before in our country. Similarly, there is a commitment to study the terms and conditions of loans from the Local Entities Financing Fund. In short, it allows to pay attention to those municipalities that are bankrupt or at risk of complicated financial situation and, therefore, to enable the financing of their debts with public creditors, compensating even the debts that they currently have with Social Security or the Tax Agency, which are extraordinarily important, so that they can develop their actions normally. As I said, ladies and gentlemen, it includes a whole set of measures that are deployed in all municipalities. I would also like to say to you that, fortunately, only 3% of the municipalities are in a situation where they do not have cash leftovers or have accounts that really require financial assistance. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the regulatory text, as you rightly recall, updates the deliveries to the local authorities. This means around EUR 650 million that the municipalities would receive - i.e. an update of the IEP - so that their funding would take place as if the health pandemic had not taken place. Just as we did with the autonomous communities, we have updated the financing of the territorial entities as if GDP had grown by 1.6% and not as if it had fallen by around 10%, that is, under clearly satisfactory conditions. A working table is set up with the FEMP to lay the foundations for the future reform of local finance, which is the Gordian knot of municipal management. Therefore, we advance in a historical claim of municipalism. We put into practice the conditions of the Recovery Fund which was also approved within the European Union, so that we propose the participation of the municipalities in the management of the European funds. They have an important task to develop and the municipalities are also called upon to play a leading role in the management of European funds. In short, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of advantages that do not justify that this decree-law could not be validated today. I have studied thoroughly during these days the objections of all the parliamentary groups and have not heard any kind of alternative measure which respects the constitutional limit on the part of your ladies and gentlemen. All the measures are beneficial to the municipalities and in the process we have offered of the bill we can adjust and articulate some that your ladies and gentlemen consider not to be exactly what the local entities need at the moment. I am fully aware that it is difficult, it is complex to give a tour of the solution of the remnants who are in immobilised also by constitutional mandate. It is a really complicated issue and I understand that your ladies and gentlemen have raised some sort of doubt. But if we do not validate this decree-law, ladies and gentlemen, what is the alternative you propose? What is the solution that we can propose to local entities? We have heard the positions of the various groups, we have had dialogue, we have put on the table this new proposal which I have just commented on and which your ladies and gentlemen know because yesterday we had the opportunity to discuss it. If neither can that proposal be opened up, ladies and gentlemen, then we will not really have the capacity to give a response, a solution to the claim of our local entities. That is why I am moving them back not to political tacticalism, not to think that there will be a second chance. We are in the middle of a pandemic, this House and its representatives have to take care of the mood of the Spanish and Spanish. We must be able to give a sincere and honest answer to the problems that exist today. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, probably any one of us could design - if we did not have the legal limits - a simpler or better solution, but I think it is fair to acknowledge that, given the legal tightening, we are looking for solutions to problems that have not had during this decade - since there is a remnant of the municipalities - no opportunity to take advantage of it. The Government has done its job. He has put a proposal on the table and we would like, ladies and gentlemen, to see that its discussion on the part of funds and on the part of the remnant can have a greater consensus on the part of all groups. I conclude by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot use the municipalities as a ram in the permanent dialectic of confrontation, of confrontation which is part of the opposition with this Government. I'd say, with the city halls, please, no. Let local entities work and carry out their tasks, and let us not use them as in other debates that we sometimes have where the only objective is wear, confrontation and confrontation, without any other consideration. In this House we have had examples of how, when trying to solve a problem affecting the Autonomous Communities and not being done, then the problem has no solution. This question, ladies and gentlemen, is important for you to think about because we then regret it, once the proposals that improve the situation of the territorial administrations - I insist, the example we have in VAT - are rejected, then the opposition groups are going to look for blame or try to get the Spanish Government to look for alternatives, when it has already put them on the table. That is why I insist that you think well of the meaning of your vote because the non-validation of the decree-law represents a serious setback for the municipalities, which would have the fiscal rules in full force and that they could not, I insist, use additional resources to defend the interests of their citizens. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I trust the thinking capacity of all political groups. I also tell you that this decree-law contains added measures that are no longer related to the powers of the Department of Finance and whose vote is also implicit in this validation. Among them, the extension, until 31 October, of the rate of 0 % of VAT on deliveries of sanitary equipment to combat COVID-19, i.e. that public centres do not have an added cost by VAT on masks or by VAT on sanitary products which were subject to that rate of VAT. What is done is to extend this measure, but it will fall if the decree-law is not validated. The extension of the occupational contingency resulting from accidents at work would also fall until the authorities decree the lifting of preventive measures. Likewise, the formalization of INSS agreements with the health councils or with Ingeza would decline to exempt it from the execution of the expenditure in the same year in which the commitment to expenditure is acquired. The tax regime of application also falls at the end of women's UEFA Champions League 2020, which is held in Bilbao in August 2020, and which is immersed in this decree-law, the amendments to the Renovation Plan, the distribution of dividends in the Fund for Support to Strategic Enterprises, the exemptions in the tax on documented legal acts and, as you will see, a series of commitments that this Government has made with the parliamentary groups for the processing of different decree-laws and that are now being fulfilled by bringing them for validation in this royal decree-law. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, these are measures that will not be able to see the light either, because, I insist, if in the end it is not dealt with as a bill, we will not have the capacity or the opportunity to do so. Therefore, I insist - I know that I am insistent, but I will continue to do so -, I repeat to you, ladies and gentlemen, do not be alien to the issues raised by the local corporations, let us respond to the demands of the municipalities. [[rumors]] There's a part of them that don't share, we know, we know. We have offered that that party that does not share most of the groups be discussed, can be seen, can be given a formality, can be given a formulation different from that brought by the Government. I insist, the last proposal made by this executive, which the Socialist Group and the United States have made, is the possibility of distributing the 5 billion with 60% for the population and 40% for those municipalities that have remnants. I think it's quite a sensible proposal, ladies and gentlemen. If you do not share it, without the Socialist Group or the United Nations Group, you can articulate as parliamentary groups those funds and those remnants. I insist, do not count on the Socialist Group and the United We can, do so as they understand that they better respond to the expectations of the citizens or to the expectations of the municipalities, but do not downgrade the decree-law simply because they do not share some of their exhibitions or because they simply try, as always, that confrontation and that frenzy. Let's not waste time. Now is the time of the municipalities, this is your opportunity, they are the protagonists. Let us facilitate the exercise of their powers and honour that commitment to municipalism that all political parties always demonstrate. This is the moment, there is no second chance, ladies and gentlemen. So now we have to speak about it and offer the dialogue, the consensus that we have had with the FEMP, with all the political groups in order to deal with it in the confidence that what we all achieve will be the best possible decree to respond to the citizens' problem. They do wait for us. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations, Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u7	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. On behalf of that group, Mr González Terol has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u8	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the tone of your words, which is quite different from what you have used to in the Commission, in the Chamber and in this House, probably because of what comes over you. How can you say in this House that you have excess liquidity? Why don't you pay the ERTE, Minister? Why can they only reach 1 % of the applicants for the minimum living income? Soon you'll even have to stop paying the payroll. How are we going to believe the word of a government that has told us here about false reports? How are we going to talk here about the word of a government that hides the number of people killed by COVID-19? How are we going to believe the will of consensus and dialogue of a government that is continually lacking in the truth, even with the descalation committee? Madam Minister, I am not going to talk about your proposal today, which you have read here in voice. I am going to talk about the royal decree that you have brought to this House, which is in force and which pretends to be the chronicle of an announced robbery, because on May 20, in this Chamber, you said things like that the money of corporations is everyone's and, most importantly, you said that everyone must contribute their resources, and not in a patrimonial sense. As, in your view, the money of the local corporations is of all people and you have reiterated that your Government does not need urgent liquidity - which it does need -, it has perpetrated this royal decree. Minister, you've been missing the truth for weeks, even years; today, again. He said that the Government did not need the money of the municipalities, but it needed it, and with extreme urgency, to cover the serious imbalance in public accounts that had generated its disastrous and negligent management of the pandemic. The public deficit in 2020 will exceed €123 billion, according to the Banco de España, and by 2021 will be around €82 billion. The European manna, Minister, to which you have entrusted all the recovery, will not arrive until well into 2021, and that year we will only receive EUR 25 billion. This would serve, if it were not for final transfers, Minister, to cover only a third of the fiscal gap of 2021. How do they intend to solve these very serious fiscal imbalances that leave the Mariana pit in a single step? They have already made progress: by raising taxes, by going to a new rescue, by going to the SURE to pay the 21 billion of the ERTE, and - and I also answer - by taking advantage of the savings of the municipalities through this royal decree. The son intends to help the father, but in this case, it is the father who takes the hedge off his children's savings. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, reducing superfluous spending is an option that the most expensive government of democracy does not even think about. And this happens after noting, Minister, that the Government of Spain has not given a single euro of new public money to local entities, nor during the worst moments of the pandemic, nor now with the rebounds. And on top of that, you are now perpetrating this royal decree. It is a decree approved with agst and affluence, which involves the confiscation, under duress, of municipal savings and which, relying on something you have spoken of today, in a fictitious voluntarity, imposes a corralite on the public savings of all the municipalities. This royal decree regulates, minister, however much you want to hide it here today, the delivery of the entire savings of the municipalities, 15 billion euros, for a period of fifteen years, to fulfill only one thing, with its political agenda. In return, you allegedly create a fund of EUR 5 billion, or not, because you repeat over and over again that it is EUR 5 billion, but it is actually one third of the amount of money that the municipalities voluntarily deliver. By the way, have the socialist mayor of Vigo, that of Toledo or other socialist municipalities already given their savings to the ministry? Because the deadline for doing so, Minister, was 15 September. I am sure those who applaud enthusiastically will have done so by now, although it will allow me to doubt the same. And, above all, these savings will be distributed only among those local entities that have previously given them their savings; otherwise, the ministry deliberately abandons those municipalities that have a complicated financial position, that do not have positive treasury remnants, rather than devoting all resources to helping, precisely, those municipalities that have had bad managers, but the citizens, that are not guilty of the desire they have had with them. You create first-class municipalities and second-class municipalities; and what is worse, you create first-class citizens and second-class citizens. Besides, this fund is a finalist. It will only be possible to use it in the measures dictated by the royal decree: climate emergency; sustainable urban mobility; gender policies; and cultural programming. Madam Minister, what problem is there in defending what you have said here today that you are defending, local autonomy? Do you really think a mayor doesn't know what his citizens really need? Do you really think a mayor needs to be shepherded and told what he has to invest his savings in? Madam Minister, I am sure it is important to build bicycle lanes, but do you believe that in this economic situation it is urgent? Do you know, Minister, that, in Spain, of the 8131 municipalities, 5000 of them have less than 1000 inhabitants? Do you know that you abandon, with this royal decree, rural Spain? Do you know that it is not a priority for a small town hall to buy electric vehicles or put solar panels at the gate of the town hall? Are you really going to tell that to a mayor of a municipality of seven inhabitants, seventy, one hundred or five hundred? Madam Minister, the priorities of the municipalities are very different: the promotion of employment; support for self-employed people and businesses; support for families at this difficult start of the school year; aid and support for extraordinary cleaning, to which state regulations are forcing the municipalities, schools, cultural centres, or security in order to be able to control access or shelters. Mayors, like Zaragoza, want their businessmen to lift the blinds every day. Mayors, like that of Alicante, want to be able to hire nurses in schools so that they can attend to the possible rebounds. Mayors, like that of Estepona, and vice president of the FEMP, want to help boost the tourism that you have helped to drop. And you know what? That this royal decree does not support any of the measures these mayors need. And then, I presume here from the Transport Fund. But how can you presume from a transport fund of 400 million euros, that the royal decree says it is 275 million euros, expandable - under your word, which is worth nothing in this House - to 400 million euros? Madam Minister, the FEMP unanimously asked for EUR 1725 million; certainly with enthusiastic support from the twelve mayors of the Socialist Party who are on that board of government. This is unacceptable blackmail, Minister. You have said that today there is no second chance; that is, that you give the mayors to choose between fire or frying pan. If we want the expenditure rule to be annulled by 2020, if we want it to be annulled by 2021, if we want the deadline for the implementation of financially sustainable investments to be extended or if we want a transport fund to be extended, we have to accept the draft and support today this real decree establishing a perverse and discriminatory system that affects the vast majority of local authorities. Mrs Montero, summarizing, as much as you say, this is a bad deal for local entities and a bad news for all the neighbors who live in them. And do you know why you made such a mistake in the text of the royal decree? Because in this Government there is a great deal of pride and a lack of will for dialogue and consensus. [[Applauds]] Because it doesn't count on the FEMP's endorsement. The EMFF has always worked and sent its unanimously approved documents. You forced unanimity of municipalism; twelve socialist mayors voted in favour of this royal decree and twelve mayors of the PDECAT, Citizens and the People's Party voted against this royal decree directly. And you forced the quality vote of the Socialist president of the FEMP, Abel Caballero, who betrayed municipalism and dynamized it. [[Applauds]] You made the Socialist Party of the Government agree with the Socialist Party of the FEMP. Nothing more. There is no legitimacy to that extent. Unanimity was required. It has been wrong to lack it, precisely, the sensitivity that many of the ladies and gentlemen here have in having been councillors and mayors of peoples, in having been in the front line of battle and knowing that public savings of citizens, Minister, in the municipalities are not touched. And you have erred, Minister, because you have repeatedly ignored the requests for dialogue of the various political forces, the FEMP and the mayors. You say that parallel forums have been created. Do you think it is a parallel and insubstantial forum that seven of the top ten mayors of Spain, from eight political formations, sent you a letter on August 7, which you did not even answer? Or that in your appearance on 31 August we reached out to the various political groups and you did not raise the phone to talk to a party that has 2860 mayors, compared to the 2600 that the Socialist Party has? Do you really think you can ignore the main opposition party in this negotiation? [[Applauds]] Finally, on 1 September, thirty-one mayors of fourteen political formations shouted loud and clear that they did not want this royal decree. You have agreed to political formations that we do not agree on in almost anything, in the deep disagreement with this royal decree and with this Government. And you have decided to close for vacation, as did the Minister of Territorial Policy. This government cares so much that the Minister for Territorial Policy is not present in the most important debate on local funding that this Parliament could take on. [[Applauds]] Why has the Minister not convened the National Commission for Local Administration? The Secretary of State for Finance is present. They didn't summon him. Why did Mr. Sánchez promise the FEMP on April 20th that he would meet with them every fortnight? I would have had ten times to hear the mayors say they are against this royal decree! And you have decided to ignore it. Madam Minister, while the only ones harmed by this royal decree were the neighbors, you have remained in your no no to negotiation. And now, when you see and are aware that this is not a problem of the PP with the PSOE but of the government with the whole of this House, only then, when the PSOE stays alone, when they run a certain risk of losing this real decree, after the mobilization of all political formations and municipalism in the broad and long of Spain, they make proposals, which arrive late and bad. We cannot accept the toast to the sun that is the fruit of the despair that you have offered us here today; we will not support this royal decree as a bill, primarily because if it was urgent to approve all of this by royal decree on August 4, now you ask us to approve it as a bill and to postpone its approval to five, six months or a year? The municipalities, Minister, need help today and you can resolve it by adopting a new royal decree next Tuesday in the Council of Ministers, which I am sure if you accept the requests of the municipalities will be validated by the whole of this House. [[Applauds]] I'm finishing up. Madam Minister, neither you nor the Government have wanted to listen to us or to transfer the proposals made by the municipalities to this royal decree, a royal decree which, as I have already said, we will not support. If we did, minister, we'd be complicit in the theft of the century. Do not ask us to launder with our support the betrayal of the local entities that this royal decree represents; do not ask us to betray the thousands of mayors and tens of thousands of councillors who have given their faces, and they have saved thousands of lives in every town hall; at every moment of the worst moment of the pandemic they have been at the foot of the canyon in their tractors, attending to their citizens and giving all the help they could. If they make us choose between whitewashing the disastrous management of this government and the municipalities - and the Spaniards, of course - we choose these brave heroes who have led the municipal rebellion. Minister, rebuild, stop your fireworks, draw up a new royal decree and finally give a solution to the thousands of municipalities that have been and are in the front line of battle against the virus. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u9	Thank you very much, Mr González. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. To have to listen in this House of the People's Party to a bet on municipalism, to talk about the mayors being able to use their resources; to talk about the mayors not having to have limits on spending on their policies and competences, ladies and gentlemen, if it weren't so serious, it would be a real joke. [[Applauds]] Is the Stability Act not the work of the People's Party, Mr Terol? [[Protests]] They're starting to scream elsewhere. Sure, when it's an awkward question...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u12	...some of your lordships always come out screaming from the bottom of the band, so I'll be distracted. He won't distract me, I ask him again: Isn't the People's Party the author of the Budget Stability Act? Isn't it the People's Party that for a decade hasn't let the city councils use their remnants? Is that so? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds.-Protests]] But in addition, ladies and gentlemen - I told your partner in the Finance Committee, but today you have repeated it again in the same direction - we are not parents and children or children and parents here. Here, neither the Government nor this parliamentary group has nor has any form of paternalism, either about autonomous communities or about municipalities. They are all senior administrations and we are treated, ladies and gentlemen, not as father to son, we are treated as you, as are the public administrations. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] That's why I'm saying it about the hedgehog you used. And, Mr Terol, can you say that this government has not raised the phone to talk to the People's Party? Can you say this government hasn't raised the phone? [[Consent]] You lie, you lie and you know it, because you have been particularly in contact with the Ministry of Finance. [[Applauds]] You know that, Mr Terol, and you know the People's Parliamentary Group that we have contacted, Mr Married, right? Another thing is... no, not with you, with your group. [[Mr. White Casado makes negative gestures]] [[Several Members: Ah!]] Another thing...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u14	Excuse me, ladies, but what is this expression? Is that contacting each...? [[Protests]] I'll explain it to you. If you do not contact Mr Casado and contact the parliamentary group, is it not a management that will bring the position of the Group of the European People's Party closer together? Is the management of the People's Group represented only by Mr Casado? [[Rumors]] There's never Mr. Married in that business, so what do you mean?Is that what you're talking about? [[Applauds]] Of course we have contacted the People's Parliamentary Group and did not want to negotiate this decree-law, just as we have contacted the People's Parliamentary Group for the Autonomous Communities Fund. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Ah!]] We have contacted - there is still a person who must be who has subscribed to the ah! - but you did not want to negotiate this decree-law because you have already taken a previous position and said you were not going to validate the decree-law, and you know it. Have I not been talking to any mayor of the People's Party that you mentioned in this rostrum? What do you mean we haven't talked? What do you mean, there's been pride on the part of the executive? [[Rumors.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]] We spoke and I spoke particularly to the mayor of Zaragoza in August. You can ask your partner. I spoke to the mayor of Zaragoza. Therefore, let us not lie in the rostrum, let us not lie. [[Rumors]] The Government and the Socialist Group have done their utmost to try to reach agreement on this decree-law, and we have done so here today in the rostrum and we have done so before. And you have received the ability and the offer of being able to modulate the subject matter of the fund and the subject of the remnants as it was understood to be appropriate. You, ladies and gentlemen, are talking about the deficit, you are talking about the ERTE, you are talking about the minimum living income when you come up to the rostrum, but you have been in agreement with all the spending measures that this government has made, haven't you? At least here when we have brought in all the spending measures that have had a significant economic impact on the public arks have voted in favour of these and asked for two more hard eggs, they have asked for two more hard eggs. [[Rumors]] What is it now that you talk about deficits or waste or talk about mismanagement of public finances? I say it again, ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish Government does not need the money of the local authorities; I say it again. It is being financed at a negative interest rate, so it does not need the loan of local entities, it is a formula for them to use their remnant. [[rumors]] They will not like or think that the formula needs some other type of modulation, but for that the formula is made. And, Mr Terol, I have once again heard words like stealing from your lordship in this rostrum when the mechanism is voluntary on the part of the municipalities and it is a mechanism that, within the framework of their powers, they can decide to make it available. Robbery, Your Honor? I insist, is it not that the People's Party is interested that the words theft, theft or laundering are confused in the whole policy to answer or not answer the questions that it brings us? [[Applauds.-Protests]] I finish, ladies and gentlemen, I insist... [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have an education... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u15	I ask you to remain silent, please, and to respect the use of the floor. It is not permitted to interrupt the speaker and is currently the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I was saying, Your Honor, that I did not want to let go - and that is why I asked for the floor - of claiming the role of the FEMP, Your Honor. Serious accusations have been made about the functioning of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. Your Honor, calling into question the majority of a body that exercises it in its representation would mean, for example, calling into question the approval of the budgets of the Madrid City Council. Do you know, Mr Terol - if you want to listen to me - how the Madrid City Council approved the budgets? With the mayor's quality vote. Are the budgets of the Madrid City Council less legitimate because they are approved with the quality vote of its mayor? [[Applauds]] No, no, However, for you it is less legitimate if the FEMP does. You don't think that's illegitimate, but you do if the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces does. And most in the FEMP I want you to know that it is the fruit of most of the municipalities in this country, which have been elected by the citizens. If most municipalities have a certain political colour, it seems logical that most of the bodies representing these institutions have the same political colour. To say that the agreement with the FEMP is an agreement of the PSOE with the PSOE is to have no idea of the democratic functioning of the institutions; no idea, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] Let's be serious. If your members of the People's Party do not share the funds and the remnants, why do they not allow it to be processed as a bill and put its proposal on the table? What is the proposal of the People's Party, Mr Terol? What's the proposal? [[Rumors]] We don't know her. How do the remnants use the People's Party in their proposal? Because we don't know him. Or is it that you don't use them, or maybe the People's Party is thinking about not using those remnants because you don't know how? Is that it? Because we have not heard any proposals from the People's Party for the use of the remnants. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, that at this moment the intervention of the People's Party pursues what it pursues throughout the legislature: confrontation, frantism, wear and tear, overthrow the government. They do not care about the needs of the citizens, they do not care about the needs of the municipalities, any decree-law is an opportunity to try to wear down the government. That's what it's about, there's nothing else and that's what you're trying to do. That on this occasion the mayors of our country have been used, I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I do not think it is a receipt. If you are democrats and if you believe in municipalism, validate the decree-law, allow processing as a bill and fix what you do not share. Therefore, raise your shoulder, put proposals on the table for the rest of the political groups, and the rest of us will have an opportunity to participate. If what you do, ladies and gentlemen, is the hoax, is the rejection, not the non-use of thick words that you are trying to confuse and that do not go to the root of the problem, once again we will find ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, with a party that when it is in opposition, the only thing that you are trying to do is not recognize the legitimacy of the executive. When he is in the Government he asks for everyone's help, but when he is in the opposition he loses his sense of state party. That's what I understand, ladies and gentlemen, and that's what I want to bring to your mind. Think, validate the decree-law, treat it as a bill, and consider the alternatives they consider so that the rest of the House groups can assess them. If you do not do that, ladies and gentlemen, and all you do is try to overthrow this decree-law, you will be exposed in front of the citizens: you will not think of the municipalities, you will continue to think that the worse, that you will already come. Let Spain fall, they will lift it up. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u17	Thank you, Minister of Finance. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr González Terol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u18	Thank you very much, Minister, you have already recovered the usual tone, I see that you are again the same and that you once again think that the People's Party is an adversary and not a necessary collaborator to carry out a real decree. [[Applauds]] First mistake, Minister, you again insist, but this is not a Socialist Party problem with the People's Party, it is a Socialist Party problem with municipalism; it is a Socialist Party and government problem even with its own partners. You had to go yesterday to the desperate one to negotiate until the last hour to change the content of your royal decree, which you know is not modifiable, in order not to break your government. It is a problem with the set of political formations that have representation in municipalism. By the way, minister, since you tell me if I answer the calls from your chief of staff - which, by the way, I haven't received one in a week - have you answered the letter from the mayors who sent you on August 7, minister? Did you answer that? Have you answered, Minister, the manifesto of thirty-one mayors of fourteen political formations who told you you were wrong? [[Several Members: No]] [[Several Members: No.-Applause]] This is not a problem of PP with you, it is a problem of you, that you lack sensitivity and you lack will for dialogue and consensus to reach an agreement with the whole of municipalism. You say that you called the mayor of Zaragoza - it is true - and told him that any dialogue that could occur between the government and the municipalities would have to be through the FEMP, and then we saw statements in the press of the president of the FEMP saying that he was no one's intermediary, and therefore there has been no dialogue. What's going on, they called you so no one would answer the calls of a party that has 2860 mayors versus the 2600 you have? [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, you say that we must respect the legitimacy of the FEMP, of course, yes, that is why we unanimously approve the new governing board of the FEMP, that is why we have agreed with all the political parties, so that there is no confrontation where in the past there was and that we can unite municipalism. But let you come and tell us that you respect the dialogue with the FEMP and that you propose in this House - that, as I know, there is no one from the FEMP - to completely modify the agreement you signed and to put us in the face that we do not use and do not respect the FEMP... Minister, have you agreed with the FEMP or Abel Knight what you have come here to tell us, even though his word is worthless? Of course not, he hasn't spoken to the FEMP! Have you spoken to the vice president of the FEMP, who is of the People's Party? No! No! Again you betray municipalism because it doesn't matter, you have to be at the service of what the minister and this government want, which the municipalities and their citizens care very little about. You have no will to help the municipalities. You say that the People's Party did nothing, just made a Budget Stability Act because you left a hole in 2011 of 92 billion euros of public deficit, Your Honor! [[Applauds]] I remind you, socialist municipalities like Alcorcón, whose winning mayor, of the People's Party, in 2011 left you - the socialist governments - 612 million euros of debt. Or the Town Hall of Aranjuez, where they left a hole of 200 million euros of debt. It seems that the Budget Stability Act was a whim of the People's Party! It was because you ruined the city halls of Spain! [[Applauds]] By the way, do you want a solution, Minister? Yesterday the author of the rule, Mr Montoro, said on television that you can suspend the Budget Stability Act in exceptional situations, of course you can, you don't want to! By the way, where is the State Advocate's report that this is the only solution? Because you've already changed the argument and said the lawyer didn't say this was the only solution. In the end he ended up saying - after lying - that it was actually only a legal report, that the royal decree is legal. We'll see if it's constitutionally legal for the invasion of local autonomy. In any case, Minister, please do not come and tell us that this is the only solution and what our proposals are. If I've told you. Our proposals are the proposals of the set of mayors who have parliamentary representation: to allow local entities to spend all of their treasury remnants. How? Hey, change the object of financially sustainable investments, for example! Do you know who created financially sustainable investments, Minister? Because we do not believe them in the Budget Stability Act; it was then created in an additional sixth provision, I was then mayor, minister. It was us, to help the municipalities that were sanitizing their accounts to spend! Here our spokesman was the mayor of Logroño and was able to do so thanks to an amendment to the Budget Stability Act. So those we did not allow to spend, no; those we made to end the debt that you had left in the city halls of Spain. [[Applauds]] Cancel the spending rule for 2020 - which is said by the royal decree - but we also ask you for the creation of an unconditional fund of €5 billion by 2021. By the way, minister, before you invented this of the EUR 5 billion, your proposal was to raise the EUR 15 billion and could spend the municipalities EUR 5 billion, 35%. Can you tell me which fixed law can only be spent 35 % and not 100 %? Why didn't you set up a system for the city councils to give you the 15 billion and give you back the 15,000? What's going on? That it was necessary to keep 10,000 to finance the State box in order to be able to do something and to fulfil one of the promises that they so insist on not fulfilling. Madam Minister, our proposal is to listen to the municipalities; our proposal is to create a transport fund of EUR 1725 million; our proposal is to let the municipalities participate in the European funds; our proposal is to attend to those who really work for the citizens, who are the mayors of all the municipalities of Spain. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u19	Thank you, Mr. González. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. I give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u20	We're getting along, Mr. González Terol, aren't we? Now I do. Has the Ministry of Finance spoken to the People's Party or not, Mr. González Terol? Yeah, right? Has this minister spoken to the mayor of Zaragoza or not, Mr. Terol? Yeah, right? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Well then, Your Honor, you cannot support what you have said in this rostrum that this ministry... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u21	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u22	... hadn't addressed the People's Party, which is what you said. They lie. We have even approached the People's Party to try to reach agreement on the use of the remnants. Now it turns out, Mr Terol, that you are not the authors of the Stability Act? Now it turns out you're not responsible? [[Rumors]] Yes, they are, come on, let's move on, let's move on. [[Rumors.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]] As it seems that this, Madam President, is a chorality...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. [[Rumors]] Mr González Terol has been able to speak in silence; I ask the same for the Minister and for all those involved in this House.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u24	I ask you again, Mr González Terol: Is the People's Party the author of the Stability Act or not? It is, isn't it? Is it not the People's Party that is responsible for the fact that in the last ten years the municipalities have not been able to use their remnants? Is that right or not, ladies and gentlemen? That is what all the mayors and all the mayors know; it is absurd to deny the evidence by some members of the People's Party. Of course they are responsible for making a law that prevents the municipalities from spending their remnants, but moreover, Your Honor - as we had occasion to discuss in the Commission - the problem is not only in organic law, the problem is that the Constitution itself incorporates that limit so that the municipalities do not incur deficits. That is the problem facing the Government of Spain when it tries to ensure that the municipalities can use their resources and make better use of all the instruments available to them. That was the question and that was the answer that this decree-law was trying to give, trying to be able to move forward with regard to the restrictions of the law approved by the People's Party by absolute majority and without asking the municipalities, which at this time prevents the municipalities from spending their money. [[Applauds]] You may or may not discuss the legitimacy of the agreement with the FEMP by most of the FEMP, but it is that you did not speak with the FEMP; you removed competencies from the municipalities and you did not speak with the FEMP when you reviewed the Local Administration Basics Act. You put in place a law of stability that prevents you from spending your resources and you did not talk to the FEMP, Mr González Terol, so what is the reason for this criticism of the government? The Government had spoken to the legitimate body representing the municipalities; it had obtained an agreement after two months of negotiation with that body. You said it right. If you know the story! You said it right. At first, the Ministry of Finance wanted the 5 billion to be part of the remnants. Right. It was the FEMP that, throughout its negotiation, separated the remaining 5 billion from the remaining ones. If that journey is the one that has been made during this topic! And, Mr González Terol, how is the proposal of the People's Party the proposal that the rest have? The People's Party, which is criticizing this measure, comes up here and when asked what is the People's Party's alternative, says Mr González Terol that the People's Party's alternative is the one that the rest of the groups have here. I mean, they have no proposals, they have no alternatives, they don't care about the issue of municipalities, and what they're pursuing is wear and tear. [[Applauds]] By the way, Mr González Terol, what Mr Montoro has said is what this decree-law says. Or not? Or did he say something else? Didn't Mr Montoro say that the expenditure rule could be suspended? Question, does this decree-law not carry the suspension of the spending rule? Mr. Montoro - he hasn't said it, but I'm telling you - has transmitted... [[Rumors]] I tell you, yes, I am the Minister of Finance, no matter how much you weigh. I'm the finance minister. [[Applauds]] I'll tell him. The financially sustainable investments, Mr González Terol, which you are demanding are not in the decree-law? So why not validate it for financially sustainable investments to come into force? Mr. Terol, is it not in the decree-law that the municipalities can use their remnants to the limit set by the Constitution? Isn't it in the decree-law? Why don't they approve it so the city halls can do it? Isn't the EIP update in the decree-law? Why not allow the municipalities to benefit from this and from the 400 million fund? And those who do not want to make their remnant available to the Government of Spain, who do not make it available, who take advantage of the IFS, who take advantage of the treasury remnants up to the deficit limit, who take advantage of the suspension of the expenditure rule, who take advantage of the Transport Fund, who take advantage of the possibility of being able to update their financing with the update of the deliveries on account. In short, ladies and gentlemen, that the municipalities of this country benefit to allow better services to the citizens. Why don't you allow it? Because you intend to overthrow the decree-law and that those measures will not come into force tomorrow? Aren't they the ones you claim in that rostrum? They are the ones you claim in this rostrum. And aren't they the ones who see the norm? Why don't you allow it? And you say: You, the desperate, try to negotiate. Look at you, Your Honor, the desperate no, in the responsibility we try to negotiate. This government costs that decree-law more than €6 billion, it's not a gift, it's not a confiscation, it's not a theft. This decree-law costs the public accounts 6 billion euros of the Government of Spain that it makes available to local corporations. Why do they not allow those who want to benefit from the distribution of this fund? And we will continue until the last minute, ladies and gentlemen, Mr González Terol, until the last minute, negotiating with the political groups because that is our obligation, to negotiate, to dialogue and to reach agreements, and we will do so until the moment when it is inevitable that your ladies and gentlemen can forget the responsibility we have for the municipalities. The last thing I'm going to tell the People's Party is that, in fact, there are many mayors who are ruling the People's Party representing the interests of their citizens in all the municipalities of our geography. There are many of them, ladies and gentlemen, and they are not worth the lamentations, nor are they worth the reproaches. We have the opportunity here and now to allow them to do all that: suspend the spending rule, financially sustainable investments, the ability to use part of their remnants, update the IEP and let those who are bankrupt have financial aid. Why deny the bread and salt to the city halls? That you don't share a part of the decree-law? Change. We have already said that, change yourself, but why punish the municipalities in order to try to punish this government? Why use hostages permanently, ladies and gentlemen, in order to punish this Government, to obstruct the action of this Government or not to exercise the powers and responsibilities that each of them has? I think the position has been perfectly fixed. With your words, Mr Terol, it has become clear that this Government has tried to make this royal decree-law with the People's Party, but it was not possible. I hope that your ladies and gentlemen and the rest of the political groups will not follow the path of the People's Party today, which has clearly shown its purpose or purpose and how little it cares about the municipalities. You do, ladies and gentlemen, pursue the general interest, validate this royal decree-law and allow its processing as a bill. Thank you very much. [[Mr Gonzalez Terol asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u25	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Mr González Terol, the debate is closed. There is no double turn and allusions have been the usual ones in a contradictory debate, where each position has been defended sufficiently. Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, first and foremost Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. At the risk of influencing the Minister of Finance's irritation, I also reject the validation of this royal decree-law, which in practice involves the seizure of the savings of the municipalities, which reduced their debt by 28.65 % since 2015 in contrast to all the public administrations, which increased theirs by 20.46 %. The agreement promoted by the Government and supported to a severe extent by the quality vote of the President of the FEMP is, moreover, an unprecedented blow in the thirty-five years of the history of an entity that precisely forged the progress of municipalism around consensus, and which has now been marked by partisan interests linked to the strategies of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. Today, they intend to apply the legislative consequences of the unnecessary constitutional reform of article 135, resulting from the catastrophic economic management of the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero, to local authorities. Now they return to the walks trying to appropriate the administration of their own remnants. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca, and thank you for taking the floor from the seat. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u28	Thank you very much. Good morning. Last week in the Finance Commission all groups expressed themselves freely and without pressure and the result was unanimous: total rejection of the royal decree-law. I want to make a simple and constructive proposal here today. Given that article 135 is the main stumbling block, given the discrimination that the municipalities have over other administrations and that the current wording is due to an express amendment of the Constitution in a fair month, I propose that you make an express amendment to article 135.4 by abolishing this discrimination and including local entities in exceptional cases. There are nine words and one coma and, for greater assurance and legal certainty, an additional provision allowing the Government to amend the organic development law by decree-law. Gentlemen of the PSOE, they're making life more difficult for nothing. Let the municipalities spend their leftovers. It will be much more effective, much fairer and, above all, much faster than those funds from Europe that will take more than a year to come or those that come from the government itself, that so much our peoples and our cities need, certainly in Cantabria and throughout Spain as well.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u29	Mr. Mazón, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u30	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u32	And I also ask the members of the People's Party to be consistent with their defense of municipal autonomy and to leave out the municipalities of their political disputes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Rincón. Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I do not think the government had much interest in this decree being validated. If we have learned something in recent months about positions when the Government brings decrees to this House, it is that, when it has a clear interest in something being approved, it negotiates to the full and it ends up adopting. That is the experience we have so far and, therefore, it will have to be concluded that this is an issue that even the Government itself was hoping for to be rejected, which I do not know if it is to achieve that billions of euros savings to which the Minister referred or because those counterweights that exist within the Government leave the Minister of Finance itself in a complicated or different situation with respect to one of her colleagues. In any case, we will pay attention to municipal autonomy and what the mayors say. The mayors of Union del Pueblo Navarro have told us that we vote no to this decree because they understand that they are being treated as a second administration; because they believe that they want to take advantage of the money of the citizens who have been saved over the years to lend it to the government and receive nothing in return; because they believe that they are being blackmailed, because they say that they are volunteering but if you do not give up your resources you receive nothing and therefore you take it or leave it. In addition, today too, we have wanted to blackmail everyone with the additional and final provisions. If the additional and final provisions of the decree are so important, make two decrees. Bring one specifically for the topics of the local administration and bring another decree with all those additional and final provisions that relate to another set of things and that will be validated. Therefore, the interest of the Government in this case was clearly to continue to maintain municipal administrations as they are now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Rincón. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, it does not happen every day that a Member like you has been talking to you for more than a week trying to have a conversation with the government to try to find a way out of this situation, to the point that I waited until late at night and this morning at nine minus five I was forced to vote no. Do you know what's going on? That no one was more against the Law on budgetary stability - also yes, but no more - than this speaking Member and his party, New Canarias; which is why we are not suspicious of being in this with what intention is not known. There hasn't been a chance. Someone was exhausted from negotiating with no one knows who and didn't end up talking to me. Maybe one is just one, but in that case, I have to tell you to make it clear. Secondly, the local corporations are the same as the autonomous communities, the autonomous governments and the Government of Spain; the same, and the needs are equal or greater. Won't you be telling us that if this royal decree-law is not validated, the municipalities will be abandoned to their fate? I trust it's not that. Let us once again tell him that we are open to speaking with clear content in a document on how a bill should be designed to deal with this situation. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u37	Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Do you know why they didn't call me, Minister? Because I would have told you that you are a blackmailer, that you lack the truth and, in addition, you have pride. You have to be mayor to know that right now with your own money, that you have in the banks and that you do not let them take, you have to attend to the people who have not charged the ERTE, to those who have not received the minimum vital income, to the people who cannot pay the masks, the light, the water and the diapers of the children, to hire social workers and to pay the payroll. And you know what the alternative is? First, pass today a decree for the rest of things and that next week we validate it, do not blackmail us. And for this, bring in in twenty-four hours the draft amendment of the organic law and article 135, as was done at the time; if you want, it will be amended unanimously by this House. Who are you to tell the mayors what you have to spend the money on? Who are you to say, with the city's own money, if 5,000, 10,000, or 14 billion? Who are you to decide how much you can recover from a money that is from the citizens of those municipalities? Don't lie, don't manipulate. And the rest of things, approve them today in a decree, but don't blackmail them, minister. I have been mayor, and I know that in a town hall you have to be now with the social misery, with poverty, that you have to face everything. You need to pay the payroll and hire social workers, you need to help people pay the light...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u39	Mrs. Oramas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Rincón. Finally, also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u42	Thank you. We will also oppose the Royal Decree-Law and we would like to point out that it is a new contradiction of the PSOE government and the United We can, that during the years in which the PP has had power they have made the flag of the repeal of some of its most powerful laws and, however, once they are in power, make use of these laws. It is the case of the Law of the Labour Reform - more fines have been imposed with the Law of the Labour Reform than all those put by the PP -; it is the case of the Law of the Labour Reform - all the dismissals that are taking place and that unfortunately will be given with the conditions of the labor reform that you promised to repeal -; and it is the case now of the Montoro laws, to which you also opposed at the time. They are used to centralize savings, reminding us that centralism is not an exclusive issue of the right, but that even those who maintain a federal or confederal rhetoric also use centralism when it suits them. And this is a bad omen of how you will manage the European reconstruction funds. When article 135 of the Constitution is placed as the limit on the capacity of municipalities to use these savings, they better put it to us. Even you and your President, Mr Pedro Sánchez, had admitted that it was a mistake to reform Article 135 - because of the demands of the European Union - by agreeing with the PP. Why, instead of bringing this royal decree-law today, do they not propose to repeal that reform of article 135 and to revert to some rules of the game in which the municipalities are not bound by their feet and hands to use their savings? More social investment is needed in times of crisis; the municipalities are at the forefront of these social problems and must do so without the imposition of the centralist state and the debt rules that the European Union also imposes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Rincón. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u44	Eskerrik asko, Madam President. Madam Minister, I told you in the Commission before which you appeared fifteen days ago, some mistake must have been made in this way so that a decree which a priori was formulated as an exit for the municipalities in this crisis situation has become the touchstone of a very complicated problem, with multiple aspects, rather than a solution. The truth is that the approach from the very beginning has already been rather convoluted. I think it is necessary to admit this, because to propose to the municipalities that give up as a loan to the State the remnants that have not been allowed to be spent by a law that has been drowning them for ten years, and that part of these given savings be returned to them so that they can use them and the rest are returned to them at the age of fifteen, he will admit that he invites at least a degree of perplexity. Moreover, if it is presented as something voluntary when in reality the municipalities that do not give up their remnants will be penalised and would not receive the corresponding part of the European funds to combat the crisis, rather than a convoluted approach, let us say that it is a very subtle form of coercion or coercion. I think that the municipalities have been putting up with the nonsense of the situation to which the Budget Stability Act has given them too long, because that is the problem, the real problem that local authorities have and that drowns the municipalities. First was Article 135, approved in 2011 also with the votes of the PSOE, PP and PSOE. That is the one that gave priority to paying the debt over any other public expenditure. And then, in 2012, the PP government took advantage of its absolute majority to pass the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, which specified the 135 mandate. Well, all this, among other issues, has led to a severe application of the so-called expenditure rule, which prevents municipalities, whose competences are essential for the well-being of citizens, more now than ever in the midst of a crisis, from using the money they do not have in any way, even if they have it. Indeed, it is quite a nonsense, it is a violation of municipal autonomy, an unjust imposition and a measure questionable even because of its real effectiveness, except, of course, the detail that this mechanism has been the one that has allowed for years to square the accounts to meet the deficit targets imposed by Europe. Thanks to the city halls, look where. There, only there, and only for the State, lies the effectiveness of that measure. I think there are reasons for changing what needs to be changed, and I think it is also necessary to remember that in other European countries the expenditure rule does not apply to each public administration separately as it is done in the Spanish State, it is not mandatory and therefore does not entail sanctions. Solving the situation of the municipalities requires amending the Budget Stability Act, making the spending rule more flexible and restoring respect for municipal autonomy to its proper place. I believe that this accidental journey that has had the decree until arriving here today has much to do with wanting to avoid going to the problem from the root. That has probably been the mistake, the starting approach, the approach that eludes looking at the real problem, the basic one, which is nothing other than that law that needs to be amended, and what was - remember? one of the points that led the two parties that form the government today to their respective electoral campaigns. Needs in towns and cities will increase and continue to increase. Our formation, Euskal Herria Bildu, is a municipalist formation. We have a commitment to the municipalities of our country. For this reason, for this municipal defense, we remain committed to the repeal of all that the Montoro Law implies of injustice for the municipalities. For that commitment and for the measures that really help to alleviate the needs that have to be met by both those who have left and those who are in a bad economic situation, you, Mrs Montero, and your Government can count on our support. They will not count on our support for this decree, which is inexhaustible as it is drafted. In fact, if there was any solution, in the hypothetical case - far I believe, as things stand - that it should be validated, which seems not, it would be because it was already born with the commitment to be substantially modified and that its most controversial articulations, the 3 and the 4 would disappear and the allocation of funds would be made in another way. Yes, I recognize that in the royal decree there are measures that are beneficial, but we will not support it because a decree that does not serve to solve the problem it claims is a decree that does not deserve to be passed. We will say yes, on the other hand, that, if it is validated, it is treated as a bill so that it can be amended and, consequently, it is adapted to what the municipalities need, but without forgetting that what is urgent is to amend the Budget Stability Act because, otherwise, this intricate labyrinth through which his ministry has passed with this decree will continue to be there and with no way out of sight. We must be careful with the labyrinths, minister, because the intersections of parallel and transversal corridors are persecuted by confusion. The original labyrinths, which were built in ancient times, were made with a clear objective: that it could not be right with the exit. That's the strange logic of mazes and maybe that's why there's only one way to represent them graphically: with a look from above. That's the look we think you need this problem. They don't insist there's no other way out. It can be done, there are other exits. Section 135 can be dismantled and the Stability Act can also be dismantled. We shall see the result of this vote. If it is not adopted, transitional quick formulas could be found, if desired, which involve the majority support of this House and which really respond to the real needs of the municipalities and to the other issues mentioned in this decree. Orders come out every week, minister; it's not that difficult, it's not that complicated. Includ yourself the good measures it contains - it contains them, I have already told you - and eliminate the harmful ones, which also has them. The most convenient thing at the moment is to get rid of labyrinths, follow the straightest and clearest line possible. I am sure that such new measures would not require as many goings and goings as this decree or a thread of Ariadna to find the way out. Things in politics are simpler than we sometimes want to look...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u45	Mrs. Aizpurua, I would have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u46	One last sentence. Thank you. You have to know what you want to do, who you want to do it with and what steps you have to take to do it. It's that simple, no labyrinths, minister. It's that simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u48	Thank you, President. Egun on. Royal Decree-Law 27/2020, a decree that has been preceded by controversy and with a broad rejection that we are also seeing today in this House. It is a controversial decree because, according to the Government, it solves the problem of the use of the remnants accumulated by the municipalities since 2012, some remnants that, as has been said here, can hardly be spent due to the corset that has established us the Law on Stability. Madam Minister, honestly, we have not just seen or understood the solution you propose. To this day, the decree only allows to use part of that extraordinary fund, not of the remnants, because of these it will be possible to begin to dispose of within two years and with deliveries for ten or fifteen years, and only for those municipalities that previously give them all their savings. Today, this decree does not allow the use of remnants, do not make mistakes, but only allows the use of the fund and for certain things. But for the Basque Parliamentary Group there is a fundamental reason, and it is that this decree does not take into account the Economic Concert or the Navarro Convention. It does not address the particular financial relationship between the outlaw communities and the State, a bilateral relationship between Governments. It should be remembered that in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country the financial protection of local entities is the responsibility of the outlaws and that, therefore, there are three outlaws which regulate budgetary stability and financial sustainability and, among other things, the use of the remnants and surpluses. It is therefore up to them to take any decision on this matter. This, Minister, is the great difference we have with the rest of the autonomous communities which also have this financial guardianship, but which simply confine themselves to ensuring compliance with the rules of stability and monitoring and authorizing financial economic plans. Obviously, one day and another too, the existence of foral financing systems, which implies that any agreement on the financing and financial sustainability of the Basque institutions must be addressed and adopted bilaterally in the Joint Economic Concert Commission. They have forgotten the peaceful way that should have been used to address this issue, where appropriate. In addition, it should be remembered that Basque municipalities are not financed from State resources, but from their own resources and outside funds. There is no transfer of economic flows from the State; that is, no money is received from the State. We therefore believe that there should be no such flows between the remnants and therefore that we should not be subject to this decree; it would be to transfer money from one funding system to another that has nothing to do with it. It is also a somewhat improvised decree because they have been modifying as they realized that they did not have the support of most municipalities. At first, the decree was designed to voluntarily lend the remnants to the State, in exchange for the possibility of the use of that 35% of their remnant, of the remnant own of the municipalities, and, as it did not create, was modified by an extraordinary credit of 35% of the contributions committed by the municipalities, up to a maximum of 5 billion that is not 5000. Although the transfer of remnants is voluntary, it is no less true that those who do not accept it will not be able to access the fund, they will continue to keep the remnants frozen in the bank without being able to use them. And whoever takes care of it will also be subject to condition. And it is that, as I said, money from the fund can only be used in certain areas; a kind of limitation of the autonomy of the municipalities, a kind of guardianship, which we do not agree with, since the local entities are the administrations closest to the citizens, who better know their needs. That is why we believe that they must be able to spend their money on those needs and policies that are of interest to their citizens or to the interest they detect between citizens and neighbours. It should not be forgotten that the remnants of the treasury they have are the result of the fiscal effort of the citizenry, of the renunciation of certain investments and, ultimately, of the good and strict management carried out in the municipalities, also in the midst of a crisis. We have not really just seen or been made clear by their explanations why they link the remnants to the bottom, establishing a kind of prize to those who have remnants and obviating the different casuistics of why some do not have them. [[The Lord]] It is a decree, in short, that transfers the adjusted one, but that, yes, legitimate agreement with the FEMP, that goes forward with great opposition. But so are the majorities and democracy and, therefore, nothing to object to, although it is strange that he has accepted an agreement that is far from what he claimed on his Board of Governors, on 22 May, in the document entitled: Local Pillars for the Economic and Social Revitalization of the Local Administration, a document that was the free use of the remnant of treasury. It is also true and fair to acknowledge that the decree sets out other measures which are positive and with which we agree, with some nuance; as you have said, the non-requirement of compliance with the expenditure rule, extension of the extension of sustainable financial investments, use of the remainder for general expenses, extraordinary transport fund. These measures, unfortunately, if the decree is not validated today, will fall; and we are concerned that, as you have advanced, they cannot be implemented in another new decree. Of course, it is neither logical nor common sense that with a situation arising from the COVID, an unheard-of crisis in which the administrations have to incur significant expenses in order to compensate it and, therefore, it is necessary to have liquidity, there are idle resources of the municipalities and that these cannot be used by arguing the impossibility of doing so by the Montoro law, the Law of stability; a law that would not be possible if, previously, a socialist government had not expressly amended, also in August, article 135 of the Constitution. It is not a question of holding one bank or another responsible, but neither can a Government be shielded from the impossibility of changing laws. And knowing, of course, that it is urgent to make decisions on such an important issue, how much better it would have been to seek a majority agreement. I believe that the Government and all of us have missed a good opportunity. It's true that we've tried in the last few days and hours, but it couldn't be. In any case, we do not share the formula adopted to solve this issue, which in purity does not allow the use of the remnants, but the bottom. If the decree is validated, these will be used, if any, when they are returned and, if necessary, it will be necessary to see how it is applied and whether these stability rules continue to remain. In summary, the Royal Decree does not take into account the existence of outlaw regimes; it does not resolve the main claims of most municipalities, which are available to all their remnants; an exception to the expenditure rule for 2021; and, most worryingly, that since the time when the assignment of all the remnants is being requested for fifteen years, with no return from 2022 onwards, it seems to indicate that there is no possibility of amending the Stability Act, a claim that has been specific to the municipalities. The root of the problem of the remnants is in the Stability Act, and as long as there is no change to it, we will only be talking about patches. The truth is that today we see no political will for any change in this regard, not even in this exceptional context. We have not just understood this, as I said, because it is a demand of the vast majority of parliamentary groups. To conclude - and as I said earlier - if this decree is not validated today, the provisions that, in our view, were positive and other provisions that have nothing to do with local entities will also fall. He may be tempted today to try to shift blame to the different groups, but the truth is that it will be the same for everyone before society, although he also knows that the responsibility of both groups is not the same. The rushes are not good counselors; it is a decree that was issued hastily so that it would then be validated or repealed in a kind of take or leave it, without just room for negotiation, and for when we have resumed the path of dialogue, in the last few hours, it has been late. What has again been highlighted is the need to respond to the demands of local entities and, in particular, the need to reform the Stability Act, something that the Basque Group has been demanding, more now, to respond to the needs arising from the pandemic, in a context in which Europe has also proceeded with the suspension of the Stability Pact so that countries can spend freely according to their needs. It is paradoxical that countries can be liberated from the Stability Plan and local entities, however, cannot do so...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u49	Mrs. Sagastizabal, please go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u50	Yeah, I'm finishing up. ... when the origin of this non-compliance is to be based on the same cause. If, as all points out, today this decree is not validated, that idea that is being transferred from the Government of the impossibility of rectification or of adopting another decree will prevent approval of the positive measures with which most groups could agree and which would raise the slab that the rule of stability imposes on local entities. We should not make this mistake again, since we all lose, people, citizenship, because, in the end, those measures, which are aimed at the actions of the municipalities, finally move and affect our quality of life. It is time to park the differences and look for the meeting points, which there are, if not through a new decree can be even in other laws. You know, minister - and I finish - that we have tried to reach an agreement in extremis. It is not our goal to wear down his Government; we have shown it on numerous occasions, but this time it will not be possible to do so. And believe me, we regret it. Today we cannot validate this decree to leave it at the dawn of a bill, because this is not a question of a couple of amendments, it is something more complex.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u51	Your Honor, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u52	If it does not finally come forward, I believe that in most of the speeches you will be able to find the keys to returning to the path of dialogue and agreement. Our group, of course, is once again showing you the open hand and predisposition to such dialogue on this and other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u53	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u54	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, for its validation, Royal Decree 27/2020 comes; a decree that has achieved the long-awaited consensus: all political forces, including prominent members of the Socialist Party, have opposed the Government's proposal. And believe us when we tell you that it is bad news that in such an important matter for the municipalities, as the margin they have to deal with this crisis, the Government has arrived in this House without any kind of consensus. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, unity must not only be called upon, it must be practised. We tell you sincerely, with the strength of reason and of the facts that have shown us that, if there is will, Citizens is there. Unfortunately, we cannot say that this decree is inspired by the real needs of the municipalities, which are going through a very important crisis. Nor is it inspired by the response we have to have as a country to this pandemic. Not so much in the economic problems that citizens have because of this economic crisis that comes after the health crisis. They also forget the economic opinion that was adopted in this House as a result of the Reconstruction Commission, which was so hard to achieve and which was achieved thanks to Citizens. I insist, gentlemen of the Government, unity is not impossible - we know that - but you must know that unity is not unconditional either. It seems to us, ladies and gentlemen, that this proposal is based only on partyism and not on the real needs that this crisis has brought us. In Citizens we have taken a step forward and have asked the Government for a political truce to put partyism and politics aside and let us all focus together on a single possible goal in the situation we live in: saving lives and saving jobs. This political truce must leave the Government and find an opposition to it, which is exactly the opposite of what this proposal represents, which has angered even the mayors themselves. We discussed this royal decree last week in the Commission. The minister appeared and came to explain the inexplicable. There we all agreed, and when I say it all, I say it all, including the spokesman for the United Nations Podemos, who said so in the Commission. The first thing we were told was that what came to be voted on in the FEMP was an agreement between the Government and the FEMP. No, Minister, what was voted on there was a negotiation between the Socialist Party of Government and the Socialist Party of Town Halls. He voted and obtained 12 votes in favour and 13 not in favour, and came out thanks to the quality vote of the President of the FEMP, also of the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, this decree does not provide solutions to a local administration that has had to deal with a great deal of effort in the face of this crisis. You yourself said in the Commission in this House that nothing else was in your mind. Well, we could have proposed what we had on the table. Why didn't you listen to the rest of the games? Why didn't you listen to the citizenry? Why didn't you listen to the mayors? I'm sorry to tell you, but this royal decree wants to put between the sword and the wall the parties, and puts between the sword and the wall the municipalities. The remaining municipalities will only be able to access these funds, those 5 billion, if they give their remaining ones and, in addition, the rest will be returned to them in comfortable terms, fifteen years, almost nothing! But it is that the municipalities that have no remnant, either are indebted or there is nothing to do. In short, ladies and gentlemen, what you are making us vote for today is not just that, that the remnants are handed over, but how we have to spend them. Ladies and gentlemen, you are telling us that you are presenting a plan and that we approve it today as an opposition that we are and that it will then change. Wouldn't it be quicker for us to sit down first and negotiate, and then announce and vote? We cannot trust that it will be dealt with as a draft law and in that process of the draft law to make the changes, because we have been awaiting six months of processing as a draft law of Royal Decree 8/2020. Citizens are proving that we know how to seek unity for the good of the Spaniards. We are the useful and responsible opposition, and that is why we always try to accompany every criticism with a proposal. And here is the proposal of my parliamentary group: that a fund of 5 billion be created, just as it was created for the autonomous communities, in this case for the municipalities, but for everyone, whether or not they have a remnant. Because the coronavirus crisis, this health crisis has affected everyone equally. We cannot look now at who has and who has no remnant. Still, I'd like to see what happens to those remnants. The opinion of the Reconstruction Commission adopted an amendment supported by most parties, which showed a consensus that the problem of the remnants must be addressed. If there is to be a legislative change, get on with it. Mrs. Montero, you're alone today, but you're not alone. Rethink, rectify, bring in a new royal decree with consensus and you will always find the useful opposition of Citizens, willing to grab their shoulders to solve the economic crisis that the municipalities of Spain are suffering. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfection of the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, I sincerely hoped that I would not have to repeat the arguments expressed last week in the Finance Committee because the government - or the PSOE, we shall see - would have rectified, but it has not. In the view of the BNG, the measure provided for in Royal Decree 27/2020 entails a genuine seizure by the State of the remedies of the municipalities. And it is a mistake in which they persist, precisely at the time when those funds were most needed to be available to the councils. There is no doubt that the blockade of municipal remnants is an unfair measure, especially in our country, in Galicia, because the criteria of the system of financing local entities harm us where the councils enter 50 euros less than average per inhabitant than the whole Spanish state. By the way, your proposal to negotiate on this subject, based on the distribution of 60% by population, would further aggravate this situation, obviating criteria that are fundamental to us, such as territorial dispersion or ageing of the population. The BNG therefore strictly rejects the Government's claim to appropriate the resources saved by the councils. There is no point in the argument that the law must be enforced, because what is to be done with the Montoro Law is to repeal it. Curiously, this government, which is self-titled the most progressive in history, does the same with this law as it did with other rules of the anti-social government stage of the People's Party, such as the Mordaza Act or labour reform: applying them instead of repealing them. And finally, I end up making a brief reference to an aspect of the decree that we believe to be unfair. The eighth additional provision leaves out the recognition as a labour accident of the infection by COVID-19 to the technicians and techniques of care of dependent persons in the home.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u57	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u58	This is, therefore, an aspect that we necessarily believe needs to be changed. In any case, the BNG will vote no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u59	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor to Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u60	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Montero, what starts wrong, ends badly. An agreement was forced with forces of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, and during this time, sincerely, it has seemed to us that more than negotiation has been wanted to blame us. We have been asked to be held responsible for this, we have been asked to be held responsible for voting with the PP and they have not been able to add a single vote to their majority. And just moving, they added the common ones yesterday afternoon. I didn't like your claim that it's here and now. Yes, of course, this royal decree is here and now, but, Mrs Montero, by dead decree, decree laid down. Let's not make a drama of today; tomorrow they can pass a decree with everything we agree on, and it's a lot. And during this time, negotiate, but negotiate well, not at last hour and night. We can't be negotiating at night. Look, you learn a lot more from defeats than from victories, I've already told the People's Party. Learn, learn you don't have an absolute majority. Learn to negotiate better, learn that they have allies, not palm trees. It's up to you. There are solutions. Here are some sketches. If we negotiate, we can certainly find the solution to help the municipalities, who need it and a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u61	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u62	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, I respect the FEMP and its President, on the part of this spokesman and my group, absolutely everything. I respect the Catalan Association of Municipalities and the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia, absolutely everything. There the agreements have not been taken by quality vote of the president, they were voted almost unanimously; they represent one hundred percent of the municipal entities of Catalonia and it was of absolute rejection of the royal decree-law. Therefore, for some reason it will be. Minister, you are asking for proposals, we have made them and I will comment on them: suspension of the spending rule for local corporations 2020-2021; the 5 billion of the fund to be distributed among all municipalities, according to population or other criteria, among all municipalities, without excluding absolutely none, not 60% but 100%. Just as in the autonomous communities the 16 billion were distributed among all the autonomous communities regardless of their financial situation, exactly the same for the municipalities. The issue of the remnants. Madam Minister, this spokesman, and I think the majority, we come here to the plenary and to the House studied and read. In my case, I have been, for many years, a humble mayor, like many of the speakers who have spoken today or are going to speak here; I have been and am a professor of Public Finance; listen, listen because there are proposals. There is no need to amend Article 135 - I sincerely say this - so that the municipalities can incorporate their remnants without affecting budgetary stability; that is possible technically; politically, of course, and also technically. Therefore, a certain humility. It is not necessary for the municipalities, according to their mechanism, to lend the money so that, then, you will return it, since when you incorporate it it will also affect stability, it will also generate deficit, each year smaller, and so, in your opinion, you will be able to incorporate it into your budget. They can apply exactly the same mechanism without borrowing and thus avoid speculation of certain political formations. Minister, today this royal decree-law is not going to be validated and you are not going to be the prime minister who passes through this trance. The truth is that there have been few ministers who have passed through this trance. I, in my short parliamentary life have lived two; if you remember, they were the royal decree-law of the greenhouse, with Minister De la Serna, and the royal decree-law of the leases, with Minister Ábalos, a companion of his cabinet. And you know what the two ministers did? What any minister should do: beyond the situation - which should hurt him - to swallow his pride, negotiate with the rest of the House and immediately bring another royal decree-law that has guaranteed its approval, as did his predecessors, and that is possible. I give you a clue, with all the humility of the world: in the two royal decree-laws that were laid down and subsequently approved, my parliamentary group was decisive. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u63	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum).]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u64	Bon dia, president, deputies and deputies. Good morning, minister. As you know, we will vote no to this royal decree which attempts to regulate financial measures affecting local entities and which, above all, affect the remnants that have been blocked in banks many municipalities since the People's Party and Minister Montoro passed the Budget Stability Act in 2012. Let me tell you, minister, without acrid - as he said - that they have done so as badly as they have known and have been able. We warned you weeks ago - and other parliamentary groups also did - that this royal decree might not be validated. You have been a minister for two years and nine months and you have not been able to agree with any parliamentary group - only with your partners and at the last minute - a solution to unlock the 21 billion euros of leftovers blocked in the banks and which should be allocated to the most urgent needs of citizens, which are many. Therefore, our position is not clear and consistent and, as I have already announced, the municipalities, cities and deputations governed by Esquerra Republicana will not transfer their remnants to the State. With this royal decree, the self-named most progressive government in history refuses to provide the municipalities with the tools and resources necessary to overcome the social and economic crisis from the very near. On the contrary, it decides to bet, once again, on the classic recipes of all the governments that have so far ruled the Spanish state: recentralisation and austerity, and above all it leaves out those municipalities that have no remnants and that have more urgency than ever. It must be hard for the mayors of the PSOE and the United Nations.We can see how your government has given up ending the austerity framework that they had so many times criticized. We are used to listening to these parties talk about the need to get out of this crisis by applying a different recipe to the austere practice of the PP, but at the time of truth they carry out the same policy as Mr Montoro: the limitation of public investment precisely when it is more necessary than ever. Look, I've been mayor of my municipality and I know that many of you too. I propose an exercise of empathy: What would you think today if you were presiding over a consortium with millions of euros in the bank and in the heart of the COVID-19 pandemic could you not use them? Well, this is what is happening now: EUR 21 billion frozen without being used. This proposal is an attack by the Government of the State on local administrations; in fact, they try to carry out the principle of local autonomy and claim that the municipalities allow the State to exercise bank power, staying with its remnants for many years. You also tell us that we are adopting this royal decree, that it is being processed as a law and that the groups are submitting amendments to correct it; that they are going to move and that part of this 5 billion that they have announced will be transferred to all the municipalities completely lost; today you have spoken of 3 billion euros. Do you know what's going on, minister? That they have made this trap so many times - so many times - that it no longer hangs. When they are not interested in amending a valid royal decree-law, they do not call for the presentation of the law and, therefore, nothing is changed. For us you have zero credibility - zero credibility - because you act in the same way as the PP, implementing the same re-centralizing and austerid policies. You repeat - you have repeated many times - in your interventions that there is no second chance. I do not know if for you there will be a second chance - in fact, the failure to validate this royal decree-law is a failure for you and for the government, but above all for the municipalities - but surely those who deserve a second chance are the municipalities and the mayors of this country. Therefore, we do not close to reaching an agreement from now on, when this royal decree falls, because we are a municipalist party, we are a transformative party and we are a party whose priority is that municipalities can solve their problems. You know our proposals, we have sent them to you in the last few days. First, that the remnants and surpluses of the municipalities can be used freely with immediate effects; it is a question of respecting the principle of local autonomy. Secondly, that municipalities with few savings but with financial capacity - such as Barcelona, for example - can resort to indebtedness to address the challenges of social and economic recovery. Third, that the State provide the municipalities with the fund of 5 billion euros that they have announced, but without conditions or blackmail, simple institutional loyalty. Fourth, and last, that local authorities be exempted from compliance with the Budget Stability Act for financial years 20 and 21. In exceptional times, exceptional measures. You see, minister, clear conditions and open hand. They have a parliamentary majority to approve that municipalities can be useful to their citizens and to put an end to the austere policies of the People's Party. If they don't, it's because they don't want to. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u65	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u66	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Madam Minister, I must confess that since I was given the task of defending my group's position on this point, I have developed a certain complex of funambulist, balancing. It has been in the public domain for weeks that the chapter on emergency municipal financing to meet the needs of the COVID crisis has strained the seams not only of the government coalition, but also the interior of the political spaces that make up it. I dare say even that there have also been your tensions within other political forces represented here on such a delicate subject and in such an extraordinary context as the one we live in. In any case, your ladies and gentlemen will agree with me that some of these tensions are going through my group, since our political leaders in the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces did not endorse the last agreement reached by this institution and the Government itself to which, on the other hand, we are a party. Faced with this panorama, one has the temptation to avoid these thorny themes and take refuge in reproach, in reproach against the whirlwinds of cynicism that spring from popular benches as an eternal manna. Today we have seen it; this morning the truth is that I had to go out at some point to get some air. Yes, of course, I say all this because it is easy to explain, as has already been done here today, that the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Fiscal Sustainability, approved by an absolute popular majority there for 2012, is precisely the normative lock that has prevented mobilising municipal remnants, and has prevented it at a time of historical urgency such as the current one in which the municipalities have been the first dam of containment in the face of the health, social and economic tsunami that we have experienced. Therefore, seeing them now in the task of taking over the municipalist flag, after having razed with the financial maneuvering capacity of the municipalities, produces, at least, some shame from others. That, moreover, they have been closed to any agreement or even negotiation to allow a speedy solution to this pressing problem and given the number of mayors governed by members of the People's Party, adds a grotesque dose of irresponsibility to this self-proclaimed party. But I am not going to take refuge in the easy resource, I am not going to appeal only to indignation, so I am going to try to explain here today the political position that we have been defending on this issue. And I will try to do so both with the honesty that I owe to the citizenry and to all my fellow politicians and with loyalty to the Government that from my parliamentary group we help to sustain it. We have all witnessed the institutional challenge it has brought about, which still today represents this pandemic. In view of this, the Government urgently approved a series of shock measures, including the injection of EUR 16 billion into the autonomous communities so that the public networks, both health and education, of this country could withstand the pulse and thus avoid a total collapse of the system. Despite the political shudder that usually reigns in this house, no one here, no one, then argued about the fairness and relevance of such a measure. Well, my group believes that the challenge faced by the municipal structures of the State has certainly not been less than that faced by the autonomous and central structures. In many ways we even believe that they have been up to more. Let us also add to the legitimate frustration that has generated in many mayors and councillors of this country this whole traumatic episode. It is not the same to attend the drama of so many families from a Madrid office that from a municipal consistory of our geography, much more so when above all the lords of the capital forbid you to touch resources from your own municipality to attend to this emergency. Well, even without those resources, over the last few months many municipalities in Spain of very different colors, by the way, have exercised real firefighters. I'm sure they've literally saved lives and avoided even greater catastrophes. In the health sector, many municipalities have expanded cleaning and disinfection services, strengthened home support services for dependents, bought and distributed health materials among their neighbours and neighbours, but not only in this area, but also in education. They have been involved in the development of schools, have strengthened staff, have implemented reinforcement measures for the provision of school menus, have distributed teaching materials for children of different ages in order to enable pupils who do not have access to new technologies to continue their learning process. And if that were not enough, many of these municipalities have strengthened transport services, increased aid for food, supplies and rental of vulnerable people, expanded the staffing of social services, launched subsidies for self-employed people and SMEs, helped the hospitality industry to adapt to the restrictions imposed by the pandemic. Finally, I have been able to study the municipal reaction a little and it is overwhelming to contemplate the effort that has been made. In Barcelona, of course, but also in Valencia, in Seville, in Ciudad Real, in Salamanca, in Manresa, in Lizarra, in so many municipalities of our country. The sum of all these factors finally led to an explosive situation between our municipalities, perhaps more explosive than the government had originally calculated. As you know, the royal decree we are discussing here includes an immediate mechanism for the mobilization of municipal remnants, in addition to a fund of four hundred million to transport and the de facto suspension of the expenditure rule, demands widely raised from the municipal level. However, a pyrrhic agreement - let's call it that, pyrrhic - within the FEMP ignited the alarms. On Tuesday last week Minister Montero appeared on the Finance Committee. With the exception of the usual mountainers, who walked as always to something else, most groups, including ours, then urged him to listen and move, it was understood that in the spirit of negotiation, of course he is. Well, no one can deny today that the minister did not listen, no one can deny today that the minister did not move. That is why, when I hear Mr de BNG say that the government has not moved, man!, Mr Rego, I understand that you find it insufficient and even that it may have been too late. It is a criticism that other groups have made and that I do not share, but it seems reasonable to me. Now, to say that it has not moved, in short, that is directly missing the truth. It was then requested that immediate and direct funds not linked to remnants be released to distribute according to the criteria that the FEMP itself had agreed to the onset of the crisis. In an effort that we sincerely believe on the part of the minister and her entire team, an approach was offered in this direction to be implemented during the process as a bill of this norm. We believe that the cold and insufficient response of this House today to this approach is bad news for all and for all, starting with the majority of fellow citizens, who wait and need the help of their municipalities to endure the pull. And of course it is also bad news for the government, but also for all those we bet to open a new stage of political understanding between Spains. That's why today only the agrarians, friends of the no, those of the mountain win. I would like to conclude, Madam Minister, by insisting on something that has been said here and that we too find it essential. We have always defended the repeal of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability, we have always thought that this repeal is fundamental, but today - today - it is urgent. And if this Government has the twofold task, the twofold challenge of responding to an urgent crisis and taking swift, agile measures to deal with it, it also has the challenge and responsibility to take on the long-term structural changes that this country needs and that also requires policy changes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u67	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u68	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, for this Social Communist government everything is political. From their totalitarian desire to legislate how we should behave in our home to taking control of our children, from the demonization of the industry to their claim that the Spaniards accept mass and uncontrolled immigration, virtually all their initiatives are aimed at culminating in a cultural reprogramming of Spain. It is a work of zapa that began with the ineffable ZP, which was consolidated in the years of power and not to want of Mr Rajoy and which is now revived with vigor in a kind of competition between the new PSOE and the old communism to see who invents a new microoffense or who invents a new genre before. But it happens that there are some things in life that do not lend so well to that ideological division among the Spaniards that you encourage so much. Moreover, most of the really important things in life are simply common sense and, as I say, they do not lend themselves to their much-desired confrontation of women against men, of homosexuals against heterosexuals, of lefts against rights, because common sense is above divisions. But even in these cases his Government is able to look for the worst possible angle at any debate, to take the worst possible position and to pretend that the others will follow him under the threat that, otherwise, his sore call to unity of the parties will be broken. Indeed, after the return of the summer, and after their endless holidays in the palaces of La Mareta in Lanzarote and Las Marismillas on the beaches of Huelva - something that is not explained by our European partners or many Spanish citizens, but which I applaud; you know that the longer you are on vacation, the better for Spain - after those long holidays, President Sánchez returned yesterday with all his ministers and again, after dividing the Spaniards for months, they took advantage to launch their new coral campaign. [[applause]] All the ministers yesterday repeated the same thing: unity, unity, unity. However, it turns out that the first royal decree-law that you bring to this House to validate in the new session, the first, comes to provoke precisely a historical confrontation, a confrontation of the General Administration of the State with the municipalities in rebellion for an unprecedented blackmail; a confrontation of the municipalities among themselves, causing the blush of socialist mayors who do not know where to get in; a confrontation with a great prejudiced one, who are the Spaniards, who see how the priorities of spending of the nearest Administration, which is the local administration, are subordinated - as so many other things in this House - to the ideological agenda of the Government that, as so many other things also, is tremendously far from reality. On 22 May, the municipalities represented in the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces agreed to transfer to the Government the urgency of having funds to carry out its activities and did so unanimously, without any exception. They did so in the most sensitive moments for the local government, which literally saw how the problems of the neighbors had no solution on the part of any other administration, and they did so under the firm conviction of the relevant role of the municipalities in the post-COVID care. It was certainly a necessity, but it was also a question of justice, and I know it because Abel Caballero, his president, underlined it, who in that first agreement said: We want to use those resources in their entirety because they are the savings of the citizens of each municipality and province and must be used in their field. Abel Caballero himself - socialist, by the way - came to defend him at the Congress of Deputies in the Commission for Reconstruction and, taking a step further in the moral strength of the municipalities, said that those who tightened the belt, those who did more with less, those who fulfilled for years with surplus, those who managed better, contributing around half a point of gross domestic product so that other institutions could meet the objectives, could not be deprived of their effort, that is, of the remnants generated by themselves. I admit that that surprised me, because for years I had not heard anything so sensible from a socialist's mouth in this house. I was so surprised that I warned him that the Socialist Party would end up giving him what I called an ear ring and, with a smile, looked at me and said, "I don't think, I don't think I get an ear ring." But his smile lasted very little because, in a matter of weeks, the sanchismo doubled and reversed the sensible proposal presented by the classical Socialist Party and poor Abel Knight signed - with gesture brought and very serious - exactly the opposite of what he had defended in this house, that is, the surrender of the remnants of treasury, asserting his own vote as president of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. Now the poor Mr. Knight only has to talk about the Christmas lighting of Vigo. No wonder, because it's the only thing you can do. [[Applauds]] With him, the socialist mayors were the only ones who accepted the Tragala, putting the interests of his party before the interests of the Spanish, and I have no doubt that they will end up paying him. And they accepted it again the next day when the loan repayment deadline was published in the BOE, much higher than previously agreed. This is a one-purpose operation, which is to do accounting engineering to whitewash the painful economic situation of a government that can no longer follow. To the municipalities with surplus treasury you are subjected to an unacceptable blackmail by removing the remnants and returning a part that you will have to spend on what you, the government, tell them. And those who have not accumulated surplus, directly stay out of that distribution of funds. Look, minister, it is very difficult to agree on so many parties in this House, I would say that it is almost unheard of, I do not think there are precedents, but in all of them and of course in VOX we have said no to the hardest blow they intend to attest to municipalism in these years of democracy. A coup that punishes, rather than reward, those who have performed exemplaryly during these years; that violates the principle of autonomy in the management of municipalities, enshrined in article 137 of the Constitution, and that once again resolves nothing. I'm done. Minister, your government is not just any government, it's the biggest and most wasteful government in the history of democracy, it's the one with the most ministers, it's the one with the most secretaries of state, it's the one with the most directors-general and the most advisors-toe, it's the one with the most public spending in history, it's the one with the highest level of public debt in history - which you're so proud of because you say you can go out to markets and finance yourself anytime -, it's the one that doesn't repair expenses and shoots aid to chiringuitos, friendly media and distributes subsidies. And this government, instead of tightening the belt - as the local administrations did in an exemplary way - removes the remnants from the city halls and makes them the umpteenth institution eroded and undermined by its government. You don't respect anything or anyone. With this royal decree-law give the point to the municipalities, to municipalism and to the culture of effort and responsibility. The municipalities join a long list of institutions that you have attacked, such as the CIS, Spanish Broadcasting, the Attorney General's Office, the AIReF, the CNI, Social Security and the countless institutions that have been degraded by a government willing to do anything in order to remain in power. As Vice President Calvo said, referring to the prestige of the institutions you lead: You cannot restore what has never existed. You're tearing up Spain from above, you're the worst government possible...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u69	Mr Espinosa must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u70	I thank you for your flexibility, as you have had with Podemos, Mr President. [[Applauds]] You are destroying Spain and that is why you have to leave as soon as possible, for the sake of Spain. In VOX, I hope that with the support of more Members who seem to want to do so today, of course, we will oppose this attack on municipalism and will demand it very soon with a motion of censure for which there are more and more reasons. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u71	Thank you. Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u72	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, governments and parliaments, we are obliged to decide, to decide against the clock how to deal not only with the global health pandemic but also with the economic and social effects that result from it. The Government chaired by Pedro Sánchez at each Council of Ministers approves solutions to the needs of this country. To each problem, a response with extraordinary and urgent measures that cannot be delayed. And in this context, this royal decree-law that we are debating is born, which contains a range of opportunities for the municipalities that this Parliament cannot and should not renounce. The minister has explained it perfectly, offering financial solutions to each and every one of them with which to meet with solvency the needs arising in these times of emergency. The ultimate objective, the joint action of the administrations so that no need remains unmet, so that no one is left behind, and what better way to achieve it than with a legitimate and democratic agreement with the representatives of the local governments and their highest representative body, which is the FEMP. An agreement that recognizes the municipalities as a key piece for economic recovery from proximity, from nearness. That is why the validation of this royal decree-law should be exempt from any doubt. Therefore, minister, our appreciation of the work done. [[Applauds]] It's complex, of course it's complex, we have 8131 municipalities with very different realities, as you know, but everyone has something in common, they have big mayors and mayors, councillors and councillors who leave their skin 24 hours a day for improving people's lives, and they can't wait another day to make the solutions offered by this decree-law come true. They can't wait. Wait for what? The needs are pressing them, they already need, today, with their vote in favour, the room for manoeuvre in the face of legislation inherited from 2012 and 2013 that encorresponds to them. And look, ladies and gentlemen, in August it was impossible to eliminate the regulatory corset, but to unravel it so that they could immediately dispose of their own resources which so far are not accessible to them. So far we have in our hands to meet their municipal demands, the possibility of validating those solutions, of making them come true now, and we cannot fail them, the socialists will certainly not do it. [[The lady]] I have listened to them, but the reality is this, and it is that municipalities of all political signs expect us to vote in favour today, because they ask the government to allow them to spend their surplus and to make the rule of spending more flexible, to give them guarantees, to give them security, demands included in the FEMP agreement. The FEMP is doing it. In addition, it agreed with the Government. The Government fulfils and includes it in its article 1, the possibility of reinvesting its entire 2019 surplus in financially sustainable investments. They have the solution today, make it possible, because the Government has already complied, put the solution on the table, it can already be reality. What do you have to wait for? Who do you have to send? [[Applauds]] What's more, they say they don't want the spending rule to apply. The second additional provision, ladies and gentlemen, is already a reality, it can come into force the day after the publication of this royal decree-law. Why do they derive their responsibility from that of the Government? The Government has complied, the municipalities have complied and are waiting for us to meet their demands, they are waiting for us all to vote yes today. So, what are you telling me? If it's not urgent, if you say it's not urgent today, why will it be Tuesday? It was urgent in August and it is urgent that we tell them yes today. But it also authorizes them exceptionally to use their 2019 surplus or remaining for 2020 overheads. But what are you telling me? Are you going to vote no? Are you going to vote against this? Are you going to make it impossible for the mayors, with whom you are so filled, to use the EUR 6 billion that the ministry is willing to deliver with this royal decree-law? Are you going to give up that the mayors can now meet their obligations to their neighbors and neighbors today? Look, all the demands of the municipalities, their mayors, their mayors are recognized in this royal decree-law. It also caters to municipalities with financial difficulties. It also collects a fund to address the public transport deficit. What are you going to do? Are you going to vote no to that public fund? They're just gonna do it today. They say, bring him back to the government. It's just that the government has already brought him in. Bring him here. We can't wait. People can't wait. We are in an emergency and you seem to be sitting there without taking on the responsibility that you have here today. Leave so much chatter. If you want to bet on municipalism, if you want to bet on your neighbors and neighbors, you vote yes today to validate the royal decree-law. [[Applauds]] It is true that constructive criticism is healthy, but it is that until the last moment we have been negotiating. What's more, we say, "Confirm everything that's good. Why cancel everything? If you do not agree with the solution given in order to be able to use the remnants, we can improve the solution in processing as a bill. But you're not in it. You've shown us you're not in that. You're not about to solve problems. You are not about to validate this royal decree-law to meet people's needs. What you say is: Uff, bring it tomorrow; tomorrow will be another day! But where have we gone? There's no excuse. Do not validate this decree-law clashs head-on with the defense of municipalism; it is irrational and involves mistreating citizens by turning you into no measures that favor citizens. Therefore, there is no excuse or alternative. [[Applauds]] I encourage groups to join a yes for responsibility and opportunity; a yes to facilitate investments, to mobilize savings, to help public transport, to help municipalities at financial risk; a yes - I conclude now, President - to meet the needs of each and every one of our neighbours, with real, feasible, useful, immediate solutions that are the result of dialogue and agreement, that improve what is agreed at parliamentary level, that enhance local autonomy and that give immediate answers - yes, immediate answers -; in short - I repeat - a yes to improve people's lives. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a great responsibility today. You can take this train or let it get away.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u73	Mrs. Blanquer, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u74	If you let him go, that will be your responsibility and you will have to report to each of your mayors. Today they will have to face their neighbors and neighbors. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u76	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the whole proposal for an organic law regulating euthanasia. Two amendments to the entire alternative text have been tabled to this proposal. In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, how enormous the arrogance of men is. How enormous is the arrogance of those who believe they have the authority to decide who lives and who dies. How enormous the arrogance of men who make laws that allow the destruction of life, as if what is legally allowed would turn out to be morally correct. You, gentlemen of the Government, want Members of this House to pass a law that sets out the requirements that must be met for a human being to be able to take another human being's life. That's, quite simply, what they're trying to do. They intend, with this law, to turn into a health care service what is nothing other than killing a person, as if killing him, by the fact of having his consent, did not continue to be killing him; as if having a justification for killing took away the importance of killing him, and as if killing someone else by order was not, in fact, a executioner. Because that's what, protected by the law, takes another's life by order, a executioner. And, you gentlemen of the government, with this law you are going to turn our doctors into executioners. You, ladies and gentlemen, want to introduce into our system the right to death; and you want to do so because you clearly bet on death rather than life; because you intend to liquidate the problem by liquidating the person. It's so hard and so cruel. And I'm so sorry to have to say it, I'm so sorry, but I have to do it; and I have to do it, because those of us who believe in the intrinsic dignity of the person and that life is the most precious good we have, we have a moral obligation to try to convince them to stop this madness. And I say that you bet clearly on death instead of life, because that's what you always do. They have done so with their abortion laws, in which they have not even wanted to consider that, equally, by giving resources and help to mothers who are in the terrible dilemma of having to abort, they would prevent them from doing so. They do so every day in health centres, where such progressive slogans of theirs are applied, to try to persuade women who are going to have children with some disability, with some malformation or with Down syndrome to abort. They have done so with our elders in the residences, in the toughest moments of the pandemic, who, in many cases, have preferred to sedate with morphine rather than take them to an ICU to try to save their lives. And they intend to do so now with people desperate for suffering, pain, loneliness, frustration and grief, who say they want to die simply because they want to stop suffering, they and their families. And instead of putting all the energy and all the resources so that you can stop suffering and want to live, you prefer to choose the easiest way, always the easiest way, and, by the way, the cheapest, as if life had a price. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to use euphemisms not to hurt sensibilities on such a serious issue as this, nor are we going to fall into unworthy emotional blackmail, which only does the suffering of people, to try to make us believe that what is actually black is white. We want to awaken their dormant consciences and, therefore, we are presenting an amendment to the whole with alternative text. Faced with his law of death, we come to propose a law of life, a law of life; a law that allows us to row together for a dignified death as part of that life, because faced with the reality of the suffering that occurs in the final stage of people's life because of the disease, what our group seeks is the support of the sick, the dignity and humanization of their situation and the support of their families and caregivers. Therefore, in the face of those who do not want to live because they suffer, our proposal will never be the easy way to provide them with death to end their suffering, but to give them all the support and resources necessary for them not to feel alone, so that they do not feel that they are a burden or that they stand in the way, so that they do not feel pain, so that they feel clothed and understood, because we know for sure that if they have all that they will not want to die, because no one really wants to die. What we do not want is to suffer; it is suffering that makes us desire death. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a reality that we have neglected a lot in recent years in the area of palliative care, that the availability and quality of these services are not being guaranteed, that there are not enough units and that specialized professionals are not being trained. The European Palliative Care Society recommends that there be two specialized services per 100,000 inhabitants, and we are at 0.6, at the same level as countries such as Romania and Latvia, and below countries such as Portugal and Bulgaria. In Spain, 225000 patients would need palliative care each year, but only 65000. How they will not despair these patients, ladies and gentlemen, how they will not despair if we let them face death suffering without resources and help. Ladies and gentlemen, our proposal involves ensuring comprehensive palliative care to prevent pain, to relieve it and any symptoms that disturb the sick. And for that, we need more palliative care units, with trained personnel and all the necessary means and resources. What we propose is to include palliative care in the curricula of the degrees related to the health sciences and a medical specialty in order to be able to have specialized and well-trained professionals who have a degree in palliative medicine that enables them. We propose the creation of sufficient and well-equipped palliative care units throughout the public system to universalize and guarantee this right to receive the necessary care in each autonomy, in every corner of Spain, without distinction. It cannot be that we are the only country in our environment in which there is no university medical specialization in palliative care and that of our forty-six medical faculties only ten are provided palliative care as a subject, when in countries such as France or Germany it is compulsory. [[Applauds]] We also want to guarantee with our alternative text the rights of accompaniment and the personal and family privacy of the sick who pass through this trance. Palliative care must be available in an individual room, in which the patient can have close to his or her family and emotional environment, or in his or her own home, if possible. And, of course, guarantee to those who express it spiritual assistance, because to die in peace many people need this accompaniment on their deathbed. Care and support for caregivers and patients' families is also essential; for them to be able to comfort and care for the patient they must have guaranteed support for dependence and access to paid work permits during accompaniment. If we help the companion, the caregiver, the patient will in turn feel much better because he/she will not have to worry about the added complications that his/her situation may cause his/her own. Nor can we, ladies and gentlemen, place such a heavy burden on the backs of our doctors and health professionals. We believe that it is essential that health services be respectful of medical ethics, because only good medical practice can ensure the balance between the patient's will to choose or reject treatment and the medical criterion. The patient must be able to choose freely the type of treatment he wishes to undergo and any medical action must have his consent. But the patient cannot impose on the doctor any decision contrary to his or her criteria. [[Applauds]] There is no way our doctors can decide that their patients will live or die. In this sense, the Government asserts that it has narrowly circumscribed the assumptions in which euthanasia can be asked, but, in the end, who decides?, who objects to what is incurable or serious?, who determines what is bearable or unbearable?, how can a human being objectivize what is so subjective? Ladies and gentlemen, a doctor is a person, a simple mortal, a qualified medicine, but a simple mortal; it is simply frightening the nature with which you speak in your law of what you call the provision of death aid and its two modalities: the direct administration of a substance by the competent staff or the prescription or supply to the patient so that it can be self-administered in the health centre or at his home to cause his own death. It's creepy. It is frightening how they explain that our health care providers will have to face the challenge of rectifying the fulfilment of the requirements, of assessing, granting or refusing and of accepting that a commission above them can amend their decision and transfer to another doctor the responsibility of giving reason to the patient who expresses his desire to die. It is frightening to see how during the whole process that you have devised overwhelms the possibility of repentance, causing a vital dilemma to fall on the health care providers and on the patients and their families that we find unbearable, something like being on a genuine death row full of requirements, reports, certifications, paperwork, resources and litigation that can be extended during months of distress. From now on, ladies and gentlemen, there will be objectors and doctors willing to take a lethal dose, two categories of doctors. And, at the height of euphemism, the patient killed by euthanasia will be considered to have died of natural death, when anyone knows that natural death occurs without having been caused by any kind of injury or foreign substance. Do you think that putting a lie of such caliber in a report will reassure the consciences of those involved in this madness? The legalization of euthanasia, ladies and gentlemen, definitely distorts the ethics of the medical profession. The doctors' task before was only to save lives; now, with this contribution of theirs, it will also be to destroy them. If we open this Pandora's box, ladies and gentlemen, remember it within a few years, the interpretation of the requirements will be increasingly lax, as is already happening in other countries, and we will end up reforming the law to accommodate the new demands of an increasingly selfish and perverse political class. Can you assure us that what is already happening here in the Netherlands and Belgium, where it has gone from euthanasia for exceptional cases of terminal or painful illness to euthanasia for chronic diseases, or even simply for depression and loneliness, is not going to happen here? Belgium increased from 234 cases in 2003 to 2300 in 2017, and specialized health centres already exist in the Netherlands, already talking about legalizing an end-of-life kit for home euthanasia and providing it without further questions to any older than seventy years. The Dutch Parliament already has in its hands a bill to defend the right of the elderly of seventy-five who, while healthy, consider that they have already lived long enough. It is terrible that, in the most vulnerable time of life, part of society and its political representatives insist on this path of solution and put the elderly before the dilemma of no longer being a burden, when what they should do is to carry proudly with them, because they have contributed a lot throughout their life and have much to contribute to the last of their days. No doubt, these laws, which seem so progressive to you, will generate anxiety in the elderly and unbearable social pressure, added to their aches and loneliness, which can push them to think that they should no longer live. It is overwhelming that we do this to our elders when what they deserve is to feel respected, valued, needy cared for and cared for. The fall of birth and the increase in life expectancy will bring in the coming decades an enormous mass of elderly people facing physical and mental decline, depression and loneliness, many without spouses, children or grandchildren who will help them in the final stretch, because protecting the family for a long time has ceased to be one of their priorities. [[Applauds]] This will irreparably create a terrible problem of sustainability of health spending and pensions that our elders will be aware of. You say that you seek to respect autonomy and absolute freedom of decision, discarding external pressure, but is it not enough external pressure to know a burden for the family and for the State? Ladies and gentlemen, people who commit suicide are also supposed to want to die, they too have the right to freedom and autonomy of their will and yet we draw up plans and allocate resources to prevent suicides. Today, by the way, we celebrate World Day for the Prevention of Suicide. Why is it different for you? Why? Don't the people who commit suicide suffer and that's why they take their lives? Should we allow them to do so, for the sake of their right to freedom and the autonomy of their will? No way, no way. It would be terrible to do that. So, what difference does it make to you? Is it because they're young and they deserve us to fight for them? Is it because older people don't deserve it because they're older? We believe that no right can degrade the right to life, whose dignity does not depend on its quality, because then we would be accepting that a life without quality is worthless. What kind of society is a society in which life is worthless? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u78	Mrs. Ruiz, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u79	I'm finishing up, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for us every life is a treasure that we must safeguard. Let us offer an alternative to death, let us get those who despair to live to the last second, let us put our effort into the difficult and not the easy. We are not going to give up, even understanding and respecting the enormous suffering of people who believe that euthanasia is the solution and that we would never judge. But we're not giving up, we can't give in to the evidence of what a tremendous aberration is for us. We believe that the life of the sufferer is worth as much as that of anyone, even more, and that is why we will continue to fight, even if it has to be alone, for every life, because we do think that no one should be left behind, anyone, as weak, fragile or small as it may be. Never. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Echaniz Salgado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group presented a few months ago the alternative to the Socialist Party's euthanasia, assisted suicide bill, a law guaranteeing and universalizing palliative care in our country; a genuine law of rights and guarantees of the dignity of the person before the final process of life. We also put forward a non-law proposal so that, in defense of patients, before ever discussing euthanasia in Spain, we could have a legal instrument to extend and to allow equality and equity in palliative treatment throughout the national territory. Because, ladies and gentlemen, can a country that has not solved palliative treatment and has not solved the problem of dependence on people who lack vital functional autonomy open the door to euthanasia? And the answer is no, you cannot, because there is a right, legitimate aspirations of hundreds of thousands of people, not just a few limited, exceptional and very media cases that you always use and that we defend today. What is really necessary in Spain is to legislate on the rights, on the guarantees that ensure the aspiration to die with dignity with adequate and advanced treatment of pain; the right to palliative sedation, even if this could imply a shortening of life; the right to receive personalized palliative care at home or in the place designated for personal and family privacy, or, if assistance is required, in an individual room in a hospital with the accompanying of family members and relatives; the right to regulated work permits for family members attending them; express access to the Dependence Act; the right to complete care information; the right to the minimum physical and mental suffering possible; the right to reject treatments that are not desired, as expressed in the document of advance wills or prior instructions, or the right for health professionals to support, training of excellence and to have all the necessary means for them to carry out this work with the highest quality. Ladies and gentlemen, the curious thing about this situation is that this was also the position of the Socialist Party until it slipped to the radical postulates of Podemos. This was the exact approach defended in the last legislature by his spokespersons, Fr Jesús María Fernández Díaz and Fr Gregorio Câmara Villar, on all occasions. You, members of the Socialist Party, voted every time against euthanasia just three years ago, with the same arguments or similar to those that are being put forward in this rostrum today. This was the approach that led them to agree, together with the other political groups, a proposal for a law that also reproduced the consensus opinion in the Health Commission and approved by the plenary on 20 December 2018, only twenty months ago, in this matter and that was not definitively approved by the advance call for elections by Don Pedro Sánchez; a law that you presented again in this House on 21 February last; a law that you withdrew last week, which defended the same approach and on whose frontispiece you wrote that it was the fruit of the intense work of the parliamentary groups and a majority agreement that can serve as a basis for a process in this legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an act of political contortionism, back in my sock, of 'if you don't like my principles, don't worry that I have others'. And why? Why does the Socialist Party abdicate its usual position? Why does he renounce his historical position and even withdraw that law to defend assisted suicide now? Why, if there is no social demand or is among the problems that citizens refer to when asked? Why, if in 97% of the countries of the world there is no such law and in the very few countries where the results exist they are very negative because they feed back the problem, because they relax legal guarantees and controls and increase the psychological and social pressure on the elderly and the sick? Why, ladies and gentlemen, if the Senate created a Study Commission a few years ago and said no? Why, ladies and gentlemen, if it seriously affects the doctor-patient relationship and the ethical integrity of healthcare professionals because it proposes to doctors not to save lives but to cause death? Why, ladies and gentlemen, if the defeat of the protection system means the failure of health, in the antipodes of the welfare state? Why is research on new therapies for serious diseases discouraged, why if they end up being the most vulnerable, the weakest, the most unprotected? Why if you have just rejected in Finland, after a calm, informed, deep and responsible debate? Why if in Australia it was passed and nine months later the law has been repealed, after a thorough study because the law has promoted what was precisely intended to avoid? Why if it has been prevented by dealing with it so inform all the agencies of the state, all the professional associations whose opinion for us and for Spanish society - I am sure - was vital on such a delicate issue? Why did they do it through the back door, ladies? How do you do that, ladies and gentlemen, when we are living a deeply painful moment, where tens of thousands of terminally ill and elderly people have lost their lives, in many cases sedated, and have done so in terrible solitude, without the company of their own? Many of your family members today, don't hesitate, will be listening to us right now. Where is the social sensitivity of the Socialist Party? Where's your empathy? Where's your solidarity? Because they do so, moreover, against the declaration and doctrine of the Supreme Court, which says that there is no right to die; against the Court of Human Rights; against the World Medical Association, which brings together more than 10 million doctors, who have rejected euthanasia after holding consultative conferences on all continents; against the General Council of Official Colleges of Doctors of Spain; against the scientific societies in this field; against the Spanish Committee on Bioethics; against the postulates of the UN; against patient associations; against the Spanish Society of Health Law. Why do you do it against everything, Socialist Party gentlemen? Why have you been abducted by the most radical of our society when you weren't there? Why do they abandon interest in the concrete good of hundreds of thousands of terminal patients? Ladies and gentlemen, today is World Day for the Prevention of Suicide, so today, better than ever, in the face of euthanasia and assisted suicide, palliative care. Because palliative care is an assistance modality that aims at the quality of life, the well-being of people who are already incurable, but also of their families; it involves physical, but also psychological, social and spiritual care according to the beliefs of each one; ultimately, care for the sick in a global and integral way and also for their families. Because care is still necessary when it cannot be cured, because the challenge is to care for the sick and their families, because from the postulates of assisted suicide one does not wonder why a person is suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, today's science has very effective means to lessen, even to eliminate physical and psychological suffering in the final process of human existence through multidisciplinary units of excellence to care for those terminally ill with dignity; units with doctors, psychologists, social workers, nursing graduates, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a genuine obscenity that a law of euthanasia is being debated in Spain without having previously resolved palliative care. The stagnation, even the decline in palliative care in Spain, puts our country at the tail of Europe, at 31 of the 51 European countries analysed in terms of services per capita. We are at the same level as Georgia or Moldova and with only 0.6% of specialized services per 100,000 inhabitants, far removed from international recommendations, according to the Atlas of Palliative Care in Europe 2019. Italy or Poland have twice as many specialized services, France has triple, England or Germany have four times as many. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in Spain - I repeat - with 230,000 people who die each year in need of palliative care, this is a benefit that we will need 50% of the population at the end of life. In the case of children in Spain, ladies and gentlemen, 85% need this assistance and do not receive it. Nor does Spain have a specialty, superspecialty or area of expertise in palliative care, such as most Western European countries, or systems developed to identify in primary care the need for palliative care, and it is among the few countries in Europe that does not have a law that guarantees and universalizes such care. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain 70% of pain units do not have advanced resources in palliative care. In Spain there is also a great variability in the organization and delivery of the specific palliative care that marks, which conditions the access of patients to this assistance, and this not only happens in some autonomous communities or in others, but also within the same autonomous communities and the same provinces, because there are huge differences, for example, depending on whether the person lives in the urban or rural environment. And this inequality, this discrimination in the approach of terminally ill people, ladies and gentlemen, which conditions the care that elderly people receive or in the final process of their lives, exacerbates their suffering and that of their families, so it is essential that a law such as the one we bring here, that builds an equitable, fair, homogeneous care model throughout the territory and that ensures that all patients receive the multidisciplinary and quality care that they need from the health system in coordination with primary care, with hospital services, with medium- and long-stay residential centres and, of course, also home care that guarantees effective equality and also in the pediatric field. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this is really about guaranteeing a dignified death to hundreds of thousands of patients who need it; that is, ladies and gentlemen, actually assisted death. For euthanasia is not assisted death; euthanasia is sought death. It is therefore essential to ensure that all people with advanced illness and their loved ones receive this care that they need for hundreds of thousands in our country and that they do not have it guaranteed, regardless of where they live. May it be a right, ladies and gentlemen, a social right, a health right, and not a privilege. Because where this type of medical care is guaranteed, candidates for assisted suicide virtually disappear; on the contrary, palliative care is abandoned in a euthanasia context. That is why we want, and we are going to ask, the best experts in the country to appear on the Commission in this matter, so that their opinion is not stolen so that the scientific evidence will guide the work of this Congress in such a delicate matter. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. This is the best option for all Spaniards - also of whom we are here - so that we can have a dignified death, a human and advanced solution in the face of suffering; a solution that dignifies human life, that also dignifies doctors, that dignifies caregivers and that dignifies our entire society, that gives legal and vital security in times of uncertainty, in times of difficulty, that gives confidence, tranquillity, strength in the final stage of life; a solution, ladies and gentlemen, that ultimately provides comprehensive and quality care to the sick and their families, a solution that allows support, help, love and companionship to terminal patients. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u82	Mr. Echaniz, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u83	I'm done, Madam President. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, today they have been covered with glory: they expropriate the savings of the municipalities and the lives of the Spaniards. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u84	Thank you, Mr. Echaniz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. It has called for the use of the turn against the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mrs Carcedo Roces.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Echaniz, for the good development of parliamentary coexistence, it would be good if you withdrew that last sentence, which seems to have remained so round but that it is intolerable in a democracy. [[Applauds]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum with a certain modesty, believe me that I do so with a certain modesty, because this is the third time that this debate has taken place and is repeated. This seems like a gypsy, we have to be constantly jumping obstacles, but there are many people, many Spanish citizens who are waiting for this law to be passed. And they're looking at us, they're looking at how we get lost in debates, debates and more debates. This is the third time. Meanwhile, thousands of Spanish citizens are suffering and are doing so against their will. Therefore, I am ashamed to be a part of this paripé in which we become entangled and entangled again. I said that this is the third time that this whole debate - although also with the consideration of repetition - that comes to this House and, of course, I have to tell you that this debate that we are having today specifically contains in itself three enormous contradictions that we were able to see with the intervention of the previous speakers. We are discussing amendments to the entire alternative text to a legislative initiative by a parliamentary group proposing a law for the regulation of euthanasia as a new right of citizenship. Well, what is presented to us as an alternative text contains in itself three contradictions. The first is that, in the face of a law of euthanasia that regulates a new right, there comes a law that has nothing to do with it and there is the paradox that those of us who defend a law of palliative care, the implementation of palliative care in our country, it turns out that we have to express ourselves here against it because that is not the object of debate, The object of debate is not a law of palliative care. And, gentlemen of the People's Party above all, if such supporters were to have this law passed, it could be in force today, it could be in force if they had not been entangled in the Senate and had not prevented the law from going directly to the State Official Gazette. That is the reality for those of us who have defended the palliative care law on several occasions, for those who have implemented the strategy, and I am not going to go into the field of what each autonomous community has done with the skills it has. [[applause]] Then there are the cuts to the National Health System, because for all that it defends, resources are needed. What is the purpose of each autonomous community? In the country, information was provided yesterday on what each Autonomous Community devoted to health care. Let's go over it and see what the consequences are. That is the real debate. Because he knows very well, when he brings here this cynical debate, which brings nothing new, that palliative care is in the common portfolio of services of the National Health System since 2006 and there is a palliative care strategy since 2010 and there is also a Patient Autonomy Act since 2002. That law does not bring anything new, no new rights, and it does order and regulate how to do so, especially in the private sphere, because in the public it is guaranteed by the existing legislation. Therefore, let us not confuse the debate and let us not enter this debate into a paradox. The second paradox to which this law leads us is that - I literally read your explanatory statement -: The prolongation of life should not be considered a better good than the patient's right to dispose of his or her last days according to his or her beliefs. That's what he says in his explanatory statement. And I wonder about this right of patients: who limits the days, who limits them? You say, no, the last few days. Yes, but that suffering that lasts a few days, for patients with chronic diseases, whose death is not imminent, is many days, one over another, week over week, month over month and year over year. Why this discrimination? Why is that value, which is actually a value of society, only applied when you are interested in it and not when the person decides it? I wonder why it is so hard for the right to admit a new right. I told them in the previous debate that when this law is in force they will apply it. They will apply it, surely, as they did with all the rights that we have been achieving in our society, to their regret. [[Applauds]] I wonder: Why is it so hard for the right to empathize with people's pain and the values and ideology of others? Why does it cost you so much? Here I tell you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, no. We don't like to get our hands on other people's lives, no. What we want is to regulate quality and effective public rights, rights and services, with public resources, so that they can be effective for the entire population. [[Applauds]] Universality and equity, that's what we want; don't falter. There is a third contradiction which also appears in your explanatory statement and which is part of today's debate. They say - literally - that the decision of the person must prevail according to their values and beliefs, but it turns out that, as this must prevail instead of the values of other people involved in the process, this is true when you want it and not when the person decides. They will have to really explain this contradiction. In the case of VOX they are clearer. They say it has to be a balance between the values of the doctor, the decision of the healthcare staff and the patient. They're more honest in their text. Here, too, one wonders why the right is so incapable of understanding, understanding and respecting the values of other people who have other ideological considerations of the value of life and death, of their capacity for suffering; ultimately, respect for their values and their conscience. Why are they so incapacitated? Why does it cost you so much? Let me remind you at this point that what citizens think, their values, you do not decide either us or anyone, but each one, and that is measured in science by surveys, and the surveys we have so far say that the acceptance of euthanasia is increasing. There has been a 30-point increase in the last 40 years in relation to people who support euthanasia and it is cross-cutting, of all ideologies. It is true that, according to ideology, it varies. Practising believers account for 56% and non-believers for 97%, but most of them feel that euthanasia should be regulated, and to the scientific societies and professional colleges that have asked, we know the results of the surveys. Therefore, let us not be arrogant as representatives of the whole citizenry. I would like to read to you - I will do so - the final text of a documentary which, as you say, should not have been made in a democratic country like ours and which was the subject of several international awards and recognitions. It is called The Promise and is made by a son of Maribel Tellaetxe. He ends by saying: In this country contracting a terminal degenerative disease seems to be a crime. The condemnation they impose on you is a cruel and painful end, devoid of all dignity and integrity. The end you never wanted to live. Your pain and suffering is a currency of change among those who should legislate to mitigate it. I'm sorry, macho. This is the end of the documentary and that is the mandate we have of citizenship, that is the sensitivity we have to have and, of course, I refuse to admit that this law favours that people are not treated, that people are not treated or that health services do not have the necessary means and, above all, that we consider ourselves gods to play with life and death. With that line of argument, doctors are gods, the health professionals we save many lives every day. We intervened in that process of life and death. Obviously, the normal physiological process would greatly shorten life expectancy and doctors are intervening. Are we gods? Well, I don't know, I don't know what we are; every believer, every person who values him as he pleases. But, of course, we have to be sensitive to what our citizens think, we have to be sensitive to the pain that many people are suffering and we have to be sensitive to what most polls tell us. We must not approach this issue with prejudices and, above all, with ideological a prioriisms that will condition the decision of this House. As I hope this amendment to the whole will be overtaken, please, I beg you not to continue to obstruct the Palliative Care Act - which, by the way, we have withdrawn for some improvement, but I refer to my previous words - or the law of euthanasia. It is a new right; please let each citizen use it if he or she wishes, if not, to continue his or her suffering, but it is a right that this Parliament must grant to the citizenry. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carcedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. García. Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, this is the third time and all that is needed. We cannot bring a law of euthanasia because we completely reject euthanasia because, moreover, we believe that the right to die is a right that you have invented, it is not a right that exists. [[Applauds]] It is surprising that you tell us that science is based on surveys. Science is not based on surveys. It seems a lie that you, who are a doctor, tell us something like that. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of life and death. You choose death and we choose life. You choose the easy path and we choose the difficult path. You use suffering by giving concrete examples with names and surnames and obviating the thousands of deaths we could avoid by investing money in life instead of death. We would never judge people who make decisions from suffering and despair, what we want is to avoid the suffering and despair that leads them to make these decisions and to want to die. [[Applauds]] We don't understand that you have our bad position. What's wrong with that? Why does it bother you so much that we want to avoid a death, that we want to exalt life? Why do you use viscera instead of consciousness, heart and head? Why don't you want to fight for every life? Why don't you want to give those who suffer a chance? And if you don't want to, why don't you let us do it to the others? Why do you think a qualityless life is worth less than a qualityless life? We're talking about killing people, ladies and gentlemen, killing people. What's wrong with wanting to avoid it, wanting to put all the means in place to try to avoid it? What do you not like about our proposal? Why do unborn children get stunned when they have disabilities or Down syndrome? Why do dependent elders get in the way of them? Why do people with end-of-life diseases get in the way of them? [[Applauds]] That's what I want, what we want you to answer. What kind of society do you want? Do you want a society in which life is the most precious good or do you want a society in which life is only worth what you have, what you are? Don't you really think that we should try everything to avoid a single death, everything that isn't worth looking for other options, any options? Really, ladies and gentlemen, what's wrong with this group trying and trying to save all possible lives? There are millions of Spaniards, you refer to the support that this law has, there are millions of Spaniards who do not understand this position of theirs, as we do. We have an obligation to defend them, to give them a voice and to represent all those Spaniards who think like us. [[Applauds]] We don't care, ladies, what they tell us, what they call us. We know that you are wrong, that this law of yours is a tragedy for our society and we have an obligation to tell you and propose an alternative, and that, that is only what we are doing, we are giving you a chance to stop this madness, we are asking you to forget your prejudices and to do the right thing. Do not listen to your viscera, listen to your conscience, and go up with us to the chariot of life. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ruiz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Echaniz Salgado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, human life always enjoys dignity and value, regardless of its quality. Human rights, Mrs Carcedo, are not granted by the number of votes or by surveys, believe me, or by society, nor are they based on social consensus, because they are pre-political. Human rights, Your Honor, each person possesses them for being a person. A parliamentary vote does not change the reality of man or his dignity, because it is intrinsic and independent of all his vital situation and of the avatars as well, historical, political and social. Dignity is in the unconditional status of the human being, everyone has his dignity because he is unique and cannot be replaced by anything or anyone. Dignity cannot be questioned, it is the very essence of the human being; every human being is worthy, regardless of his state, young or old, sick or healthy, disabled or autonomous, conscious or unconscious. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish Association against Cancer documents that there are currently 30,000 cancer patients in Spain over sixty-five years old who live alone, who are fragile, who have lost their partner, who feel fatigue, who feel apathy, but that their best option cannot be to die because today we have more alternatives than ever. The right thing, which means progress in a society, the human thing is to take care of them. To put an end to the helpless sick is precisely the reactionary. If we share a vision of life where we accept the existence of human lives that - depending on their evolution, their development or their end - are less worthy and will not deserve to be protected, Spanish society will ultimately not be worth it. Mrs Carcedo, we have not been told why the Socialist Party has changed its view in recent years. I would ask you to take advantage of a second round in this House to explain it to all the Spaniards. He complains that we have discussed this law three times; you, who have stolen all the reports, all the appearances and all the studies that could have given light to this very important law, this very delicate law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, today we are defending a law which, in the face of euthanasia, captures the majority feeling of the Spaniards and of the healthcare professionals, also of the patients through their actions. A norm to create a national framework to guarantee the dignity of the person at the end of his life, a regulation to have full nationwide and also similar conditions and guarantees of care. It is difficult for a terminally ill person to choose between two options if one does not exist, as is now the case, the most just, the most ethical, the most humane option. It is a genuine irresponsibility, ladies and gentlemen, to address euthanasia without having resolved palliative care in Spain before. The care that a people gives to their patients at the end of their lives with the resources available is an exponent of their degree of civilization. Ladies and gentlemen, when a person is in a situation of serious illness and asks for death it is because everything else has failed and, therefore, it is a failure of the whole system that has not been able to care for him as he deserves. A patient who is at the end of his life suffers from total pain, because he not only suffers from the body, but is also in the process of emotional pain, social pain, spiritual pain. Faced with this reality, we cannot choose to remove the pain by eliminating the person, but what we have to do is take care of all the dimensions of his suffering. However, if euthanasia is legalized, the situation of the sick will no longer be the normal and natural consequence of fragility or fragile human condition. Euthanasia certifies the most extreme loneliness for the patient, almost always full of depression, lack of fullness of mental faculties. Ladies and gentlemen, a good standard of palliative care is an appropriate solution that does not attempt to deliberately precipitate death or unnecessarily prolong life. A solution that means legislating on how to alleviate the suffering of the person without having to eliminate the sufferer, because in palliative sedation the goal is not to end the patient, but the suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, euthanasia, assisted suicide, is a defeat for all. The answer to which we are called is never to abandon those who suffer, not to surrender, to give companionship, comfort, love, hope and quality care. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, my group calls for the adoption of this law, which seeks to extend universal access for all patients to palliative care that guarantees the conditions for a dignified death to all terminally ill, because that, ladies and gentlemen, is the ethical and socially just thing. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Echaniz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. I give the floor to Mrs. Carcedo Roces.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Ruiz, there are more sciences than medical science, such as engineering or social science. Of course, I am not surprised that you do not know that social science exists, but it exists, and it is very necessary. [[Applauds]] We remain confused in the debate. Do not forget that today is the debate on the amendment of the whole of the law of euthanasia. We are not talking about the Palliative Care Act, with which this group does not disagree. Of course, we consider it necessary to the extent that it regulates very specifically a right that exists and that, if there is will, it can be implemented in all the autonomous communities, but of course it cannot be implemented with cuts in health and dependence. After 6 billion dependency cuts that come here to say that this is resolved by improving attention to dependency...! They really respect the intelligence of the rest of the Members. [[Applauds]] You are a doctor like me and we know how to distinguish between what is the final stage of life, the diseases that are leading to an imminent death, among which there are some cancers, although there are cancers that are not, and another kind of diseases that are invalidating and chronic. We are talking about people who are thirty years in this situation of suffering. We are talking about people who see that they deteriorate day by day, who see that they are going to deteriorate, not in thirty years, but in a year or two, without any expectation. Those people are what we're talking about. Let us not mix the debates. This parliamentary group does not have lessons in respect for human rights, please. We know what human rights are. You say what human rights have to be. Human rights are that, rights, and what we are talking about here specifically in this debate today is to order and regulate a new right for Spanish legislation, for our framework of coexistence and for people who believe that their physical and moral integrity, dignity, privacy, freedom, conscience are altered and cannot be satisfied. That's what we're talking about, a new human right. Life is defended not only from the health system, but also from the fight against global warming, which is causing a lot of disease, a lot of deaths, among them something has to see the appearance of the coronavirus, for example. I am not going to go into the issue of residences, because it simply seems obscene to me; nor am I going to compare it by autonomous communities. Defending life means a national health system of quality, universal - which we have had to recover -, a system with equity and quality. That is what we are talking about, in addition to the education system, and so on, because not only health and life depend on health, but on many other determinants of our model of coexistence, among others, a more egalitarian society. I ask the gentlemen of VOX, if that is what they are defending, to support minimum living income and not to remain outside the rest of the parliamentary forces. I therefore ask you to stop perverting the debates. I insist that today we are debating a new right for Spanish legislation and for Spanish citizens. Anyone who wants to use that right, because he considers that his situation is unbearable, should use it. The legislators have a duty to respect their values of life and death, their ideology, their conscience. All that we have a duty to respect. Whether he or she decides. That's what we're talking about. We're not talking about palliative care or taking care of life. Neither to care for life nor specifically for palliative care is this parliamentary group willing to receive any lessons, especially from those who opposed every step we took, every step forward in the rights of our society, especially in preserving the universality, equity and quality of our National Health System, which is where palliative care fits in. Let us not confuse the last days of life, end-of-life diseases in the midst of imminent death, with what euthanasia claims. I do not want to leave this rostrum without reminding you that the doctors who fought and fought, precisely, for palliative care, sedation at the end of life, which collects its law, suffered persecution of all kinds, insults and even judicial complaints, and we have to remember that. And I also want to remind here the people who fought and who continue to struggle to have this new right, their families, who continue to persevere and continue in ongoing campaigns so that the collective conscience knows what is going on and what is suffering people who, unfortunately, are affected by this type of disease. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Carcedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause]] He is not in the Chamber, so Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u93	Thank you, President. It has not been so many months since we first discussed this proposal for a law and, therefore, our intervention will not be very different either. But it is worth remembering some things that we wanted to highlight at that time. The first is a recognition of all the people who, with their civil disobedience, fought to put euthanasia on the political agenda and earn it as a right, from Ramon Sampedro to María José Carrasco and Ángel Hernández, a recognition of all of them and them and a practical demonstration that civil disobedience serves that purpose, to transform mentalities, to put the view on real problems and to open political horizons. [[applause]] Secondly, thanks also to the entities that, for many years, particularly in Catalonia, Associated by Dret to Morir Dignament, have been fighting to place this problem and this right on the political agenda, and that have made a pioneering law in Catalonia as early as the year 2000. I would also like to remind you that many of these entities are primarily motivated by women, since the struggle for a dignified death is a consequence of putting life at the centre, which is the policy that feminism has always been defending. They are entities - let us not forget - that support the law but consider it to be minimal, and that work to improve above all in the aspects of prior control, so that what is called guarantees do not become, in the background, an added calvary for the person who wants to put an end to their suffering, and that also those people who, clearly and objectively, are suffering pain and, however, for these guarantees want to be left out. Finally, I would also like to recall an issue that we have already said at the time and which is part of this battle on the defence of the law. Decriminalizing does not mean forcing anyone, and this is what we are talking about today. The alternative to not regulating euthanasia means the continuation of clandestine channels; they will continue to be given. In the same way as the day this law is passed, there will be people who do not accept it, following the same moral precepts that lead you to submit an amendment to the whole - in the same way, I say - today, if it is not approved, these clandestine routes will continue to be given, with the added problems that involve, at the level of repression, these clandestine routes. I believe that you know this and, however, what you do is, through these amendments to the whole, try to pressure, try to condition the PSOE so that its proposal for a law becomes more decaffeinated. I hope that this is not the case and that it is a law that addresses the decades-long struggle of entities that have been defending the right to a dignified death. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. I'm sorry, because I had a little incident, which didn't mean any trouble. We, as we said at the time, will support this law. And we are going to do so because it seems to us that just as it is very respectable that there are people who consider it an intimate and fully legitimate decision not to resort to such procedures, there are people who do have the right to be satisfied with their decision to have access to a dignified death, with all guarantees. This is one of those issues that resolves some of the issues that arise on a day-to-day basis. I am a doctor and I am used - I was, when I was exercising - to see how many times very difficult decisions of this type are trying to impute to medical professionals, or how certain families, some well-intentionedly and others maliciously, try to influence the professionals to make a decision that is not theirs. The decision has to be made by the person concerned and has to be made with all guarantees, and I believe that this law absolutely guarantees that whoever wants to access that right will have access to it, and yet those who feel that this is not what needs to be done, because it affects their deepest beliefs, will not be forced by anyone to have access to that right. So it seems to me that this fills a legal gap in the Spanish State and, therefore, New Canarias will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u96	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u97	Good morning, Madam President. Mr. Echaniz, when you were talking I remembered a conversation with a acquaintance of mine who has a major degenerative disease. This was more or less a year ago, he still lives, and it was a week after he had the assurance that he would be able to end his life when he wanted and the way he wanted. This person, cared for by palliative care, said to me: Iñaki, since I have had the assurance that I will be able to decide when and how, I have felt great relief, even the palliative care I have to take out the pain seems to have more effect on me. His anxiety was reduced in a great way, and I've lived it directly, so it came to my head. It is not a contradictory thing, palliative care and the right to choose to die are not opposed at all. What you are doing here today with these initiatives that you bring us is to counter them totally, as if they were totally disjunctive, although I think you know in the background that they are neither disjunctive nor contradictory. You're doing it again, it's an attempt to stop the citizenry from gaining access to this right. We are again faced with an attempt to create obstacles. How many times have we heard about the slippery slope, about the law of death in front of the law of life, that there is no social demand to justify it, that this is to promote suicide. By the way, you can access Swiss statistics, for example, and you will see how the number of suicides has been reduced following the implantation of euthanasia, because it precisely allows you to detect the demand for suicides, which, if not, is a totally hidden demand and to which it is impossible to reach. You, the VOX and Popular groups, all you want to introduce us is a false dilemma, but in reality what you have is fear of freedom of decision, that citizenship can freely decide for us and for us about our future. In addition, you are doing a weak favor to the religion you claim to be defending, because with this performance what you are doing is that citizenship identifies that dominant religion with an attempt to impose rules of life that are not shared. If anyone wants to impose euthanasia! If it is a right that can be freely accessed! A good death is fundamental and there are many paths. At the end of a funeral where we are saying goodbye to someone many times, not always, it is said that she has had a good death, and usually comes accompanied by statements like: she has not suffered, she has not had pains, it has been as she has wanted. With expressions of this kind we have come to define what good death is, and one of the fundamental themes is: it has been as she has wanted, it has been accompanied by her own. And as a counterpart to good death we have bad death and, unfortunately, the wave of the COVID has made very clear what is bad death: serious patients without companions, elderly in residences, lack of specialized personnel. That's real. Palliative care is currently lacking in development. So, what needs to be done is to boost these palliative care, and where you govern you can and should do so. What has happened in recent years? They have not, and now they come with these amendments. This law is not necessary to develop such palliative care, it is necessary to comply with what is requested. When a lucid person repeatedly asks that he wants to stop living and has assurances that he is doing so freely, he must be allowed to do so and the person who helps him cannot be punished, in an act of love and solidarity, because at that time what is being done is to condemn, at that time what is being done is to pursue many people for having done an act of love. Then I want to correct this project that has been presented to us. When presenting and defending palliative care projects do not limit palliative care at the end of life. Palliative care must be applied whenever the patient or patient does not respond to medical treatment, and that does not mean that she is at the last moments of her life, that that is another of the fundamental issues in the development of palliative care. Palliative care should not be assimilated with the end of life. This is another fundamental issue for people to voluntarily access palliative care. Finally, I have mentioned before what good death is. Usually people who think about their death, do they know what they're asking us to do? They want to die according to their beliefs, they want to avoid fear, they want to avoid anguish, they want to face death in a conscious, peaceful way, and above all they think it is necessary to be able to consider and decide what and how the time should be when they want to die. That is why my group is going to vote against these two amendments which you have brought to us today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u98	Thank you, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Emotional discourses have a risk in the stands, and it seems that the one who gets the most excited is more right, the one who talks the most about dramatic situations, the one who talks the most about situations in which terms like life or death appear, etc. And I think that it does a lot of harm to any bill, be it of one kind or another, because it takes away legal rigour from it, and I think that precisely here our obligation as legislators is, from objectivity and necessity, to offer a public service; that is our obligation. The People's Party and VOX, on the alimon, tabled two amendments to the proposal for a law on euthanasia which the Socialist Group resubmitted after the new elections and after the constitution of the new House. And let me tell them they're wrong again, they want to confuse the citizenry again. I will certainly say things that have already been said and others will also say them, because today we are going to repeat ourselves a lot, quite, quite, because I believe that everyone's arguments are quite similar. I say that they are wrong again, and it will not be because again and again - and there are already three - it has not been clear what the majority feeling of this House and of society on this issue is. They get confused again because they want to get confused. It's not the same palliative care and euthanasia. It's not the same. But you already know that, the problem is that being two different things and both necessary want to respond with only one of them to two different problems. The Congress plenary held on October 25, 2018 rejected the amendment to the whole with alternative text submitted to that bill by the People's Parliamentary Group. An alternative text which is practically reproduced in those now presented by the aforementioned group and by VOX, and which on the above-mentioned occasion only had the support of its group and two Members of the Navarro People's Union and a Member of the Asturias Forum. On this occasion, and certainly responding in a somewhat more moderate manner to the position maintained by Mr Echaniz, spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group, in the debate on the consideration of this new proposal for a law, which took place on 11 February, the People's Parliamentary Group again presents the corresponding amendment to the whole with alternative text, that is, by avoiding the reference to the alleged motivating cause of this proposal for a law: aware in the search for financial savings of the costs of longevity and of the expensive palliative treatments health. That's what you said, Mr. Echaniz. You won't deny that it was pretty bad on your part. Today he has changed his speech, tone and approach on the part of his group. They have done so with abortion, and they have done so with a number of other issues, and they are increasingly focusing their speech on something more logical, as is normal, regardless of the position they maintain. Nothing had to do with his approach the first time, the second and now the third. Good. In any case, both alternative texts coincidentally propose the replacement of euthanasia medical practice by the development of palliative care, an approach that determines the denial of the possibility of citizens exercising the right to dignified death, as both systems are considered incompatible. The Sociosanitary Commission of Ethics Committees of Euskadi considers morally acceptable the decriminalization and legislative regulation of euthanasia and assisted medical suicide under certain circumstances and conditions, provided the clinical and legal safety of patients and professionals is guaranteed. Mr. Echaniz, you can't say suddenly, without releasing data, that all medical professionals, all medical schools, all associations... I don't know where you get that data. I can show you the letter addressed to me by the president of the Bizkaia College of Physicians, for example, fixing the position of that school. Therefore, you cannot suddenly speak on behalf of all when it is not so. The same way I can't either. Or say it about the doctors in Madrid, which you also know. This report, as I said, also expresses that it does not share the assertion that quality and accessible palliative care services for the entire population would make the practice of euthanasia and assisted medical suicide unnecessary. I repeat, that quality palliative care services would not make euthanasia unnecessary, because they are two different things, because they respond to two different needs. Indeed, one does not replace the other, they are two different questions and the answers are different. That is, contrary to the reasoning of the amending groups, we consider that the regulation of euthanasia and the provision of palliative care are not at all incompatible. The regulation of euthanasia contained in this proposal does not impose its exercise, at all, since it is a personal decision of the citizens, according to the guarantees envisaged. On the other hand, the pretence of the amending groups determines the radical denial of the exercise of such a right, according to the imposition of a certain ideological and vital position, which may doubtless not be shared by the whole of the citizenry. A VOX deputy yesterday reported that she intended to enter their homes by preventing freedom and deciding how to live. For you are wanting to impose how to die, and above all preventing the maximum exercise of freedom: that of giving the legal opportunity of those who think differently and who, living suffering, cannot live nor can die. Let us not make false interpretations and let us even less fall into frivolities as if we were trying to pass a law of freedom of murder. Are you aware of the barbarities you have said about this issue not only today, but today and other times? Because the perverse discourse they use, with the fallacy that here what is intended is to eliminate people, is politically unacceptable; it is inadmissible. As I said, alternative texts are alternatives to another law, to the Law on Palliative Care, which in addition you have developed quite poorly in your proposals, with legal loopholes, with competitive intrusions and little capacity to solve. It is of rather low quality the proposal you have put forward, even as a Palliative Care Act. Put it into practice - others have already said - wherever you govern; you have the possibility.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u100	Mr. Agirretxea, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u101	I'm done, Madam President. We're not going to fall into the trap that you're holding us up. Palliative care is necessary, it's a huge advance and it's an immense relief for sick people and families, but that's another issue. I therefore conclude - we must show our position against the adoption of these amendments, not because of their content - which is nothing new in the framework of health legislation and which we have already developed for a long time - but because of their claim to eliminate the possibility of citizens exercising their right to a dignified death, within a law that is guaranteed and respectful of human dignity, and in accordance with legislation that is being developed peacefully in other socially and politically advanced countries. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u102	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. [[Mr. Echaniz Salgado asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr. Echaniz?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. By allusions I wanted to use a shift.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u104	I don't think there's been any offensive allusion.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u105	Yes, you can check it in the Journal of Sessions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u106	There has, of course, been contradiction, but the usual contradiction in a debate, Mr Echaniz. I'm not giving you the floor. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Echániz Salgado: Mr. Agirretxea said that it was wrong on my part some argument]] We will review the Journal of Sessions, but of course the Presidency has not heard the qualification of ruin towards its person. Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u107	Thank you, President. Good afternoon - almost already - ladies and gentlemen. It has rained a lot since I last came up to this rostrum to talk about the euthanasia debate. By the way we have had an unprecedented pandemic that has taken the lives of more than 50,000 Spaniards. We have been immersed in an unprecedented crisis, from the social as well as the economic and health spheres, but I believe that in these months many of us - like millions of Spaniards - have suffered the misfortune of having to deal with the pain or suffering of someone we love. Today, ladies and gentlemen - as I said several months ago - I am beginning this speech again by saying that a parliament in a democracy like ours deserves a calm, realistic and honest debate of euthanasia. Do not expect citizens to have a heated debate or an ideological debate, but they do expect arguments to stand up for a subject that speaks of rights and freedoms, because yes, that is what we are talking about today in this Chamber. That is why I am telling you that we are going to be against it, that we will not support the amendments as a whole, because the Spaniards - as I say - deserve a serious and calm debate on this matter, and in Citizens we are going to give it to them. We have to go in and discuss this law, we have to improve it. For what? To ensure that all people with an irreversible disease have all the information, they have the right environment, professional assistance and the ability to decide about their lives. From Citizens, moreover, we will approach this matter very rigorously. As we said in the discussion, various constitutional rights must be respected: the fundamental right to life, the right to liberty and the right to dignity of persons. In addition, we must also not forget the guarantees that health professionals must have. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are addressing an issue of individual freedom. Today we must remember that we all have the right to a dignified life, but we also have the right to leave this life with the same freedom and dignity. From the point of view of freedom it cannot be otherwise. Since it is a matter of freedoms, we must address it outside the ideological trenches. Unfortunately, people of all ideologies who vote for all political parties at some point in their lives will face up to deciding how they want it to end. We have already stated, in this Chamber, in cases such as that of Ramón San Pedro or that of María José Carrasco, that they have shown us the consequences of this state not having advanced and guaranteeing legislation, with which we have two options, ladies and gentlemen, or giving freedom or continuing to generate situations as dramatic as the ones set out above. From Citizens we want to have a broad and realistic view. We believe in a regulation that can address a reality of those who are faced with one of the most transcendental decisions that can exist, which is to decide about their own life. We want a humanist, rigorous and consensus-based law that guarantees the rights of all people and quality assistance until the last moment of their days. No one should die in pain, no one can impose unnecessary suffering. And we are also concerned about the most vulnerable, because no one should make such a decision, conditioned by their loneliness, their socio-economic level or the lack of benefits of the system. Free choice is to have all the support necessary to be able to cope with the disease or disability. Therefore, we are talking about a question of humanity, an issue that will perfectly understand anyone who has had patients in a situation like the one we are dealing with today. If a person is in an irreversible situation, he or she has the right to be protected by the State with a guaranteed regulation that has a medical endorsement. I believe that, as we have been seeing, this debate has been raised in a wrong way since a false disjunctive, that of contrasting euthanasia with the result of the lack of guaranteed and quality palliative care. But it is not true, ladies and gentlemen; when a person is unfortunately faced with a serious, incurable and irreversible disease, it is so worthy to want to continue living as to decide not to want to continue with that suffering. We must guarantee both, the right to a dignified death and palliative care. In Citizens we were the first to carry the law in the previous legislature to guarantee the rights and dignity of people in the final process of life. We've re-recorded it. Therefore, ensuring palliative care is essential, but to pretend that this measure nullifies the debate that we have on the table today is to leave unanswered the situations of so many people who, in our country and throughout the world, do not want to continue living in an irreversible condition. There are people who in their freedom do not want palliative care, but to end their suffering. Alongside this, we must address this issue with a prism of equality. The reality of Spain today is that a patient in Murcia or in the Basque Country does not choose the same, because their conditions are different. It is such a sensitive issue that legislation like this must guarantee the equality of all Spaniards, equality in rights and equal treatment, live where they live. We want a guaranteed national law, which gives an answer to all Spaniards. The lack of guarantees cannot come from a hasty law or from a series of autonomous proposals, which in the end generate in such a sensitive subject is the creation of inequalities. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you today, before we vote, to face this vote, aware that every mature democracy deserves an adult debate on matters that, as adults we are, we know are devastating to many people. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u109	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ruiz, Mr Echaniz, if my memory does not fail, it is the fourth time that I have a debate like this in this House, we with our arguments and you with yours, and we have not moved a single millimeter. There was only one novelty today for which I wanted to congratulate you and which blamed the low attendance in the House, which was the good tone in which this debate had been held, until Mr Echaniz accused us of wanting to expropriate lives. That seemed more than reprehensible to me. Ladies and gentlemen, you continue to build your legitimate point of view on the basis of two criteria. The first is that they are dedicated to confronting this law, which has been under discussion in this House for some time now, with palliative cures, as if they were things that could not be combined, as if the two boards did not improve the health system and the quality of life of the citizens of this country. I think that is the first calculation that you have used on purpose to wear out and dynamite any possibility that this law is a reality. The second concept that you use is that of the right to life and that of a dignified life, something that seems to me more than legitimate and that I share; what I do not share is the one who protects that right to life. That is the central point of the debate. From his interventions comes a legitimate position that is inspired by faith, which is more than legitimate. Their interventions breathe faith, and I celebrate it and, in fact, I will defend it here and where it is needed, and what I will not defend, and they will always find me at the front, is that they intend to impose their faith on the rest of the citizens. Mrs. Ruiz said: What problem do you have in saving lives? I have no problem in recognizing that palliative cures are to save lives and so that lives, when they are long, are better, that is why palliative cures are. The question is: What problem do you have with those people who decide that if you only have suffering in this life, you don't want to suffer anymore? That is the question I ask you to answer, because that is the debate. Who are we to tell someone what they have to suffer and what they have to endure until their life ends? Who are we to tell someone who is suffering what is a dignified life and living in dignity or what is not a dignified life? Mr Echaniz said, reproaching the Socialist Parliamentary Group for that phrase falsely attributed to Marx: If he does not like my principles I have others. I would say that what emerges from your intervention is that the message you give your citizens is not to worry about their principles that you already impose on them. That is bad news and a bad lesson for democracy in this country. I'm done with this, Madam President. Steven Pinker, in an argument about the Illustration, said: Religions sometimes clash with humanism if they intend to elevate their principle and moral good above the well-being of humans. That is a lesson we should learn, and the debate should focus on freedom, dignity and the moral precepts of each one - of each one; not of some, but of each one - so that we can advance this law. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor to Mr Rego Candaimil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u111	Thank you, Madam President. As you know, the BNG defends the need for a law that regulates euthanasia, which, unfortunately, has been waited too long, causing unnecessary suffering. I would like to recall that it was in Galicia that Ramón Sampedro fought the first great battle for this right, the first case that came to the Supreme Court, and also that the courageous people who helped him end his life in 1988 were prosecuted judicially. This must not happen again. It has been more than twenty years before we have been faced with a text which, in general, we consider correct, although we have tabled amendments to correct certain aspects, for example, so that the necessary precautions do not limit or impede that right and do not entail bureaucratic obstacles that prolong the process over time, because we do not agree with the possibility of conscientious objection or because we believe that this right should be guaranteed universally without excluding anyone. In any case, we categorically reject the amendments of those retrograde forces which do not concern themselves with guaranteeing dignified life and do not understand that dignified death is consistent with it; those forces which are always more interested in denying rights than in guaranteeing them and which know perfectly well - because they know - that palliative care and euthanasia are alternative or complementary rights to each other, but not substitutes. Both possibilities must be available to citizens. That is why we are going to contribute with our vote to a new right that is simply understood from humanity, from that humanity that seems clear that these reactionary parties who want to deny it are missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u112	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Finally, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u113	Thank you, Madam President. It is true that this is not the first time we have the debate, and every time we have it I am deepening my disconcertingness. You weren't liberals? The lords of the People's Party and VOX were not liberals and that had to do with defending individual freedom? Let me get this straight. You are liberal so that those who have the most do not pay the taxes they should, but, if it goes wrong, that the state rescues you; you are liberal to try to destroy the right to work, so that there are no collective agreements and the individual is very free to decide whether he works for 700 euros or goes off the street; you are liberal so that rents are not regulated, the law of speculators is imposed and the individual is free to go out on the street or have to move from the neighborhood if prices rise artificially, but when it comes to a person who only expects an indescribable pain for the rest of his days can decide whether to end his life, what then happens to individual freedom? And with the right to property? Or is it that one does not have the right to own one's own life? So what about liberal principles? Surely you will know the paradox of Schrödinger's cat. Well, you are something like Schrödinger's liberal: when something has to do with defending the privileges of a few are liberal, but when we come to defending individual freedom, there the liberals again get erased. Look, there's a fundamental difference between our approach and yours. Yours is not going to get ahead and ours is, but that's not the difference, there's a difference that's moral and that makes me say that ours has moral superiority over yours. This is for a reason; let me try to explain it to you in our short time. If you go ahead with your proposal, people could only die according to the values of a minority; if you go ahead - as you will - the proposal of democracy and the extension of rights, everyone will have the right to put an end to your life when you are suffering according to their own values, including your own voters if you need it someday. That is why freedom is higher, and that is why the vast majority of Spanish society is in favour of us moving forward in rights. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u114	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u115	Thank you, President. Life and death are two sides of the same coin, and from Esquerra Republicana we fight to ensure a life worthy of all people, regardless of their beliefs, age, sexual orientation, nationality or socio-economic conditions. We are Republicans and our goal is to ensure the material existence of the whole world. But remember what I just said: life and death are two sides of the same coin, they are inseparable and, therefore, securing a dignified life is also securing a worthy death. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about rights, specifically dignity, freedom and personal self-determination. It goes with dignity, because dying dignifiedly is a human right and, on the contrary, prolonging the life of a person whose suffering is unbearable and his incurable cause constitutes a violation of the right to dignity, the inalienable right of humanity. And it goes to freedom and personal self-determination. Euthanasia is not an imposition, it is a right; no one is obliged to exercise it and, instead, we are all obliged to respect its exercise. That's a right. Euthanasia is based on freedom and personal autonomy to decide about one's own life. Denying such personal self-determination can only arise from reactionary positions that regard life as a divine gift and that we cannot dispose of. With these amendments to the whole you show that you do not speak the language of human rights. You had the opportunity today to hold a serious debate on a subject as complex as euthanasia. Instead, they have chosen to instrumentalize people's suffering. You have been saying - in fact, you have said this in this House - that euthanasia responds to a policy of the left to shorten the lives of the elderly and thus save a few pensions, and that is simply disgusting. Republican Left is not going to fall to this level, to this exercise of intellectual misery that you are doing here today. We supported the regulation of euthanasia, we did it more than twenty-five years ago - I repeat, twenty-five years ago - when we first brought it to this House, and we do it today, even more so when studies tell us that 85% of Catalans and Catalans support this practice. And it is that in 2017 our health adviser, Alba Vergés, presented before this same House a proposal for a law, which came from the Parliament of Catalonia, decriminalizing euthanasia. That is why we will vote against the amendments tabled and we will actively participate, with our amendments in the joint text, in the work in the paper. Because this law is not going to create any right, it is going to recognize it, and because the right to dignified death, as we have already said, is a reflection of the right to dignity and there is no law or constitution or treaty that can change this conviction that dignity is an inalienable right of people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u116	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u117	Good afternoon now. The amendments to the whole presented by the right are not amendments to euthanasia, they are rules of palliative care, and as they want us to talk about palliatives, it is justice - I think - that today we remember the case of Dr. Montes and other colleagues of the Severo Ochoa hospital, accused of practicing palliatives for two anonymous complaints at the Board of Health of the PP of Madrid and that the PP decided to investigate creating a commission of inquiry and denouncing the court, in whose conclusions, later, the prosecutors described as strange the proceeding of the Board of Health of Madrid. [[applause]] In March 2005, the calvary and persecution for twelve doctors began, which did not end until 28 January 2008, when the Madrid Provincial Court ratified the dismissal and closed the case, ordering the deletion of any reference to the possible ill practice of the reported doctors. The defamatory campaign against Dr. Montes and his colleagues was led by Madrid's Health Advisor, Manuel Lamela, the executing arm of Esperanza Aguirre's project to privatize Madrid's health. Lamela got the palliatives interrupted in Madrid, and I believe that throughout Spain, because what happened to Dr. Montes was like a warning to sailors: anyone dared to practice the palliatives. That same Mr Lamela will now be the judicial brain of Madrid's entrepreneurs to claim compensation from the State for economic losses suffered by the pandemic and will charge 8% of the compensation he obtains in the courts, the same one whose contribution to the pandemic is to plead against the Ministry of Health so that the price of the PCRs cannot be limited. The PP and Mr. Lamela ruined the lives of twelve good people, twelve doctors, but at the same time turned them into heroes for the good people. We regret the cessation of sedation to terminally ill people and the suffering that could cause them at that time. Well, those palliative care that those twelve defamed doctors were doing is what the PP now recommends as an alternative to euthanasia. And it says article 10.1 textually: palliative sedation if the symptoms are refractory to treatment, although this implies a shortening of life. Finally, the first falsehood is that it is not an amendment to euthanasia. The second is set out in the explanatory memorandum, paragraph 3, on the preliminary article of the alleged amendment to the PP, which states that the fundamental principle of full respect for the will of people in the end-of-life process is laid down. It is false, because this amendment only respects people whose will coincides with the will of the PP. If the will is another, she is accused of criminal will. They criminalize those who seek help to die and those who help them to die. They like to judge others very much: those who don't think how they are criminals, don't respect life... Well, everything that's been heard here and that's not worth naming. Article 15 of the Constitution defends and protects the right to life, is a mandate to protect the dignity of individuals and to ensure their right to live. Of course, we all defend life, we all defend palliatives - not like others who do not defend palliatives - we all defend that Health must offer such care, but here we are talking about the right to euthanasia, not palliative care. [[applause]] The word euthanasia, as has already been said here, means good death, in the sense of non-painful death. [[Rumors]] You might as well listen a little bit. That death must be carried out by others, because, under different circumstances, the person who wishes to die cannot carry it out by himself. Everyone must own his or her life, have the right to live in freedom and have the right to die voluntarily, because everyone owns himself or herself. Euthanasia implies a decision made by a suffering person whose suffering he does not want to tolerate. His will is: I want to die. And we say it clearly: I want to die. She cannot carry it out by some kind of impediment; we know that most of the time it is a physical impediment, fear of suffering, painful death, etc. That person asks for help from society, from the whole of humanity, in order to have a good death. We, as human beings, must help her, because it is our duty. To help her die is to respect her will. 78% of the population, according to CIS, and 84, according to Metroscopia, support the regulation of a law for euthanasia. There is a demand and a social consensus. I remember the appearances - I don't know if some of you were there, I imagine - in the Ernest Lluch room of several societies fighting for the right to a dignified death, just before confinement. At that meeting were the presidents of two medical schools; one was from the College of Doctors of Madrid. The representatives of these schools declared themselves in favour of the law of euthanasia and assumed that it was a social requirement. They said no one like doctors was aware of that need. I also remember the PP's words, but they're not worth it. We want euthanasia to be a right, but it is certainly not an obligation. Only those who wish to use that right have that right, but PP and VOX do not tolerate anyone having that right. They want to impose on us their idea of how we should die. They don't respect anyone's will. We want to defend euthanasia for several reasons, and I don't know which one matters more. First, for the existence of intolerable suffering. Only those who have this experience know whether their suffering is tolerable or intolerable. There are times when a person who knows that he is going to die in a short time and whose body is deteriorating does not want to tolerate that process. It may be possible to apply palliatives to her, but it is also possible that that person does not want such palliatives, but decides when it will end. Another reason is freedom. Every person owns his or her life, and that means having control, to the extent possible, of his or her death. And the other reason is for humanity, for God's sake! Euthanasia involves a request for help, for help to die to those who can carry it forward. A human being asks this House to help him and to pass a law, that euthanasia be a right included in the portfolio of public health services. As human beings we are, we cannot let them down. Totally against the supposed amendments to the totality of PP and VOX, of course. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs. Medel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We'll vote in three minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you, as I usually do, that you will only be able to vote from your seat, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have already cast the vote through the telematics procedure cannot do so again from their seats. Thank you very much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u119	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. No-law propositions. No bill by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on improving the network of public resources that facilitate co-responsibility for care. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 144 plus 206 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 80 plus 94 telematics votes, 174; against, 20 plus 32 telematics votes, 52; abstentions, 44 plus 80 telematics votes, 124.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u121	It's approved. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on rationalizing the structure of state administration. [[File number 162/000224]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u122	No bill by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on rationalizing the structure of State administration. We are voting on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 143 plus 204 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 42 plus 59 telematics votes, 101; against, 80 plus 112 telematics votes, 192; abstentions, 21 plus 33 telematics votes, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u123	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u124	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the measures being taken by the Government of Spain to revive the economy. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 143 plus 205 by telephone, 348; in favour, 42 plus 59 by telephone, 101; against, 82 plus 113 by telephone, 195; abstentions, 19 plus 33 by telephone, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u125	It's rejected. - OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES PROVIDED FOR [[Lord KANDAMIL KINGDOM]] THE GOVERNMENT TO SOLUTION THE INDUSTRIAL CRISIS IN GALICIA. [[File number 173/000016]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u126	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candamil, on the measures envisaged by the Government to resolve the industrial crisis in Galicia. The vote will take place on a point-by-point basis. We shall proceed to vote on item 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 143 plus 206 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 19 plus 39 telematics votes, 58; against, 122 plus 153 telematics votes, 275; abstentions, 2 plus 14 telematics votes, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u127	Consequently, it is rejected. Point number two. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 143 plus 206 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 19 plus 40 telematics votes, 59; against, 122 plus 151 telematics votes, 273; abstentions, 2 plus 15 telematics votes, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u128	Consequently, it is rejected. Point number three. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 143 plus 206 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 120 plus 156 telematics votes, 276; against, 21 plus 36 telematics votes, 57; abstentions, 2 plus 14 telematics votes, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u129	Paragraph 3 was therefore adopted. Point number four. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 143 plus 206 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 1 plus 21 telematics votes, 22; against, 81 plus 97 telematics votes, 178; abstentions, 61 plus 88 telematics votes, 149.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u130	Consequently, it is rejected. Point number five. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 143 plus 206 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 1 plus 19 telematics votes, 20; against, 139 plus 171 telematics votes, 310; abstentions, 3 plus 16 telematics votes, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u131	Consequently, it is rejected. Point number six. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 143 plus 206 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 43 plus 70 telematics votes, 113; against, 80 plus 94 telematics votes, 174; abstentions, 20 plus 42 telematics votes, 62.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u132	Consequently, it is rejected. Point number seven. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 143 plus 206 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 61 plus 98 telematics votes, 159; against, 80 plus 94 telematics votes, 174; abstentions, 2 plus 14 telematics votes, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u133	Consequently, it is rejected. Point number 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 143 plus 205 by telephone, 348; in favour, 61 plus 97 by telephone, 158; against, 80 plus 94 by telephone, 174; abstentions, 2 plus 14 by telephone, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u134	Consequently, it is rejected. - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures the Government is going to take to ensure free, peaceful elections and no acts of violence and intimidation in the Basque and Galician countries. [[File number 173/000017]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u135	Motion following urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures that the Government will take to ensure free, peaceful and non-violent elections in the Basque Country and Galicia. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 143 plus 206 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 21 plus 45 telematics votes, 66; against, 80 plus 115 telematics votes, 195; abstentions, 42 plus 46 telematics votes, 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u136	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u137	Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 27/2020 of 4 August on extraordinary and urgent financial measures applicable to local entities. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 143 plus 206 by-laws, 349; in favour, 76 plus 80 by-laws, 156; against, 67 plus 126 by-laws, 193.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u138	The Royal Decree-Law is repealed [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u139	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposed organic law on the regulation of euthanasia, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 143 plus 205 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 63 plus 80 telematics votes, 143; against, 80 plus 123 telematics votes, 203; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u140	The amendment to the entire alternative text is therefore rejected. [[Applauds]] Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposed organic law on the regulation of euthanasia submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 143 plus 205 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 63 plus 80 telematics votes, 143; against, 80 plus 124 telematics votes, 204; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-10-CD200910.u141	The amendment to the entire alternative text is therefore rejected. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was two and ten minutes in the afternoon.
