ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[Rumors]] Please, I beg your silence. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Isabel García Tejerina, I ask Don Gabriel Elorriaga Pisarik if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u2	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u3	Don Gabriel Elorriaga Pisarik has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that there will be no vote on any of the items on the agenda today. This afternoon the telematic vote on the amendments and the particular vote on the opinion of the Committee on Social and Economic Reconstruction will begin. At tomorrow's sitting the Presidency will announce the outcome of these votes prior to the start of the telematic vote on the opinion. Having said that, we begin with the agenda item on the opinion of the Committee on Social and Economic Reconstruction. The President of the Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction, Mr López Álvarez, has the floor for the presentation of the initiative. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u5	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. They surely know that all the sessions of the Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction - all of them - we started them by keeping a minute of silence, and we did so because it was a conscious way of answering two of the most important questions that one can ask in politics: why and by whom. We were very clear about why and who we were there for. This was a Commission that was born because a simple virus, something we didn't even see, was there and is still giving us a bath of reality. It is revealing our weakness, our vulnerability, even our ignorance of many things, but above all it is a virus that has left thousands of dead compatriots to whom we cannot forget, whom on too many occasions not even their families have been able to fire and whom we wanted to keep in memory through that minute of silence of tribute and respect. And at the same time we also saw that there was a citizenry facing the pandemic, women and men fighting and not surrendering, pulling out weak forces, learning every day to improve the fight against the virus and, also, to improve how to sustain a country that had had to lock itself in their homes. Therefore, next to that minute of silence there was always a recognition, a thank you, a applause or - as Vetusta Morla says - a forbidden embrace to those who make the dirty work the most beautiful work in the world and paint the darkness blue; that is, to those who in these hard, hard times were, we were and still today are taking care of and healing, supplying, transporting and protecting us. They and they were - because they had to be - the driving force behind the political wills with which we came to this Commission. We already knew that the pandemic was not limited to a health crisis. We already knew that when to save lives one must paralyse an entire country, one must confine the vast majority of its citizens, the social and economic consequences would be tremendous, dramatically devastating for millions of people if we did nothing to avoid it. Therefore, the idea of the President of the Government, born of the most absolute political logic, to seek the greatest possible agreement to rebuild our country after the effects of the pandemic, redirected to this Congress by the request of the opposition leader, became a Commission set up with the unanimous agreement of all parliamentary groups on 7 May. And so that aphorism is not fulfilled: if you want a problem to rot, create a Commission; we gave ourselves a period of two months because it was urgent, because there is an entire country waiting and because nothing can rot if the future of Spanish society is at stake. And so it was. In less than two months we have adopted an opinion with four blocks, with four areas of proposals, which is what we are putting before the plenary of this House today. But in order for this to have been possible, many people have had to speak to whom, on behalf of all the members of the Commission, I have to thank in a chapter that is not at all protocol, but absolutely sincere. I start with the staff of this house: tachygraphers, ujieres, technicians, computers, cleaning, documentation, security, lawyers and lawyers; this house has an absolutely extraordinary staff without which nothing we do here would be possible. [[Applauds]] Thanks also to the more than 150 people who have attended both the plenary session of the Commission and its four working groups, who, in a disinterested way, have provided us with their knowledge, their experience and their proposals, because they have all transferred to us contributions of enormous value that have served us to learn and much; as valuable have also been the more than a thousand contributions that we have received, through the website, from a citizen who has again shown us that it is dynamic and wants to get involved in public life. I therefore believe that it is our duty to put at your service the instruments to do so. Thanks to the media professionals, without which our work would be locked between these four walls, without any path or social penetration. Thank you for your work to all the parliamentary groups, but especially to your staff, advisers, technicians, assistants, who support us and make our work easier every day. As I said in the Commission, I'm sure I'm leaving someone, so just in case, thanks to all of them and all of them. As I said, this is a sincere thank you because all of them and all of them have allowed us to define the space of this Commission in which to demonstrate the power of politics. The noble function of politics is to make what is necessary possible; to make what a country needs real. That is why politics is the way - I would say the only way - to institutionalize, that is to say to make viable, to make the sovereign will of citizens come true. Therefore, in the midst of an unprecedented crisis is the time of politics with capitals. The policy with capitals is the one that makes a shared diagnosis of what is going on, it is the one that makes a common reflection on what is to come and it is the one that compacts the answers on what needs to be done to get out as soon as possible of the crisis, of course, but above all to get out all and all without leaving anyone abandoned in the gutter. And to do so there were at least four things that we have learned and that I believe we have shared: one, that investing in public health is literally investing in the lives of citizens and that, therefore, we must build strong, universal and sustainable public health systems that foresee future setbacks and that are prepared to face new crises. Two, that shutting down a company is much easier than creating a new one and that, therefore, helping companies and workers to continue their employment relationship is essential to get out of the crisis as soon as possible. Three, that if we want to be a decent country of free and equal women and men we cannot abandon anyone to their fate, we cannot allow our citizens not to have covered the basic needs in health, in education, in care, in pensions, because then they would be slaves of necessity and could not be either free or equal. And four, that Europe had to be more Europe than ever before and help those countries that needed their help because it was the only way to save Europeans and, fortunately, today we have extraordinary news in this regard. [[Applauds]] And with these four basic things, four working groups were set up to discuss and propose measures in the areas of health, economic recovery, social policies and care and Europe, and their conclusions are those that we bring to your attention today. And speaking of considerations, allow me the last one. We should understand all and all that we cannot allow Spain to fight itself, to waste its energies in internal struggles. We must unite to get out of the crisis together, we must add strength so that the future does not become a sort of hopeless abyss for an immense majority of citizens. Therefore, our ethical, moral and political obligation at this time is to seek what unites us and not amplify what separates us. We should understand that to agree and agree is not to abandon our own positions; it is to recognize and recognize ourselves in the plurality of society; it is to recognize the other as different from ourselves, but at the same time and with greater conviction, to recognize that the very existence of Spanish society is based on solid pillars that are no more than the great agreements that we have been weaving with those others in our democratic history, and that without those agreements we would not be a country, Spain, with a plural and diverse society that we would be proud of, but that we would be a series of tribes confronted with each other. To agree and give in to other positions - as we have seen this morning in Europe - is not an exercise of cowardice but of enormous value and strong convictions, and for that reason - I say this because I hear it too often - we must not give up on ideologies. Ideologies are the orderly way to present and defend our ethical convictions. To do this, we do not even need to exceed the acronyms of our parties, simply to understand that by agreeing with others we make them bigger. The opposite in this case and with this crisis, that is, the lack of agreements, would make the people, that our compatriots, whom we want to represent - and we are filled with mouth and chest saying it - live worse and, of course, we are not here for that. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u6	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the defence of the amendments, the particular vote put forward and the particular positions put forward, as well as for the fixing of positions, first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u7	President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say first of all that it is gratifying, both for me and especially for the people I represent, to intervene in a parliamentary event, as is the opinion of a Commission as exceptional as that of Social and Economic Reconstruction, set up to respond collectively to the crisis of COVID. We have endeavoured to ensure that the depopulation and socio-territorial problems of emptied Spain were present in the approach of the Commission's working groups. We therefore thank those Members and parliamentary groups who have been receptive to these problems which, to a large extent, have so far been overlooked in the political debates in Congress in previous legislatures. From now on, depopulation and emptied Spain must not only be present on the political agenda, but we must approach this problem unequivocally as a real state problem; a socio-territorial issue treated with rigour, with a marked holistic sense and assumed in the approach of all the public policies that develop. We are grateful that this responsiveness has been reflected in the agreements reached through amendments that we have negotiated with most of the political groups or through the direct vote that has been taken on many of our proposals. I would also like to thank all those who spoke and were present in the working groups. Behind this Commission there has been a real collective effort by both Congress and Spanish society represented, on the one hand, by the representatives who have come at the request of the parliamentary groups and, on the other, by the thousands or hundreds of contributions that the citizens have made through the website. We are aware that for this problem it is only the beginning and that political progress and achievements for social minorities are always tasks of small steps and above all of a continuous and persistent effort, but in that we are and in that task we will insist. Depopulation in Spain is a socio-territorial effect of the development model which has the magnitude, believe me, of a huge state problem which cannot be corrected by simple ad hoc measures. Our hand is therefore open to all parliamentary groups to persist in this task, it is a task of all and of all we call you to correct the effects of depopulation in emptied Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u8	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mazón Ramos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u9	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I want to say is that this is not what was intended. The result is a 134-page document full of good intentions. It's about 400 resolutions, 393 exactly, no quantification of any kind; most are good, but almost all are generic goals without a single quantification. Of course, with this approach, it is difficult, if not impossible, to reach agreement in many areas of party programmes, because we would all be the same and that is not the case, but it is a great job that we will certainly use in the future. In the Regionalist Party of Cantabria we continue to argue that a great pact is needed between the Government and the main opposition party, the People's Party; an agreement on four or five basic things that must basically include how to apply the resources and constraints of the European Union. Short-term measures are needed to combat the economic crisis that is already plagued by millions of Spaniards. However, we will vote in favour because we share most of the proposals and, although this is not operational, I insist, the Government and the People's Party must sit alone this time, and I hope that they will not ask for another Commission again. The rest will keep them in stability for the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u10	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I share the words of the President of the Commission in relation to all those who have participated in responding as responsible for different groups and for all those who, in their personal capacity, have sent us all their concerns about the solutions that could be given to Spain in the future. That being said, I believe that we must say at this moment that Spain is in something else today. Because it is true that this Commission has been set up, but it is also true that nothing has been done to have a plan B at the moment. And the current moment is the one that worries all the Spaniards. They're worried about what's going on with the rebound we've got right now. They are concerned about what is happening to all those people who have started their activity and who now have to stop it again. They are concerned about a very important sector such as tourism, which is not being solved and is a very big problem in this country, despite what Minister Garzón says. We are concerned that at the moment, as Mr Mazón has rightly said, many generalities have been discussed here. There are issues that can include several legislatures, they are intense government programs, but we are not solving the problem of Spanish citizens today, because there are many who do not know whether or not they can go out on the street, whether they are going to get infected or not, and if they get infected, what happens, what happens to their family members. That, as of today, you don't know. There are many people who are closing and lowering the blind again today, and they have not been given any solution. To this must be added that we want to put in the Commission the ideological bias, to which the President referred. And, of course, when an ideological bias is put in, as was done with the furious attack on concerted education, which is part of the Spanish public system, it is being called upon to shout that some of the proposals cannot be supported. That's what the Socialist Party government and Podemos have been looking for. I would like to leave here this afternoon knowing the position - I hope the Socialist Party spokesman will say so - of the Socialist Party on labour reform. Is it going to change? Is he going to change? Is something going to be done about labor reform, yes or no? [[A Member of Parliament: Yes!]] We can say yes, I've heard it, but it's just that you guys now paint a lot less than you painted yesterday. [[Applauds]] That is why I am not addressing you; I am addressing the Socialist Party. Madam spokesman - I do not know whether you are going to talk or who is going to come out of the Socialist Party - will the labor reform, as it was done on that paper, which I assume is already in the trash, with which they wanted to deceive Bildu and Podemos?, yes or no? Let's see if we can find out this afternoon. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u12	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Quevedo Iturbe.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u13	Hala, in a minute! New Canarias must recognize the enormous work that has been done in this Commission for Reconstruction, which, of course, knows that it suffers from the problem that it cannot be landed in everything, but that it has the virtue of recognizing some general lines for recovery that are just the opposite of what was done in the previous crisis, with the results that are harmful to Spanish society and also to the economy that we all know. This Commission and its four opinions follow an agreement for the social and economic reconstruction of the Canary Islands, which was adopted in our community by an absolutely overwhelming majority in political and social terms. I have to point this out here because, in fact, it is landing there in some relevant aspects as far as the interests and singularities of the Canary Islands are concerned, which we can understand are not perfectly reflected in these opinions because of their broad nature, but which must necessarily be considered when it comes to action, which is what it is all about. Without further ado, congratulations on the work done and good afternoons. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u14	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs. Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. What a bustle last night from Brussels to the government parties! I have the report here, five articles in which Brussels talks about the Canary Islands and obliges the Government of Spain, with budget headings, to recognise the condition of ultraperipherality: 475 million for outermost regions in investment in growth and employment, 271 million in European territorial cooperation, 40 euros per capita for the outermost regions for digitisation and the population for the outermost regions will be weighted. For all that I want to thank France and Portugal specifically here, because copper was beaten. And you know why I'm telling you? Because I had to be working for three months in this Commission for Reconstruction to recognize the special status of the Canary Islands, the different policies that the Canary Islands needed, the gravity of the economic situation in the Canary Islands; I was told by the spokespersons - except for Mr Héctor Gómez, in the European one, that I will support her - that the Canary Islands was like the rest of the Spanish communities. Europe once again recognizes our status, our uniqueities and conditions for the Government of Spain, but this Parliament approves measures for the reconstruction of this country which do not serve the Canary Islands - those which are distant and island - but also the sanitary measures for Balearics, Ceuta and Melilla, when all we asked for is to have doctors under the same conditions as the peninsular territory, and even so it was said no. That is why this Member is going to abstain in health and economics, because I am not going to be an inconvenience, but they are no good for my land. I am going to support the European one, but I am going to vote against the social one, because they are dealing, with a purely ideological issue, with concerted education and do not commit themselves to the Unity Act or to education from 0 to 3 or really commit themselves to those who are going through the worst in this country, as is the people of my land. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mrs Vehí Cantenys.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u17	Thank you, President. I wanted to make a preview. Today the trial is taking place for the people who were part of the table of the Parliament of Catalonia and for our partner, former member of the CUP, Mireia Boya. I wanted to remind you that it is a trial for allowing a parliamentary debate; it is not for corruption or for mismanagement during COVID-19, it is for allowing a parliamentary debate. So from here, all the support and many thanks for being-there. With regard to the opinion, we have looked at it very carefully. There are many amendments of good will - we could say - we have come to some of the appearances, but we think - and we said this in the investiture - that it is an impractical opinion with the agreement reached with the European Union tonight, and I will try to explain it in the short time that I have. The EUR 140 billion received by the Spanish State has a small letter; the small letter is political conditionality and the ability to intervene. What does that mean? We ask them, "Short cuts? Do you mean a new labour reform that you, from the PSOE, did not want it to be part of the opinion? You mean public debt limitation? Moreover, there is no clear unified fiscal policy nor is tax havens addressed. Therefore, how will this be paid and what consequences will it have? We expect the President's explanations next week, but to us the soft conditionality - which is called - reminds us to change the black men of the troika for the ladies and gentlemen - or the lady - of the grey of the so-called frugal countries, which for us are directly obstructive. In addition, the Governor of the Banco de España, in one of his appearances in the Commission, was forecasting a fall of more than 6 points of GDP in relation to 2009. It therefore seems clear that this opinion, however good it may be, is a wet paper. You have long renounced sovereignty to defend your people, not us; we want all sovereignty: before the European Union, before IBEX 35, even before your Government and before your State. Therefore, in order to defend the sovereignty of our people, we have nothing but self-determination. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u18	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group of Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u19	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. After three months of work, hundreds of appearances - some of them very interesting -, proposals, debates and amendments have - I would say - reached the starting point, the objective that was apparently being pursued: to show that something changes so that nothing changes. Back to old normal, I'd sum it up. But for this, in fact, it was enough to be clear from the beginning and to be told that the system that so much precariousness, poverty and exclusion has generated was the system that wanted to be supported. They have achieved this and apparently, in case it were little, agreed and agreed further with the right; all of this has been made by the most progressive Government in history. You said you wanted to rebuild and you did, you have rebuilt what led us to this situation of social and economic crisis. They have put new adjectives on him, yes: what they used to be antisocial policies are now reconstruction measures, and what they used to be neoliberal policies are now reactivation; I suppose that of reactivation of precariousness, exclusion, reactivation of dismissals, the privileges of the rich and the impoverishment of the social majority. You have perfectly reconstructed the neoliberal system that devours rights and freedoms, and by the way you have also used it to test the renationalization of health, attacking self-government and our own institutions. Frankly, we tell you that we do not find in the proposals that we are voting on any real change measures today. Those of us who are betting on a change have proposed taxes on the rich and banks, public pensions worthy of a minimum of 1080 euros, repealing labor reform, betting on culture, curbing the climate emergency by betting on zero residue, protecting the self-employed or supporting families at risk of exclusion. And they have accepted nothing, not just one of these proposals, which are not only proposals by Euskal Herria Bildu, but claims collected from the movement of pensioners, women workers, workers and trade unions, the self-employed or the ecological movement. The PSOE has said no to all of them; therefore, we will vote against the opinions. Because we still do not understand how it is possible that, with the existence of a supposed progressive majority, which is supposedly the most progressive government in history, no progress has been made in one of the demands that the social and working majority needs and demands. If this progressive majority exists, how is it understood that minimum pensions of EUR 1080 are rejected for pensioners? How is it understood that a tax on the great fortunes that affects the richest 1% of this state or a tax on the bank is rejected? How is it understood that the labour reform that so many rights have taken away and that so much unemployment and insecurity has brought about is not to be repealed? It is something that those who today reject these measures should explain to the citizenry. Perhaps the answer is that some of the actors in this progressive majority have decided that they prefer to walk next to the right by accepting their policies. We regret that they were not courageous and that they did not bet on progressive policies of change. We're really sorry. Today this House will convey the message to people that things cannot be changed, that this is what is there and that it is the natural state of things. But we want to send another message, we want to make it clear that what has made us believe that it is normal is not: that throwing people out of their homes is not normal; that the rich do not pay and evade taxes is not normal; that there are queues of hunger is not normal; that some have as much money as to live five lives while others cannot or pay bills is not normal; that the workers are exploited or fired so that others are much richer is not normal; that pensioners survive with poverty pensions is not normal either, and that youth have to emigrate in search of a job and a decent life is not normal either. It shouldn't be. And no matter how much they tell us, no matter how much they try to convince us, all this is not normal because all this can also be changed. Soon we will see, as the ERTS are finished, how from the ERTs you pass to the EREs and from the EREs to the street. This is the path that thousands and thousands of workers fear right now, because it is foreseeable that in a short time what is happening with Siemens Gamesa in Nafarroa, with Tubacex in Álava or with Nissan in Catalonia will spread. How companies that have received huge amounts of public money go without any problem, leaving thousands of workers on the street, while those workers get no answer. We could start by repealing labour reform, thus offering a little more certainty to the working class. Today, in particular, the fund has been agreed to deal with the crisis generated by COVID. It might seem good news, but we are concerned about the small letter, which defines the toll that will be imposed on States to access these funds, what will be the price that citizens will have to pay: new labour reforms, cuts in pensions, in public services, in education, in wages and to maintain the labour reform of the PP. We already know that story and it doesn't end well for most. That is why reforms or cuts, which will surely come, can be done in two ways, either above or below. It can be cut down on public wages, health and education, cut pensions and even more precarious workers' lives, or it can be cut down on top in defense, in the purchase of tanks and weapons, and it can cut or eliminate directly the millionaire destined for the Royal House. It can also be cut into pharaonic infrastructure that so much likes in this state. Think about where they're going to cut because we think there's a new chance now. We said that this pandemic had blown up the seams of a system that no longer works, that it no longer works, and that this pandemic had shown before the eyes of the majority that it had to change, that it could be improved. We ask you, therefore, to rectify, to bet on left-wing policies, on policies that benefit the majority and not just a few. I would like to recall in this closure of committees that we have been responsible throughout the state of alarm, that we have valued and supported the social and economic measures that have been beneficial to people, and today we would have liked to have offered or been able to offer another example of those commitments having reached comprehensive agreements to put in place new measures to build that social shield that is so much talked about and to ensure a new well-being based, yes, on justice and equity. We would like to have been able to offer an image of unity from the left, but a new opportunity has been missed. We are here to defend and improve the life of Basque citizenship by being supportive also with the working and popular classes of this state. That is the word we have given, and it is the word we intend to do by doing everything in our power to prevent this crisis from being paid back. And if the government bets on it, we will find ourselves; if it continues to strengthen failed policies, they will not be able to count on us. We're living a second phase of the pandemic. The rebounds and the increase in contagion are already a reality. We must also appeal to everyone's responsibility not to relax, because the virus is still here. But this cannot be an excuse for criminalizing certain groups. We're seeing one day after another how youth is criminalized. They are called irresponsible and say little or no that they do not care about the pandemic and its consequences, but it cannot be a coincidence that, according to the elections in Euskadi and Galicia, the rebounds and contagions will suddenly increase the mask out - now yes - mandatory and - bingo - the fault of all this is young people. Well, no. It is of those leaders who put their particular and partisan interests above health, generating the feeling that the pandemic had practically passed; of those who repeated to us that we could relax because, if we could go to the beach and the mountain and everything was going well, we could also vote. Well, no. It's not young people's fault and young people don't deserve this. Finally, we want to convey a message about culture. Culture is safe; it is that essential good that helped us to overcome the worst days of confinement and we have sought to make it recognized, that culture was recognized as a necessity in order to be able to take concrete and silent measures to reflect and strengthen it, and once again they have said no. Some say it is more dangerous to go to a cinema or theater with measures and a safe distance than to go to work at a factory with thousands of people on a crowded subway. In factories there are apparently no contagions; in theatres, yes. In the full meters there are no contagions; in the cinemas, yes. Let each one draw his or her conclusions. We will continue to support culture, one of the sectors that has given us all the most and which is receiving less support. Culture is safe. [[Finish your speech in Basque.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u20	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJPNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, how did this start from the Commission for Reconstruction and how it will end? What a change! It was a Moncloa occurrence at a time when the government felt very tight about the political emergencies of the moment. Someone pulls a rabbit out of the joker and some re-divide Pacts of the Moncloa that create the necessary basis for economic reconstruction. As such, it was decided, at the initiative of the Executive, that they should be broader and thus include subjects such as education or social services. In a situation and with a political environment like the present, the logical thing would have been to manage it in a careful way, looking for a short text but that clearly pointed out the objectives and looking as far as possible for the most complicated common minimum. And to seek as much as possible that common minimum was to concentrate efforts in the field of the economy, leaving for a more calm reflection, with greater distance and perspective, the health field. It wasn't meant to be like this. In addition, it has been managed as if it were one more parliamentary initiative. It is true that it has contributed to the efforts of the People's Party to refer the discussion to the corset of parliamentary structures; parliamentary structures which, already rigid per se, have become even more complicated on the basis of the creation of committees and working groups with endless appearances that did not follow any script. The result has been to enter the typical parliamentary dynamic that we have known for years. The goal is to carry out a text so as not to lose face; to carry out a text beyond the actual scope and effectiveness of the contents. And, for that, one negotiates here with one party, there with the other, acquiesce with a third party, and to be possible without them knowing each other and without being able to know, however much some have accepted something, if they themselves are agreeing with something else that can be unacceptable to you. I'd call it a legislative approach to robberies. In addition, the day before or the day before the votes were taken. It's like introducing each other's little unconnected wedges would be useful. On the other hand, and more importantly, the coalition parties have sought to turn these agreements into a endorsement of their government programme and their immediate legislative programme. In some areas the text has been unnecessarily taken to the ideological field, which made the agreement precisely impossible. I have said this repeatedly, but I would like to reiterate that these agreements should have focused on the economic issue of reactivation of employment, but you have endeavoured to enter into matters which, according to the established jurisdictional distribution, are not the competence of the State. On the one hand, there are references in these areas to a change in powers through de facto or basic legislation, when what they say actually implies a change in the statutory framework, which can only be changed through specific procedures regulated in the statutes of autonomy and which therefore need the consensus of the communities and even, in some cases, the endorsement of the citizen. We are not going to cover something like this, so that it could be said in the future that these changes counted on our consensus. On the other hand, it is possible to tell the Autonomous Communities how they should use and apply their own competences, an attitude that is sharpened in the so-called Working Group on Social Policy and Care System. Millions of euros will now come from Europe; that is announced to us. In fact, today morning we are told an agreement whose small letter will have to be studied carefully. In any case, there are not a few million of them to do what is happening to us, because it seems that their implementation is subject to the approval of the European majority of both the conditions and the sectors in which they are to be implemented. Given the urgency of taking action in the face of the crisis, do we already know how we will implement them? Does the texts resulting from the parliamentary work we are discussing today tell us anything about this? I'm afraid not, just a list of vague generalities that show no line decided by the transformation or bet on specific sectors. They are, as I pointed out the other day in the Commission's sitting, like a meadow in which a series of poppy trees appear here and there, but not planted with a specific meaning or purpose, but sown to flight and without connection between them. They are generic ideas, many well-intentioned, albeit voluntarist, some good, but without any plan. What real will is there to promote an economic recovery when, at a time when Europe is right to suspend the financial balance, the parties of the government coalition are unable to accept the elimination or modification of the spending rule? Because, despite the Socialist Party and Podemos, an amendment was adopted in the Commission to soften the spending rule, at least at the local level, something absolutely insufficient if it is not envisaged the same for the autonomous communities of common system, and specifically for the outlying communities, and which led us to abstain in the final vote in the Commission to see if the government was starting that path. We've seen that before. The document sent by the Minister of Finance to the FEMP proposing that the municipalities yield their surplus to the Government so that it would allow them to spend in those areas that he himself indicated is not only unacceptable, but a joke of bad taste. If we had any doubt about our intention to vote, this has confirmed it to us and we will vote no, beyond that we continue not to convene the joint commissions of concert and convention in Euskadi and Navarra, when, unlike the rest of the autonomous communities, those depend, like the State, on their own capacity to collect and, therefore, it is peremptory that they may have clear capacity for indebtedness. I return to the point where my thoughts began. Does anyone really care about the content of the Commission's work? On the same day that the Reconstruction Commission was meeting, on Friday 3 July, the President met in Moncloa with trade unions and employers and announced a comprehensive agreement on employment and economic recovery and, for the most part, the day before also announced an injection of 50 billion for some sectors. [[The lady]] If you have already decided what you are going to do, if you already have an extra-parliamentary agreement, why do you want an agreement in the reconstruction pact? In fact, that attitude - on the same day, I insist - indicates that it really does not matter what is decided in Parliament, that this theoretical parliamentary pact did not cease to be a rabbit pulled out of the joke that served more of a distraction than a useful one. This debate, in the end, after all these weeks, has become a great paripé, and for more inri, as I said before, without even having the ability to send a positive message, of hope, to society. Beyond the outcome of today's votes, my party is obviously going to be responsible for the concrete initiatives that are being taken and proposed in this Parliament - those initiatives that go to the ballot - but we cannot endorse with our vote the texts that are being proposed to us today. We will vote in favour of the agreement on Europe, in which most of our amendments have been included, but our vote will be negative for the reasons already pointed out both in the area of public health and public health, in the area of social policies and the care system and also in the area of economic recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u23	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I want to start by saying that, in my opinion, in our opinion - in that of Citizens - we have taken a step in the right direction. All the Members who are here have concluded the work of the Reconstruction Committee and we have managed - although it seems from some speeches I have just heard that it is not - to achieve a high degree of consensus, and I believe that this should be done. We would have liked more consensus, we would have liked more measures, we would have liked more concrete action - as the PNV has just said - a more ambitious result, but we have to show our satisfaction with the degree of understanding between Members who think differently and because we have managed to reach agreements, because the Spanish deserve it, because we owe it to the deceased, also to those who are not in the official registers, to the families, to those who have lost their jobs, to all those who face the future with uncertainty and fear. We must continue to work together for these people, for the Spaniards, seeking consensus, avoiding chryspation, avoiding insult, seeking agreement and above all looking at ourselves in the civil society, to which we represent, which has behaved in this epidemic with great generosity, solidarity, responsibility and integrity, virtues that we must also find politicians when we begin to negotiate. More than three months ago, Inés Arrimadas sent a letter to the President of the Government proposing these pacts of the Moncloa and precisely with this structure that at the end took place in the Congress of Deputies, and we were clear what philosophy was: to abandon dogmatism, to abandon dogmas of faith, sectarianism, and to seek pragmatic solutions that would allow us to get out of the crisis with that slogan: to save lives, to save jobs, to help citizens not lose their dignity as people. We've worked hard, it's my first person, and I want to make a statement from this rostrum, perhaps unusual in that old trench policy. But I would like to thank all the Members, not just those of my group, but those of all the parliamentary groups who have wanted to contribute and build, who have wanted to find solutions. Many people who think differently have reached agreements, and that is the new policy. That has to fill with pride the parties that want to build that useful policy, that new policy. Of course, we have met with parliamentary groups that have used - as always - to divide, to wear down our democracy, groups that have used the pandemic precisely to create disunity; the political groups that are in the 'worst, better', in the 'no is no', in the generation of chaos, and that are very comfortable precisely in that chaos: the populists, the nationalists, the separatists, those who do not love this country. But the others have been there and we have achieved results; we have achieved results in the different working groups. In Health we need to strengthen our health system; we owe it to our health care providers, our heroes, those people who have risked their lives to save those of others. It is not enough to applaud them, we must give them resources, we must protect them, we must strengthen the health system. We have contributed things, and we have supported things from other parliamentary groups, such as, for example, the depoliticization of health leadership positions, the strengthening of the biomedical industry, the drive for a national mental health strategy, that strategic plan for suicide prevention, taking early detection measures for disorders such as autism spectrum, care deficits and hyperactivity, dyslexia, and food-type disorders. We have achieved this public health agency, a national agency that will coordinate the competencies between the Ministry of Health and the autonomous communities, according also to what we agreed in the last extension of the state of alarm, in the Royal Decree-Law 21/2020, the declaration of coordinated actions. And finally, we have succeeded in inserting in the National Health System the health skills of the prisons, with a goal: to protect and strengthen the health system, the whole health system, the public and the private, because if something should teach us this pandemic is that we must fight together against that common enemy that has been the virus. It has been difficult in the economic sphere, but things have also been achieved. It has been achieved that no taxes are imposed on the middle classes, which are always those who pay the duck, which are those who saw their taxes go up with the People's Party and the Socialist Party in the last crisis; we must help them, we must help the self-employed, the entrepreneurs, the families, the workers. We must fight fraud. We must fight against tax evasion, against tax engineering, against tax havens, against the submerged economy. You can't ask to tighten the belt any more those who always do. Those who fail to do so must be persecuted, because if we thus get more people to contribute, those who have always done so with the Treasury, we will be able to pay less. And this economic document is oriented towards the empowerment of economic activity, competitiveness, the promotion of employment, the safeguarding of families; it wins productive Spain and loses the overnight populism. We have already achieved this in the negotiation of alarm state extensions, the flexibility of ERTs, the extraordinary benefits for the self-employed. We have managed to evaluate public policies through the AIReF to review expenditure, to eliminate superfluous items, to eliminate bars, useless expenses. Every cent of euro that we have in our power, we have to devote it to avoiding the suffering of the Spaniards. And we also want to bet on innovation, always the poor sister of budgets; we must invest in R+D+i. The European Union. The agreement reached by the Spanish Government at the European Council is good news. Europe has responded; Spain has to live up to it, respond responsibly and tackle once and for all those structural reforms that neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party, for forty years, have committed in many essential sectors: education, health, the digital divide, e-government, sustainable development. That's exactly where we have to invest. And who have we supported in Europe? Who have we been united in Europe? As always, conservatives, liberals and social democrats; not populists, not extremists. That is what Europe is asking us, that the moderates, the centre, the pragmatics, the sensibles, go hand in hand, and that is also what Spain wants, to flee from extremes and radicalism. And where there has been no way it is in the Social Policy Working Group, because the most radical sector of this government - because the United We can - has refused to endorse aid for public education - because concerted education is public education and cannot be distinguished between labels that are fallacious; it is public education supported with public funds - just as it also refuses to support special education. Dogmas, sectarianism, faith, lack of common sense. That is unfair, that violates equality, that violates freedom of education, and these values are the genetic DNA of my party, of Citizens, so we have to vote against despite the fact that we have also been able to introduce into that document many measures that we consider to be good. But this is an orange line: 25% of students study in concerted education, millions of parents choose it, many teachers leave behind in concerted education and they are also worried, have suffered the pandemic, will have to start the course with insecurity in September, will have to adapt their working methods to distance education. They too are afraid, they are also insecure and the Government abandons them; it abandons teachers, it abandons parents, but above all it abandons young people and children, the future of our country. So rectify; we can rectify in the negotiation of budgets. These budgets must be in the hands of those we believe in Spain, of those we make constructive proposals; they cannot be in the hands of Puigdemont, Torra, Otegi or Mr Rufián because they do not believe in Spain. They must be negotiated with the opposition and the social partners. He's going to be citizens on that road. Citizens will be if they opt for that path, that of pragmatism, that of the center, that of solutions, not that of identity privileges, not that of inequality, not conditioning budgets to do not know what referendum of self-determination that does not save lives, that does not save jobs. I end up as I started, glad of the agreement, glad of the consensus. Let it not be the flower of a day, let us continue on that path, that of the new policy, that of the useful policy. I said it once from this rostrum and I repeat it today: I came here for that, to do that policy and not that old policy that I saw before on television, where everyone was slugging from one side of the Chamber to the other. I came for the new policy, we owe it to the Spaniards, it's our obligation, they pay us the salary for that, to reach agreements, to seek solutions, not to be the problem, to make proposals, not to insult, not to get into the mood. And to reach agreement the words are: unity, useful politics, sense of state; those are the words of my party, of Citizens. These are the words I am saying today and they will be the words that will always listen to me. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u25	Thank you, President. When the Reconstruction Commission took off, it advanced BNG's little confidence in a positive outcome, basically for two reasons. First, because we saw it difficult, if not impossible, to reach an agreement between the main Spanish political forces - the premise from which it was based at the time - that it should be in the direction of implementing really advanced and transformative policies. And, second, especially because we are convinced that the solution to Galicia's social and economic problems will not come from Madrid, but from our own capacity as a people to decide sovereignly and face our future. Unfortunately, our low expectations were confirmed. The BNG defended and defends that the social and economic crisis unleashed by this health emergency cannot be paid again by the same, by the workers and by the peoples, and we see that rhetoric and resounding declarations do not finally correspond to reality. In this Commission, the forces that make up the government, PSOE and Podemos, with the help of the right, rejected our proposals, proposals that were in the direction of mobilizing the economic and financial resources necessary to get out of this crisis with social justice. There they were proposed as a profound tax reform to actually tax big fortunes and big corporations or to recover all the money from the bank rescue fund, to reduce military spending and to renounce arms programs, with a multi-million dollar cost, or the sum expenditure, for example, of the Royal House or, and it is clear that it is time, to nationalize the large corporations of the strategic sectors of the economy, starting with those that were public and should never have been privatized. I remind you, by the way, that one of those privatized public enterprises was Inespal, the current Alcoa, San Cibrao, now in crisis, and in which urgent action by the Government is needed for public intervention and the nationalization of the aluminium plant to ensure continuity of activity and safeguard jobs. They also rejected our proposals in social policy, for example to draw up a plan for public intervention in the homes of older people and put them under the control of the autonomous communities because care and care for our older people is a duty and cannot become a business, which is also maximized by precarising and reducing the quality of the service provided. Also, the proposal to repeal labour reforms from collective bargaining and pensions to rescue stolen rights in the previous crisis. Similarly, they did not take into account our proposal to ensure that public health is provided directly by the Administration, putting an end to the management of public health by other bodies or foundations and to privatization policies. We are pleased that they took into account and incorporated into the text our amendment to eliminate the troop replacement rate in order to be able to adequately meet the needs of a quality and universal public health. Similarly, they disregarded our demand to defend another European policy that leaves behind neoliberal fundamentalism and puts above the interests of the markets the rights of people and mainly of workers and peoples. Similarly, and in line with what was stated at the beginning, we argue that it is necessary to address the relevant political changes to ensure the effectiveness of social and economic measures, because in the case of countries such as Galicia, with differentiated social and economic characteristics, measures of a general nature, if in the right direction, and we see that this is not the case, they can have a positive effect, but they will always be insufficient if Galicia continues to have no full capacity to decide sovereignly on its affairs and, therefore, to mobilize its resources so that it can promote self-centered development on the basis of the immense potential it possesses. Among other things, it is necessary for the Galician people to be able to control their natural, productive and economic resources because, from our perspective, the autonomous model that emerged from the transition has been found inadequate to solve the main social, economic and political problems of our country, especially because they do not represent real self-government. That is why we demand full sovereignty for our nation, full sovereignty for Galicia. And neither here was there a willingness to accept anything or to approach positions on the part of those who did not so much claim to be federalists or even confederalists; at last. For these and for some other reasons our vote, as we have already said in the Commission, will be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. I listened to President Sánchez this morning and said that he was satisfied with 95% and that, in the end, that was the negotiation. Well, today we are voting on the conclusions of this reconstruction document and since Compromís we could not achieve that, we cannot say that we are satisfied with 95% of this agreement, it would be a pity to be optimistic. I believe that many of our contributions and other formations that have not finally been included were very reasonable or, as Mr Bal said, constructive. The left which is not in the Government is also capable of making very constructive proposals and, above all, thinking about people; proposals that are much more ambitious than those contained in this document. Our proposals responded to what it advocates and defends Commitments: people, first. This document is, in our view, well-intentioned, unambitious and sometimes very supportive of the right-wing proposals. I'm a little scared of Mr. Bal's speech being so happy. I believe that, referring to a progressive government, it is probably not the best praise. I also have to say, in honour of the truth, that some of our proposals, which were vital to us, have been accepted: the commitment to present a new funding model before the end of the year, as was written in our investment agreement and as demonstrated by President Sánchez's commitment at a monitoring session a month ago. And a second proposal, which was that companies receiving public aid should have commitments to people, such as ending the digital divide; commitments to society; environmental commitments; closing the gender gap; and not taxing tax havens. But, as the president said, that was negotiation. We announce that we will vote in favour. We are firmly convinced that citizens want us to reach agreements, to be able to make efforts to send positive messages, consensus, dialogue and pacts, and that is why we will vote in favour. We believe that, above noise, disputes or refreshments, people want peace and certainty. Our absolutely fundamental proposals remain outside the document. In agriculture, pest research, reciprocity with imports from third countries, negotiation of the new CAP to recognize the uniqueness of Mediterranean agriculture. In taxation, progress in the fiscal dumping that some autonomous community makes, such as Madrid, or a special regime for areas depopulated or at serious risk of depopulation. Changing the spending rule once and for all so that municipalities can spend their surplus on their citizens or obstacles to the replacement rate. That the State assume its 50 per cent of the Dependency Act, as stipulated by law; refer social benefits to the inter-professional minimum wage or equal contributory pensions to 70 per cent of the inter-professional minimum wage. Proposals in our way of looking sensible, moderate, which we humbly believe enriched the document. We have also signed compromise amendments and we appreciate the willingness and willingness of the spokesmen of the Government and the various groups. We will vote in favour and hope that all these measures will not be forgotten and that many of the just, reasonable and constructive measures that have been left out of the document, those that we have done and those that have done by other parliamentary groups, can be implemented throughout the parliamentary term. That is what we expect from a progressive Government which, let us not forget, many of us are helping to make that possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u28	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Gil. Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u29	Good afternoon. Today I could make a speech that is very easy, that we all know how to do, that we all do it many times and that has to do with common places, talking about agreement, talking about consensus, plurality, saying generalities of those that are called state and saying that it is very good that we all agree on great things. But agreements, in order to transform people's lives, must be translated into daily transformations, especially for those who live day by day with anguish. I, honestly, at a critical moment when we don't know if we're going to experience rebounds, if we're going to have tough circumstances, I don't know if we can say that we're better, I don't know if we can say that we've taken note of some of our weaknesses and that we've amended them or that we've corrected them to be better today. I do not know if we can say today that we have taken note of the applause and the grandiose words of March and that we are going to turn them into policies, because I have the feeling that the government has two channels, has a channel when you want to do things and then you take it to the State Official Gazette, and you have a channel when you may not feel like doing things so much, then you take it to a committee or you take it to a PNL or you take it to great institutional statements. I would like these things that we are discussing here today to be taken to the State Official Gazette. The social majority exists and the parliamentary majority exists, it is the same that produced the investiture, what is missing - I believe - is the political will on issues such as the COVID rate that makes those who have the most national effort pay, on issues such as conciliation and paid permits so that telework is not a burden on families, on issues such as the constitutional armor of public health or a Spanish public pharmacist. Let us imagine that one of the headlines who are coming out now did not talk about Oxford or the United States, but said that a Spanish public laboratory with Spanish researchers is about to discover the vaccine against COVID. But, of course, that costs money and for that we have to invest first. For all these things there is already a parliamentary majority; whether it exists, it is the one produced by this Government. And that parliamentary majority must not be sought in the Reconstruction Commission, that parliamentary majority has already been expressed, what needs to be done is to use it. Now that the General Budgets of the State are about to arrive, I would urge you to use it. These General State Budgets can be green, they can be progressive and they can be fair, and the majority already exists, it is the majority of the investiture, with that is the one with which the General State Budgets come out that are worth it. We, in spite of that, have come with the best of intentions, with the best will and the best work - and I want to thank my colleague Inés Sabanes, from Equo, who has done an excellent job -, fundamentally for what? To try that the things we learned when we were afraid don't forget when we're scared. We have to show that we are not only a country that realizes what is important when we are all afraid, when fear passes, we have to remember what those readings were: the armor of public health, that those who most have contribute more, that we cannot be a country based solely on blood and brick, etc. We have tried to go with that will to the Commission, and in that sense I want to stop at the fundamental amendment, at the amendment which is the central axis of what we are proposing and which I hope will be adopted; it was adopted in the Commission, then it was withdrawn from the Bureau and we are bringing it back and I think it will be adopted because in that all progressive and democratic people agree. In the hardest months, when things were very difficult here, when people locked themselves in the house and were afraid, when no one dared to invest, when companies were closed, at the invisible hand of the market neither saw nor expected. The liberals hid out those days and asked the state to react, and the state reacted and rescued families - less - and, above all, rescued businesses. And it is right that it should do so; however, the State is not just a box from which to draw resources, it is an institution of shared solidarity and, therefore, it is essential that these aids have some conditionality. We have proposed three - we have proposed four, but we stopped sharing dividends until the aid was returned - very simple. Firstly, it is common sense for companies receiving public aid to undertake to comply with the Paris Agreement, the measures to combat climate change, because we no longer have time here, because time is running out here and our way of life on the planet is running out. Secondly, they must commit themselves to combating the digital divide. A revolutionary idea - I suppose you would say that of cultural Marxism - that if a woman does the same work as a man does, but in Spain, unfortunately, that still does not happen. And, thirdly, the question of tax havens. If someone wants money from the state to be rescued, they have to commit to putting that money back in the hole, because if not when they want to be rescued again, it will result that there is no money. So, whoever wants state aid to carry out their business has to pay taxes here, not in tax havens, not even through a subsidiary. You have said that the agreement reached today in Europe is a historic agreement and is a Marshall Plan. We believe that it has worrying things: it has cuts in R & D+i, it has cuts in a fair transition, it has cuts in the health programme, but we believe that it is indeed a good agreement; we congratulate ourselves as a country for that and we congratulate you for that. We think it's a good deal, I don't know if it's as much as a Marshall Plan, but a good deal. Of course, it is a historic opportunity, and that means that the ball is now on its roof. From this historic opportunity of economic resources and political conditions you have to draw a Spanish green deal that starts tomorrow; you can't pull these resources that we are going to get in Europe again in subsidizing the rent economy, in subsidizing the economy again...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u30	Mr. Errejón, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u31	Thank you, Madam President. ... Again in gifts for those upstairs and labyrinths for those downstairs. It's a historic opportunity. If you are willing to take advantage of the conditions, we will accompany you. And to the Dutch inflated who sits on the benches on the right I will tell you that I have heard many times about Spain when it came to facing some Spaniards against others, and now that we could defend the popular sovereignty, the industrialization and the transformation of our country, what a coincidence!, just now you have the flags at home and go with Holland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u32	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Gil. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u33	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I must remind you here in Parliament that today a trial has been initiated against the Bureau of a Parliament, of a legitimate Parliament, simply by allowing parliamentary debate. From here, to all of them, to Lluís Guinó, to Lluís Corominas, to Anna Simó, to Ramona Barrufet and also to Mireia Boya, our recognition and our solidarity. [[Applauds]] Having said that, as far as this Commission is concerned, we know our position: we were skeptical at first, it did not prevent us from participating and doing so actively, and we continued at the end of the process being skeptical as to the content, the outcome and, above all, the implementation. However, in the first document of the four working groups, in that of the European Union, we voted in favour of the Commission and we are going to maintain the vote; we wanted them to negotiate strongly and the result is here. The challenge now is to apply these funds in a rational, efficient and necessary manner. As for the Social Policy Group, we have an insurmountable barrier which was the defense of the concerted school, and here I am a little confused; in any case, I want you to come up here and make it clear to us. I am disconcerted because a compromise amendment, the 4, has entered between the Socialist Group, the United Podemos and the Republican Left, but with the curiosity that it is the literality of the citizens' particular vote, which is not included as others that we have defended this issue. I just ask you to come up here to the rostrum and tell them if you are going to treat the agreed school as well as the public school; if so, we will change the vote. If you're not going to treat the agreed school as well as the public, obviously we won't change it. As far as the Health Working Group is concerned, there is a gap here. We understand that the conclusions are absolutely re-centralizing, that we do not get into the bottom line of the issue, which is funding; we will therefore continue to vote against it. As for the Economic Revitalization Group, which could be applied to all other groups, we maintain skepticism here. Some of our proposals and our demands have been incorporated, which we appreciate, but we would also like to see if there was someone here, not from the Government because it is not here today, but from the groups that support the Government, that commit themselves or that say that they are going to support what this plenary is going to approve, because last week we were living in a skewed situation, which fortunately stopped at the FEMP, and that is that the Minister of Finance made proposals as regards the application of the remnants and the expenditure rule that had nothing to do with the amendment that we had adopted in a compromise with all the parliamentary groups except the Socialist Group. Fortunately that did not cease to be a probe balloon because there was no majority either in the FEMP or in this House to approve it. Indeed, it is not understood that the municipalities make a loan to the State and that it is returned to the State in twelve months. And I must thank here for the sensitivity to be able to incorporate through a compromise amendment one of the many contributions that had been made by the one hundred and fifty representatives - and from here, on behalf of Junts per Catalunya, I would like to thank you - and it is the need for a sanctioning regime to combat corporate lateness. Business slowness is an element of reducing the competitiveness of our companies. It is also the lateness of public administrations, and we have also agreed on a compromise amendment on this, but above all it is essential that today we can send a message to all the self-employed and to all the SMEs that this House will shortly be able to adopt a sanctioning regime equivalent to what exists in other countries of Europe and that it will enforce, above all, large companies, with payment deadlines. If so, we in this Economic Revitalization Working Group are going to change our vote and abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr Rufián Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u35	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. The first thing is to thank, as it cannot be otherwise, the work of my colleagues throughout this Commission. I will try to be brief because I believe that many of the ideas have already been expressed by the colleagues of the BNG, the CUP, Bildu, Junts per Catalunya and the PNV, and I will give some of the reasons that we have already commented on in the Commission the other day. I'm 38 years old and I come to life to know a couple of things. The first is that when someone tells you that of 'no left or right', it is that it is right, and when someone says that of 'we have to extract the ideology from all this', what happens is that the people of the left, the people we defend measures of the left, we end up being radical, radical people; instead, the people who defend measures of the right, end up being statesmen. Don't you? It comes to me to know this. That is why there have been beatings in this Commission, beatings, in this Commission and in this opinion. And if it is up to us together with the colleagues of the BNG, Bildu, CUP and Junts per Catalunya to act as Pepito Grillo, we will have to do so, because there has been a ghost who has gone through this whole Commission and this opinion. And it's not the ghost that Marx liked -I hope!-; it's the ghost that Robespierre liked, it's the ghost of Jacobinism, of recentralization, and it seems to us that it's very bad news. There have been two truths all this time that have been obscured and that the parliamentary group to which I am proud to belong, Esquerra Republicana, has always defended. The first is that the COVID-19, this virus, is not the name of an army, it is not the name of an enemy country, it is not the name of a nation that attacks us, it has no borders, it has no weapons, it has no flags. That is, it is no coincidence that we are caught the biggest health crisis of our time and latitude, because this has been happening for decades in other latitudes of this planet. If we get this health, humanitarian, social and political crisis, for example, without breathers in hospitals, it is no coincidence. It's not random. Those responsible have names and surnames, and are not enemies of a foreign nation or an enemy army. They have names and surnames. And if some of you needed to fill cities, villages, and even military hospitals, it was because there was a lack of health care. No more or less. Those responsible for all this have names and surnames, and it seems to us insufficient that the answer to all this is closed in a kind of Juan Palomo between PP and PSOE: I eat it and I eat it. From our point of view, three major measures are missing. The first, flexibility; being able to dispose of the surplus and the municipal remnant. That is, muscle to the main, to the first Administration to which will be addressed - already directed - people. It doesn't make any sense the other way around. Is that irresponsible? No, it's pure municipalism and we're an unequivocally municipal party. The second, an extraordinary tax, solidarity and permanent to the great fortunes, to the rich of this country, and there are many. In 2008 it was already commented, there were already rich people who said so. And if the 'Amancioorteganists', if the 'Amancioorteganism' is wrong, they can call it a forced donation. That those with the most contribute more, is simply redistribution of wealth. If the people of The Financial Times or De Guindos himself say that we have to rethink our reality, it is not because they have become Marxists - I hope! - it is because they simply know the world that they have helped create and they know perfectly well that either we change the rules of the game or we all go to the game. And the third, express regularization of all those migrant personnel who are working in denigrating conditions within the socio-health sector. A couple of comments about the European Union. The first: does anyone really believe that the hundreds of billions promised and agreed in the European Union yesterday are free?, can no one ever think that all this has a counterpart? We suspect this and the counterpart may be the following: cuts in the budgets of the Member States. And everyone can come to think that it is much easier to negotiate cuts in the General Budgets of the State in Spain with Citizens than with Esquerra. Here is the presence of Citizens in the equation. We hope we're not right. What would be very good, and that's the second idea, is that northern Europe - Germany, Holland, etc. - stop being the neighbor of the first one who doesn't want the elevator on. That'd be great. And that is because Catalonia, Spain, Italy and Portugal conform an indissoluble axis in defense of their interests. We're willing. A final reflection. The truth is, I think we got out of all this worse, if we got out. I'm pretty pessimistic. If I were to be told three, four or five months ago that we were going to get out of all this with a battle of flags on the masks, with people carrying the flag of Spain and messages against Sánchez, with others carrying other kind of messages, I would have hallucinated. But that's what's going on. From 'we'll get better' to 'Cayetana international'. That's what's going on, kind of 15M facha. What I used to say to you - that of 'live Spain', 'live VOX' - a gentleman with moccasins, swallowed up, now sometimes tells you - yes, it tastes fatal, I understand - an operator, even here of dust, coming out of a play. [[rumors]] [[laughs]] That's dramatic. When fascism challenges the working class, it wins. And that is the fault of the left, of the whole left, because the best antifascism - I repeat - is not only done in a square, it is done in the BOE, and here everyone remembers who has the BOE. I ended up with a comment for culture. When we had nothing left, when it seemed we had nothing, we had culture. It doesn't make any sense for bars to remain open - I think it's okay - and instead we're planning to close theaters or cinemas. Please, please, let's protect and save culture. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u36	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Echenique Robba has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, I would like to congratulate the whole government, and in particular President Sánchez, on the historic agreement that was signed last night in Europe. [[Applauds]] To your lords of the Dutch party, to your lords of the PP and of VOX, that although this agreement is good for Spain I know that you were going with Holland and that today you are sad, I give you my condolences. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] It is an agreement for reconstruction in Europe, and it is precisely the Committee on Reconstruction that we are talking here today: more than 150 representatives; 52 meetings between working groups and plenary; hundreds of hours of dialogue, negotiation and voting; more than a thousand amendments to the drafts. Except for the ladies and gentlemen of early-morning Spain, of VOX, who rose from the Commission to be able to sleep a little longer and who come here today to try to sabotage it, many people have worked many hours to get to today. And that is why I want to begin by thanking the vast majority of Members of this House, the technical staff of the Congressional groups and civil society who have appeared in the Commission for this great effort. As I said from this very rostrum at the beginning of the state of alarm, at the worst of the epidemic, I am sure that in ten years' time each and every one of us will look back on these hard times that have touched us to live and ask ourselves a simple question: what did I then, during the worst epidemic in a century, do to protect others and make my country a better country? What I humbly believe we have done in this Commission is to gather the consensus of our society and turn it into a country leadership. I think we would fall into a huge mistake if we read the final opinion as a sort of shopping list in which certain items are missing or left. It is clear that if this Commission opinion had been drafted only by my parliamentary group, it would have included the repeal of the labour reform of the PP, a tax on wealth or the regularisation of the migrant people who have experienced this tragedy with us, and it is also clear that none of the groups that finally support the opinions will give up their ideas or stop working to materialise. We are certainly not going to do this, but the opinion is not written by a single group, but it is an agreement between different people, and we think it is a good agreement. And why do we think it's a good deal? Because, as I said, it gathers a country leadership that is majority in our society. They are the minority who think that the invisible hand of the market fixes everything and that that is why we must privatise health, education, lower taxes on the rich and make dismissal cheaper. They are the minority who think that sexist violence does not exist, that climate change does not exist, and that the Earth is flat. Those of the saved who can, those who shout to the penultimate of society that their problem is that they are the last of society, those of selfishness and those of hatred are a minority. In Spain we are the majority who think that the only way to take care of ourselves, to protect ourselves and to have security, especially at the worst times, is from the common, from the public. We are the majority who know that there is no prosperity or future without a health, without an education, without a system of public, universal and quality care. We are the majority who know that there is no social justice without fiscal justice and we know that there is no solid economic growth without labour rights. Those of us together are stronger, those who know that the enemy does not come in patera but in yachts, those of solidarity and fraternity are the majority. We are a majority in Spain, we are a majority in Europe, we are a majority in the streets and we are a majority in the Congress of Deputies. That's what we voted for today, and that's what we'll answer...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u38	Mr. Echenique, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u39	Yeah. I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u41	That is precisely what we are voting for today and that is what we will respond to ourselves in ten years' time when we look back. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Medel Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u43	Society wants a strong, well-funded health system, because universal health protection is a powerful compensation for inequality. We need an efficient health system and for our group that means, first of all, a public system of direct public management with clear public-private delimitation. We want private business with public money out of public health, because if private companies are to have benefits, those benefits are removed from the healthcare staff or from the patient service. We want enough funding. We want control of pharmaceutical expenditure and that if there is collaboration with the pharmaceutical industry is transparent. Drug prices have nothing to do with the actual cost of the process and if there has been state funding, the State must participate in the determination of the final price. I think part of this is in the document. Of course not everything. What's not in it, anyway, we'll have to keep fighting to get it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Medel. I give the floor to Mrs. Franco Carmona.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u45	Thank you, President. The last decade, that of the 2008 crisis, has been that of gender and territorial social gaps. We have to come out of this crisis in a different way - we have already said it - in the short term, seeking to maintain internal demand, social policies, and in the long term, laying the structural foundations for economic reconstruction. Faced with the neoliberal dogma of less state and more market, things can be done in a different way, modernizing, innovating and betting on a model of development that takes care of the environment and people. This is why, from the economic block of the opinion, there is an industrial impact, the ecological transition, a more resilient tourism model, support for the primary sector, a fairer CAP, ending precarious employment, co-responsibility for care, territorial vertebration, ending depopulation with gender equality policies, multilevel governance or making the expenditure rule for municipalities more flexible. And in fiscal matters, for a truly progressive tax model that will end the fiscal gap with the European Union. We are not going to give up either the big fortune tax or the repeal of the 2012 labour reform, although we know that this will take longer. I'm done. Reconstruction requires clear objectives, quality employment, economic diversification, industrialization and public investment, as tractors in the strategic sectors of the twenty-first century. The unity of the countries of the South, which has now been seen with the European agreement, hopes for a different future. Our country is prepared for these challenges. Now it's up to us to take our part, do our part and be up to it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u46	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Saavedra Muñoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u47	Thank you, President. Good evening. This pandemic has shown very serious weaknesses in our country. Now, we must rebuild it on solid foundations for a safer future, with strong public services that protect all citizens. Social and care policies are fundamental axes of social cohesion, well-being and security; they are key country policies. Health, education, social security, pensions, social and care services, are the ones that provide security, those that protect us against real enemies: disease, poverty, vulnerability, and are essential for the quality of life worthy of people. Our country is well below the EU average in social investment. The deficit is particularly severe in care policies, which sustain the lives and well-being of people with some level of dependency. This task has always been carried out on families and, therefore, on women. The conservative discourse speaks a lot about the family, but it has always forgotten support for families in long-term care, childhood, housing, and this translates into overload of women, unmet needs and unacceptable levels of inequality and child poverty. We have a chance now. With these conclusions of the reconstruction we have the opportunity to grow as a country strengthening public services and social policies and with a welfare state that gives security, protects the population and generates employment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Saavedra. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group, I also have the floor, lastly, Mr Pisarello Prados.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u49	Thank you, President. I would like to take advantage of this brief time that I have simply to remind you that we arrived at this session after weeks of a petty, even hypocritical, offensive of the most anti-European parties in Europe, the party of tax havens, an alliance whose only unveiling was to prevent one from getting out of this crisis with a minimum of redistribution, of social justice, of solidarity. And it must be said that this speculative alliance has had the support of the People's Party, it has had the support of VOX, who have openly defended the arguments of those who one day yes and another day also offended the social majorities of Spain and Europe. In a normal country, this would have earned a strong rating: crime against the homeland. [[Several Members: Oh!-Applause]] But it is true that the troika's nostalgic club did not count on the fact that for the first time in decades the countries of southern Europe, the progressive governments of southern Europe, would put their faces in order to prevent those plans from moving forward, and as I know they will not change their minds, regardless of what they vote here, we will not lower the guard and, inside and outside this House, we will continue to defend the updating of a project that captures the best of the tradition of republican and democratic European constitutionalism: fiscal justice, the defence of the public, the protection of the working classes. And we know that these hardworking people will not forget who in the midst of this pandemic did their best to win rights, to negotiate with dignity and who instead allied themselves with petty interests by turning their backs on their fellow citizens. That is why I want to end this intervention by telling the members of the People's Party, and by paraphrasing Mrs Alvarez de Toledo, who I am sure, in the face of the disloyalty shown by the People's Party during these weeks, it will be the peoples of Europe who will take note to defend their rights. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u50	Thank you, Mr. Pisarello. Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u51	With all due respect, Madam President. Since the beginning of the work of the Commission for Reconstruction we have been actively involved - not slander, Mr Echenique - and we have announced from the beginning that this Commission was doomed to failure and was a trap. I was engaged in failure for two reasons. The most important one: because it ignored - knowingly - what was the problem that had led Spain to this health and economic abyss, which was not only, ladies and gentlemen, the epidemic of the Wuhan coronavirus, but mainly the mismanagement of it at the hands of an incompetent and negligent government, a negligence resulting, Mr Pisarello, in 50,000 deaths; a negligence that we hope will be punished by the courts of justice, if there is justice in Spain. [[applause]] And VOX has pointed out all this time that this epidemic has been the empirical demonstration of the failure of the autonomous state, a chaotic and confused state that has not even been able to establish a single and reliable database, and if there is no reliable information, ladies and gentlemen, what is there? Darkness, then mistakes, then traps and, gentlemen of the PP, bad faith, not good faith. As a trap it has been - and here we warn the Spaniards - to make them believe that it was possible in a month to rebuild Spain. This disproportionate, this hybrid, is typical of this adanist, childish left and serves a crude purpose of exculpation and concealment. Firstly, adanism has created false hopes for society. How will Spain be rebuilt after only a month of work? But what is this? This opinion, which is put to the vote today, ladies and gentlemen, is a farce, a trap, a decorum and a futile effort that evacuates recommendations that will not become a norm since they are not binding on the Government and the Government will do whatever it wants. You, ladies and gentlemen, are responsible for generating false expectations not only on the health issue but on other important issues such as concerted education and other issues. Secondly, the exculpatory maneuver has been very rude. It's about doing as if nothing had happened, as if it had all been a nightmare or worse, a huge traffic accident, with unrepeatable words from Dr. Simon. No, ladies and gentlemen, no, the virus has been the same for all nations, just some governments have done it better than others and the Spanish government, the worst of all. [[Applauds]] There have been intelligent governments, others less, and the least intelligent of all, despite the superlative opinion he has of himself, that of Mr Sánchez and that of Mr Iglesias. VOX has denounced this company of demolitions, Sánchez e Iglesias, which, while hoarding the voice, continued its insidious work of political, economic and social destruction of Spain. VOX was not prepared to continue with this pantomime in a Commission which served as a curtain - do you remember the curtain, Socialist ladies and gentlemen? - to hide this felony. Our party has dropped the curtain and we announced on June 23 that we were not going to be accomplices to such deception. How could we tolerate that while the Commission was working the government was preparing at the same time the unworthy bilateral table with the independenceists? And, Madam President, how will there be reconstruction if at the same time it is conspired against the unity of Spain? How's there gonna be a job? How will there be social inclusion without unity, which is a guarantee of the goodness of the economy, and at the same time a return to labour policies that are a guarantee of unemployment and exclusion is negotiated with communists and separatists? While the infidels relied on the economic reconstruction table, the Government began a tax hike to large and small entrepreneurs and the self-employed, which would make recovery impossible; that is, by taking advantage of the confinement to place their friends. There have never been so many Managing Directors plugged in. [[Applauds]] And speaking of plugs, what better occasion than our house arrest to fulfill Mr. Iglesias' golden dream and place it in the body that regulates and supervises the CNI. VOX believes that this appointment is a danger, a danger in our fight against terrorism and organized crime. In addition, the Government has taken advantage of this crisis to start the break-up of the single pension fund, the security network of ten million pensioners and twenty million workers who trust it, yielding to the usual blackmails of the usual PNV, and the Government has agreed to transfer the economic management of Social Security. All this is very serious, but what is very serious is that the Government has taken advantage of these harsh dates to launch a campaign of destabilization against the Crown; perhaps the Government is annoyed by article 56.1 of the Constitution, which states that the king is the symbol of the unity and permanence of the State. Recently, ladies and gentlemen, a funeral has been held for the victims of the coronavirus epidemic. There has also been a neo-pagan act attended by some of those responsible for us being in this situation, such as the President of WHO. They say they want to pay tribute to the dead. The Government should be ashamed not to give the actual number of dead. What does that central fire mean that it's already extinguished? Well, they like ashes, not the light of truth. And forgetfulness has been the original sin, the worm that has corrupted the work of the Health Working Group of the Evil so-called Commission for Reconstruction. It is a ridiculous methodological error to try to improve the health system if mistakes are not analysed. In fact, the index of the topics does not even show the epidemic. Everyone has said: let's move on, let's look forward. How do we look forward? If the virus isn't just behind it, it's here and it's in the future. The matter of the epidemic has been dealt with marginally and your ladies and gentlemen have preferred to talk about the neolingua, the consensus, everything divine and the human health, but, yes, that the recommendations given in public health do not analyze past and present errors in the management of the epidemic. How will there be adequate answers if the questions are not asked? It would be said that neither the Government nor the alleged opposition wanted the issue to be discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, the virus conditions everything and we can only recover our health and our economy if we put enormous resources into combating it. The best cardiologic plan is the plan against the coronavirus; the best oncological plan is the plan against the coronavirus; the best plan to favor tourism is the plan against the coronavirus. This is the leitmotiv of the conclusions we presented on 3 July. [[Applauds]] Since the first Health Committee, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have warned the Ministry of the importance of monitoring contagious diseases at borders. The Government remains committed to a ridiculous protocol based on visual inspection, a protocol which is inexplicably maintained by European bodies which, at the same time, point to its futility. And, in an irresponsible move, the first block of recommendations you have made, ladies and gentlemen, speaks of ensuring universal access to health care for all. That is to say, the Commission recommends a so-called effect that will not only be a source of infection of new strains of the virus but will break the weak seams of Spanish health, and that will have to be paid by the Spanish, yes, to those to whom you deny the tests and do not fund the masks that have dictated mandatory now, now, now. [[Rumors]] An injustice for our compatriots and legal residents living with us. [[Applauds]] The Minister is not here, they must be crying about Europe. We repeat the phrase we said to him in his last appearance: Spain will only be safe from the abyss if one of these conditions is fulfilled, either the virus mutates to more benign or you, the entire government, resigns in full. This and no other should have been the final conclusion of this opinion and this is the conclusion of VOX. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u52	Thank you, Mr Steegmann. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Pastor Julián.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today once again we want and must pay tribute to the thousands of people who have died from the pandemic. The importance of each of the tens of thousands of lives lost would deserve to be mentioned here today by their name and surnames, but the reality is that today we do not even have data to do justice to the true dimensions of this tragedy. Ladies and gentlemen, we also pay tribute to the health workers and all the public servants, and we also remember the thousands of people infected and those who continue to suffer from the infection today, because let us not forget that we are still suffering from the COVID pandemic and we are frankly concerned about the resurgences that are taking place today virtually throughout the national territory. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the criteria of urgency and responsibility that prompted President Casado to propose to the President of the Government that this Commission should be set up in Parliament. A hundred and a half experts and specialists have appeared in this Commission and we have also had more than a thousand particular contributions. My sincere thanks go to all of them and also to all those who have not been able to come because, as you know, the rigidity of this Commission has prevented it. I would also like to thank all my colleagues in the Commission for their dedication and work: Mrs Gamarra, Mrs Rodríguez, Mrs Velasco, Mrs Borrego, Mrs Romero, Mr Mariscal, Mr Garcés, Mr Echániz and Mr Santamaría, as well as my spokesman, Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, and the leadership of my group who have supported me so much. And, of course, all of you, each and every one of you who really wanted to help build this country. I am convinced - and I have always been convinced - that the recovery of our country must necessarily go through the recovery of the principles on which our democratic and constitutional system was built: the acceptance of pluralism and the willingness to live together, the faith in which together we could overcome difficult times, although listening to some would seem impossible. Those principles, ladies and gentlemen, have permeated each and every one of the great agreements that underpin our nation: the constitutional pact, the Toledo Pact, and I firmly believe that, guided only by those principles, Spanish policy will be fruitful and constructive. This is demonstrated by certain points in the opinion. It's true that others don't. We are not here, nor have the Spaniards voted for us - at least our group - to renounce our principles, we will never, nor our principles, nor our values, nor our ideas. If we wanted to change them, we'd go somewhere else. That's why we're here and we're still here, but the Spaniards also expect each and every one of us - of the 350 - to look for meeting points; maybe few, maybe five, but meeting points. I cannot understand maximalistic positions that go to the detriment of some of the good things for the citizens. To recognize that there may be and that there are, in fact, points in common should not embarrass anyone, anyone, ladies and gentlemen, but why. Or are you ashamed as a family or with your friends to think differently? What we have is a great responsibility and irrevocable objectives, which are to get out of the health crisis and out of the social and economic crisis that the pandemic has brought us. [[Applauds]] We are obliged to ensure that the effects of this pandemic do not jeopardize our social cohesion or compromise the future of the next generations or undermine the rights achieved or permanently relegate us to a disadvantage; no, ladies and gentlemen. We in the People's Party are committed here to promoting measures to strengthen the health system and to get the Spaniards out of the crisis. That is why we present measures, many of them already collected and others have had worse luck. We want to strengthen the public health and epidemiological surveillance system, because this, ladies and gentlemen, has been a crisis of public health and epidemiological surveillance. We want to strengthen the National Health System and have sufficient funding. We want health professionals to be recognized as the best that our health system has and that they must have better conditions and stability in employment. There must be a real transformation of the health system, a digital transformation, a real coordination between primary, specialized care and socio-health centres. The health system must be refocused on chronicity, longevity and care for dependence. A system of health research and development must be promoted, and we therefore call for 2% of GDP to be allocated to R & D+i. We also want to bet on the development of advanced vaccines and therapies in our country and enhance the bio-health and pharmaceutical industry, always acting with transparency. And, above all, strengthen, because it is necessary, the ordinary legislation on public health and health care. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the serious health crisis has brought with it a huge social and economic crisis whose scope we are in time to reverse. The best policy I know is job creation; the best social policy I know is job creation, and I think I am not wrong if I say that it is a priority to protect the jobs of millions of Spaniards. It is clear to everyone that we cannot abandon industry, tourism, the countryside and the self-employed to their fate. I have no doubt that those who are trying to move forward cannot be left behind, I have no doubt that the resources of the education system must be expanded, I have no doubt that the needs of the third sector must be met, and, finally, I have no doubt that we cannot understand the recent history of Spain without our European commitment; yes, ladies and gentlemen, where the People's Party has always been and where it will continue to be. Over the course of these two months, we have incorporated into the relevant proposed documents which undoubtedly respond to the problems generated by the crisis of COVID. I am thinking of the vaccination strategy, the human resources plan of the National Health System, the strategic reserve of critical health products, the creation of a real network of microbiology laboratories together with the National Centre, the calendar of legislative reforms or the elaboration of a technological map or a technological renewal plan or today of the National Agency for Public Health and Quality Assistance. Ladies and gentlemen, making a real act of recognition today that we can make proposals is also making an act of clear and honest diagnosis of what has happened. We have to learn from the mistakes, if we do not recognize mistakes, we will not be able to get out of the crisis. Because we have to understand and we have to make sure here today that there are things that have been done wrong and also that we have to put aside the ideological cards that focus on some things with a thick focus and others do not see them. I do not find it difficult to recognize here, of course, that the early response plan to the COVID that has just been approved with the autonomous communities is positive; man, I would have liked it to have been approved in March, but I will not say that it is wrong even if it comes late. As I am also satisfied with something we have been insisting on - right, Mrs Gamarra? - these months, that the State Agency for Public Health and Quality Assistance is already a reality. That is why we cannot do a policy of burning land, we cannot do it; we can do it if we want to, but, rather, we must not do it. It is true that there are proposals from the Group of the European People's Party that have not been addressed in all areas; in the area of health, a few could count on them, for example, requests for patients to be included in the health system, and I therefore recommend that they vote in favour of Amendment 168 and Amendment 65. Ladies and gentlemen, in the economic and social field, we have made many proposals, but they have fallen into a stalemate. We will continue to insist because we want to preserve our productive fabric, the legal security of our companies, also by disbursing them of costs and providing them with liquidity, extending the payment of ERTE, granting bonuses and tax exemptions or extending the validity of the ICO guarantees or the period of the linked credits. The measures proposed by the Government have seemed to us insufficient and we will therefore continue to advocate, for example, that there should be specific measures in favour of tourism, or that minimum living income should be linked to active employment policies, or that labour regulations should encourage employment and not destroy it. Our voice, ladies and gentlemen, is in addition to that of those who not only think, but also know that the rise in taxes is not the solution, but rather that it is damaging growth and employment. In the social sphere, we have also made many proposals in favour of the family, the elderly and our young people, so that there is funding in the area of violence against women. We also defend and will always defend freedom for education. We cannot deprive families of the right to free choice of school, we cannot exclude thousands and thousands of pupils who are in the concerted school; this school is set out in our Constitution. Or in the European Union, where we have made many proposals, many of which have already been collected, such as the recognition of the values of a liberal democracy, the recognition of the principles of the market economy, the guarantee of the sustainability of our public accounts or the assertion that the exit from the crisis will require a solvent balance between the public and the private, or the fight against unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I shall conclude. Two months, the last few complicated weeks. We have sat together, we have heard many different voices, we have debated and today we are here defending our amendments, our amendments, which defend our model of how Spain has to be and how life has to be or, rather, the living conditions of the Spaniards. And the question that will be asked is: Has it been worth it? Let me read you point 70 of the opinion. It says the opinion: In order to ensure that the National Health System, which has been subjected to unprecedented pressure, can continue to be so, it must be a commitment of all and that no one can escape, and that is what we are doing, to unite our forces to achieve a pact of state, the Cajal Pact in honor of Don Santiago Ramón and Cajal. Even if it's just this point, ladies and gentlemen, don't you think it's worth it? Don't you think so? I believe that yes, even though I know that there are other aspects of the document that I do not share, that have ribets not only maximalist but also populist, and that when they come to the House as bills or legislative initiatives we will not suffer from the fact that we do not vote or abstain. But what will it have to do if there are so many important things!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u54	Mrs. Pastor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u55	I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u56	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u57	Thank you for your generosity. That is why we reiterate our readiness to reach agreements and agreements of State that benefit the Spaniards. We are closer to the Cajal Pact and the European Union Pact, we still have to look at all the amendments. And, ladies and gentlemen, that's our compass. Do you know what the compass of the People's Group is? The defense of Spain and the Spaniards, the same one that guided us towards a fruitful management when it was tried to recover our country from a very severe recession. So allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to reaffirm our commitment to them I quote a few words that last week were pronounced in the act of tribute to the victims of the COVID-19 that pronounced his majesty the king. His Majesty said: Responsibility, moral strength, determination in the face of adversity and the spirit of overcoming the Spanish people show us the way forward to face and overcome the difficulties. The difficulties are many - that I say -; we will overcome them. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Pastor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u59	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, someone said politics is the art of what is possible and it is generally true, but sometimes, the most important, it is something else. Forty-three years of a historic day for this House and for our democracy will be fulfilled in a few hours' time. Forty-three years from 22 July 1977, the first day of the first parliamentary term of our democracy, will be completed within a few hours. Politicians who had everything to learn about democracy faced enormous problems with differences that seemed insurmountable. We owe this free Spain to those who knew how to make what seemed impossible just before, to those who knew that the responsibility that united them was much greater than the differences that separated them. Politics is dialogue - I have heard it many times and I firmly believe it - because the only alternative to the hand held is the closed fist. Politics is agreement, because any community, any future are built by adding and expanding, not dividing and confronting. Politics is responsibility, because what we say and do here, what we decide here has consequences far beyond this Chamber. And politics is conviction, and dialogue and agreement give those convictions the strength they need to change the world. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are facing the worst challenge our democracy has faced for forty years. Like forty years ago, we faced an unexplored terrain at a time that will mark a before and after in our lives. Like then, there are differences between us and, like then, we need an answer: union, responsibility, dialogue and conviction. If we then knew how to live up to a society that asked for freedom, today we must live up to a society that is giving every day an example of responsibility and unity. I would like to express my thanks to the parliamentary groups, who have been able to understand that this is a moment to join us, just as all the Spaniards have joined the pandemic, and to all the groups, which are striving to bring about the necessary agreements, because this opinion of the Commission for Reconstruction - as my colleague Pablo Echenique said - is not a party agreement or a government agreement, it is a country agreement, it is to join those who do not think like you. [[Applauds]] In recent weeks the Commission has met on 13 occasions. For the Commission and the working groups, more than one hundred and fifty representatives - as I believe all the previous speakers have said - have passed away from different social areas and with very different backgrounds. If in anything all the participants have coincided it is in that we need union, in that we need agreement. Today, that comprehensive agreement that called for citizenship can begin to come true; it is the responsibility of the three hundred and fifty Members of this House. Society has been able to set an example and deserves an exemplary policy. We understand this in the Socialist Group, and from that conviction we have endeavoured to bring these agreements forward, by dialogue with all the parliamentary groups. Well, with all but VOX, because he left the Commission; much too early to get up early, but not one amendment has been sent to the working groups or the Commission. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government has reached agreements with employers and trade unions. The institutions and the different parties have also understood each other in autonomous communities and municipalities throughout Spain. The European Union - and I will come back to that later - has just reached an agreement that opens up a new time. Institutions work. Politics, dialogue, responsibility and commitment have been and are the norm. I think it would be a mistake for the political forces in this House to be unable to reach an agreement on a day when the European Union has opened a new path thanks precisely to the ability to understand itself above differences. Historical agreement, that is the expression most repeated today by political leaders and headlines in the media to refer to the agreement reached a few hours ago in the European Union. Let me thank the President of the Government for the effort he has made and for the leadership he has shown. [[Applauds]] I do not think anyone in our country or in the Union misses the leading role played by the President of the Government of Spain at this historic moment. Our Union has lived up to the moment we are living in, reaching an agreement that lays the foundations of the twenty-first century community: more integrated, more coordinated, more co-responsible, more political, more social and more united. I have always maintained - and I think I have been heard in all the debates on the extension of the state of alarm - that we have to leave as a community in this pandemic. Today it is up to us to fulfil our part and do our job by giving the Spaniards a reconstruction agreement. I have always believed that values are demonstrated by taking them to reality, and it is time to move from beautiful words to commitments and deeds. Today we can bring forward an agreement to fight poverty, protect the unemployed, correct gender inequality, combat macho violence, help our young people to access employment and housing, boost investment in education, scholarships, universalize education from zero to three years, ensure care for dependent people. Today we can conclude an economic recovery agreement that includes an industrial pact and a reindustrialisation strategy that addresses strategic sectors - automotive, tourism, the primary sector -, an investment plan for SMEs and self-employed people that includes a pact for science and innovation, which drives the green transition, shock measures for employment, a commitment to social dialogue, the fight against precariousness, also by correcting excessive time; an agreement for Europe at a time when the European Union is taking a step forward. Today we must reach an agreement for health, because everyone from this rostrum - everyone, without exception - has thanked the healthcare staff for their efforts, and it is time for us to move from thanks to the facts, to political action, to help them in the work they do for all of us. Today, more than ever in these forty years, we need to live up to a moment that requires us to give the best of ourselves, because that is what we are asking of society as a whole. The Socialist Party has done and is willing to do what is necessary, and I ask all parliamentary groups to reflect on the moment we are living in. Look at whether we are doing and have done that this has been the effort of these weeks, especially of these last days of negotiation, which, of the fifty-seven transactions that have been presented today, fifty-four are signed by the Socialist Party. We have come to present to the various parliamentary groups more than a hundred transactions, of which in the end we have been able to present these fifty-four. By the way, Mr Bel, to the question that you asked me directly, I answer that all the transactions that are signed by this group with the other parliamentary groups in the House, whether yours, that of the Republican Left or any other parliamentary group, reflect the commitment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and, of course, of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Spanish society is acting with exemplary union and responsibility. The social partners have understood the importance of the moment and have been able to add their strength. The European Union has reached a historic co-responsibility agreement between partners. We cannot fail, we cannot fail the Members of this House. A country agreement must emerge from this session, an agreement of all and for all, an agreement to make what up until yesterday seemed impossible possible, an agreement to show once again that our responsibility is greater than our differences. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common and of the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u61	We turn to the point concerning the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 26/2020 of 7 July of economic reactivation measures to address the impact of COVID-19 in the areas of transport and housing. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this House to submit for your consideration the validation of Royal Decree-Law 26/2020 on economic reactivation measures to address the impact of COVID-19 on transport and housing, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July. With regard to the first block, transport, the main objective of this royal decree-law is to protect the health of workers and passengers in the air, to provide liquidity to businesses and to reduce administrative burdens. We are convinced that, just as transport and mobility were key to containing the pandemic and maintaining the supply of basic goods and services, transport and mobility must be key to strengthening recovery. Thus, this royal decree-law implies a budgetary, investor and financial effort for public and private enterprises. The economic amount of the measures for private companies in the transport sector and for the reduction of port rates amounts to 663 million euros. As for public enterprises, the rule increases Renfe's debt capacity to one billion in order to compensate for the fall in demand and boost the recovery of services and allows SEITTSA to receive EUR 110 million so that it can meet its commitments to build public works in the medium term. With this, the Government complements for the transport sector other previously adopted measures, such as the 800 million for public transport in the autonomous communities and the guarantees and tax aid to the sector to respond to the impact of COVID-19 and which are consistent with the criteria and guidelines of the European Commission on which the economic recovery of the sector is to be directed. [[Rumors]] Regarding the second block, this royal decree-law also collects a set of...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u63	Excuse me, Minister. I beg a little silence, please. [[Pause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u64	It collects a set of economic and social measures in the field of housing that ensure the protection of vulnerable families and groups. Some of these measures aim to increase the stock of housing for social or affordable rent in order to respond to the need for vulnerable population groups, encouraging public-private collaboration and encouraging the creation of a model that can be replicated. I shall now go on to detail the transport measures. In the case of air transport, the Royal Decree-Law makes mandatory in Spain the guidelines for the management of passengers and flight crews in the field of COVID-19 issued jointly by the European Aviation Safety Agency and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. In addition, this Royal Decree-Law incorporates a number of measures aimed at facilitating certain air activities, improving the gradual recovery of these aeronautical activities and the sector in general, one of the most affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Other measures introduced include the flexibility of the leasing of aircraft with or without crew used for fire-extinguishing or search and rescue and the adaptation of the concept of unmanned aircraft, drones, to European Union regulations. In the case of land transport, a number of measures are taken. First, the terms are set out to restore the economic balance of public service management contracts for the regular transport of general-use travellers by State-owned road, which has been substantially altered during the state of alarm by the drastic reduction in transport demand and the additional costs incurred by companies in order to preserve the health of travellers. This measure joins those previously adopted by the Government for the recovery of public service land transport, including the €800 million fund to finance the additional deficit of public transport for financing and autonomous ownership. Secondly, the rule also includes a moratorium of up to six months in favour of self-employed and self-employed companies on the payment of the principal shares of leasing and rent contracts for vehicles dedicated to the discretionary public transport of passengers by bus and to the public transport of goods of more than 3.5 tonnes of maximum authorised mass in cases where they experience financial difficulties as a result of the health emergency. Another measure included in the Royal Decree-Law is the three-month extension of the validity of vehicle technical inspection certificates with an inspection date between 21 June and 31 August 2020, which will be counted from the expiry date of the certificate. In addition, as long as this extension is in force, public freight and passenger transport undertakings holding a Community licence will have a preference for periodic technical inspection at ITV stations. The Royal Decree-Law will also temporarily relax the requirement of maximum age for health transport vehicles, allowing vehicles that have exceeded the age of ten years following the declaration of state of alarm to continue to serve until 31 December of this year. Measures are also being taken to speed up the operation of the transport arbitration boards and to avoid their collapse in a context of economic crisis, in which the demands for arbitration increase extraordinarily. Sixthly, measures are also included to reduce the administrative burdens on road haulage undertakings for both goods and passengers. I would like to stress that most of these measures respond to the Ministry's commitments to the road transport sector, represented by the National Road Transport Committee, which plays a strategic role for the mobility of our citizens and for the economic activity of the country, to which we must support from the institutions. Our appreciation, also to the work of the committee, which assumes the interlocution of a very atomized sector and channels and defends its requests to the public officials, whom we greatly facilitate the approach to the sector. Finally, the Royal Decree-Law also addresses the issue of motorway concessions. Being clear that we are facing an exceptional situation, the effects of which must be compensated in a limited and proportionate way, a particular regulation is addressed for three of the most frequent types of concessional contracts in the field of infrastructure: motorways, first generation motorways and service areas. In the case of maritime transport, the Royal Decree-Law makes the regulations more flexible so that recognised and authorized organisations can increase their support for the inspection activity of vessels and companies in order to speed up the procedures for issuing and renewing certificates, improving their efficiency and in support of the competitiveness of Spanish flag ships. With regard to ports, some of the measures set out above are extended to boost the economy and employment of the port sector and are adapted to the deadlines laid down in European legislation in order to give flexibility to the charging of charges for the use of port infrastructures. In this way, the port authorities are allowed to temporarily extend the reduction of the quotas of the harbour and occupation rates, further clarifying the criteria for the application of these rates, and to extend the period to reduce the ship rate to the maximum permitted by the European regulations from 1 March to 31 October 2020. On the other hand, it is impossible to produce an increase in rates by increasing the corrective coefficients in the cases of port authorities with negative profitability in 2020, since such negative profitability is not due in principle to a loss of revenue of a structural nature, but to a cyclical situation. Finally, regular traffic in transit or rolling stock with non- peninsular territories may be classified as sensitive, priority or strategic traffic contributing to the economic and social development of Spain as a whole, in order to enable them to benefit from additional bonuses. As far as public enterprises are concerned, the rule - as I said earlier - increases Renfe's debt capacity by up to one billion in order to compensate for the fall in demand and boost the recovery of services and allows SEITTSA to receive EUR 110 million in contribution so that it can meet its commitments to build new public works in the medium term. As for ENAIRE, the Royal Decree-Law includes a provision for it to lose its status as an instrument of the General Administration of the State. This is because this company does not meet all the necessary requirements to be considered as its own means and is also unnecessary for the purposes of this company as a provider of services exclusively in the field of air navigation and air transport. This measure will have positive economic effects, as it will allow ENAIRE to participate in public tenders, rationalising its regulation and improving its competitiveness vis-à-vis other public entities providing air navigation services from other States. In summary, the transport package has been structured around three key axes. Firstly, to protect the health of workers and travellers by ensuring the availability of essential goods and services. The second axis involves providing liquidity to companies in the sector to deal with short-term financial disruptions related to the coronavirus crisis using different financial instruments, including fiscal ones, in order to preserve their viability, as well as the continuity of economic activity during and after the crisis. The third axis concerns the reduction of administrative burdens by simplifying and speeding up certain procedures, ensuring legal certainty and taking into account the capacity of public institutions to speed up mandatory procedures for the reactivation and development of activities in the transport sector. The second block corresponds to the housing measures taken under this royal decree-law. It regulates a number of specialisations in the area or concessional rights for the promotion of affordable or social rent through collaboration between public administrations and private initiative. This regulation provides that, in such cases, the existence of a fee to be paid to the Administration is not mandatory, since its distinguishing note will be the undertaking of the successful tenderer of these rights to provide affordable or social housing, in any case limited. It also regulates the specializations of the instruments of collaboration between the various public administrations to expand the housing stock on affordable or social rent, paying particular attention to the duration of these agreements and to the system of determination of responsibility between the signatories. In addition, given the interdependence between administrative agreements and the right of area or concession, it is envisaged that the title of constitution of these agreements will not contradict that title. In addition, with the aim of optimizing the efficiency of State resources, the Autonomous Communities and cities of Ceuta and Melilla are enabled to allocate the funds of the State Housing Plan 2018-2021 from the financial years 2018 to 2020 that have not materialized in a financial commitment initially acquired or do not come to commit themselves to aid to other programmes of that plan during the period in force, so that they do not have to reintegrate the unexecuted money into the State. It also incorporates the maintenance of the status of agreed loans under successive state housing plans even if they benefit from moratoriums that credit institutions have offered or may offer on the basis of regulations linked to the COVID-19 pandemic. They thus safeguard other benefits and subsidies linked to the fulfilment of the requirements set out in the relevant State housing plans that they have enjoyed or that they may still enjoy. Furthermore, in order to homogenise the duration of social measures and to ensure that their withdrawal does not take place in a disorderly manner, the latest measures concern the extension of time limits which are deemed necessary and appropriate, taking into account the evolution of the impact of the pandemic and the health crisis on the economic situation of households. In particular, the validity of the electric social bonus is extended until 30 September to prevent its beneficiaries from no longer receiving the discounts and benefits provided for in the regulations. It extends until 29 September the possibility of applying for a moratorium on the payment of the mortgage loan, which is now due to expire on 5 August. Similarly, in order to avoid the succession of defaults on loans or loans without mortgage guarantees on the part of persons in a situation of economic vulnerability, the possibility of applying for a moratorium under the terms set out in this Royal Decree-Law extends until 29 September. It regulates the extension of housing leases that may qualify for an extraordinary six-month extension until 30 September 2020, maintaining the terms of the contract in force provided that no agreement has been reached between the parties on this matter. The deadline is extended until 30 September to request a moratorium or postponement of the payment of rent for housing leases in vulnerable situations where the lessor is a large holder or a company or public entity. With regard to the guarantee of continuity of energy supply and water for domestic consumers in regular housing, it is extended until 30 September. Similarly, for domestic consumers covered by this measure, the period of time of this measure shall not be calculated for the purposes of the time limits of the supply suspension procedures indicated prior to that period. Finally, it was necessary to clarify the definition of the situation of vulnerability, as well as the terms of the accreditation of the subjective conditions laid down in Articles 5 and 6 of the Royal Decree-Law 11/2020, which remains in force, taking into account the extension of the time limits of the measures provided for in the preceding points. In short, the serious economic and social situation facing households in Spain and the special consequences that this may have in a particular way on those living in rented housing justify the extraordinary and urgent need for the proposed measures, taking into account the impact of the health crisis and the measures taken in the context of the recently concluded state of alarm. Therefore, all these social protection measures aim to address an effective transition to a new normal that safeguards the protection of households, especially the most vulnerable. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen. In view of the situation and the widespread ratification of the constitutionally required reasons for necessity and urgency, the Government decided at the Council of Ministers on 7 July to adopt this royal decree-law. We are convinced that the measures we have taken to respond proportionately to the needs of the moment, adapted to the unique characteristics of each mode of transport and to the social needs in this area, must be taken. That is why I ask the House to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law, without prejudice to the fact that your ladies and gentlemen believe it can be treated as a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u65	Thank you very much, Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. Mr Gimeno, first of all, spoke on the question of position-setting by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u66	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Royal Decree 26/2020 focuses on a series of economic reactivation measures to address the impact of COVID on transport and housing. In our view, it is a necessary decree, with essential measures to ensure from the State the functioning of the transport systems and the viability of the companies in this sector. The COVID pandemic and the subsequent crisis have highlighted a substantial fact that we in Teruel know very well, and that transport systems are essential in the society of the twenty-first century. We live in the age of connectivity, mobility, where accessibility is a determining factor for the development of a territory, a neighborhood, a city or a province. Teruel is an isolated province, due to the lack of land transport infrastructure and a raquitico system of public transport by road and rail. The public transport of passengers in the emptied Spain is supported almost exclusively by bus lines, and, given its small number of users, it needs the support of various administrations, both the state and the autonomous, so that they have a proper maintenance. Flexible transport models must be designed adapted to a low demand but absolutely essential. We cannot leave isolated villages or comarcas because connectivity is not profitable. [[The Lord]] With the new normality it will be necessary to recover, but above all to modernise these transport systems. I put, for example, three cases that directly affect us. The bus line linking Teruel with Madrid via Molina de Aragón in Guadalajara had two daily services, only two daily services in a province that has no direct rail connection with Madrid. These two daily services have been reduced to just one and, in addition, with a schedule that makes it virtually unserviceable. We understand that this is how it isolates a province like ours and isolates the Lordship of Molina, a particularly forgotten territory of emptied Spain. The same is true of the line that connects Teruel with the Rincón de Ademuz, belonging to the Valencian Community, but which from the sanitary point of view depends on the geographical proximity of Teruel; or the line Casas Bajas-Teruel that used all users for medical travel and that has been totally suppressed, with only one service that is to be welcomed that is the line that connects Cuenca with Teruel, with schedules that curiously consist of a single bus to go and one back, and when one arrives to Teruel, the one who returns is leaving, with which neither can be used for medical travel. They are small details that make life more difficult in all these territories, especially in this case in the Ademuz Rincón and in Teruel. And why not talk about the railway service that we have with the Zaragoza-Teruel-Valencia line, a railway line with only three passenger services that, although they are repositioned, will obviously be insufficient. We do not know a country - it may exist, but we do not know it - where the third and fifth most important city, such as Valencia and Zaragoza, are worse connected both by rail and by bus. The two major Spanish cities have barely three daily connections, with schedules that seem determined to distance the final consumer or the customer. We believe that these long journeys must be encouraged and that they are not only to unite Zaragoza with Valencia, but to recover those that existed and that united, for example, the Basque Country with Alicante or Murcia. That is to bet to vertebrate the Spanish territory and to bet because the railway really serves as an element of development in these forgotten territories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u67	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. This royal decreeley, presented by the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, suffers from several of the defects with which the government of Pedro Sánchez has been prodigated throughout the last four months around the COVID-19. It is certainly not the worst that we have seen in the very long legislative series promoted under the pretext of urgency and extraordinary necessity, but I do believe that it is another missed opportunity to take palliative measures and to tackle with greater determination the economic problems for sectors that are being particularly hit by the constraints resulting from the pandemic, and we are seeing it especially in the field of transport and housing. Mr Ábalos has detailed the different measures of this royal decree-law, but I would like to pause for a moment in the third additional provision, concerning the tax benefits applicable to the Formula 1 Spanish Grand Prix, which will run until 31 December 2023. And it is that, put to open the flexibility in tax measures for this sporting event, the Government could well apply in the attention to other major sporting, cultural and social events that have very important consequences for the economy of those places where they are held. Ladies and gentlemen, the COVID-19 has been ahead of many events and shows throughout 2020 that have been a traditional date for thousands of people, which will have much more complicated their recovery as a sequel to this year's blank and which brings many red numbers to their accounts. It seems to me that Formula 1 should be given a tax treatment to ensure that the Spanish Grand Prix will be held in the coming years, but I call for a similar treatment and effort for those events of first line and of particular public interest, even more so if the Government invokes the legislation on the tax regime of non-profit entities and the tax incentives for sponsorship. I conclude, Mr President, because, in its desire for public reporting, the Government devotes twenty-two out of fifty-two pages of the text to the explanatory statement and the rest, just over half, to a part that will need the sieve as a bill to improve these measures proposed to us this afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u69	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Mazón Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u70	Good afternoon again. Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the Regionalist Party of Cantabria will vote in favour of this validation. In particular, I would like to thank you for having taken some of the measures, such as those relating to long-distance ship charges, which I myself transferred at the request of the port of Santander. That's why I've been asked to thank you here directly. In general, measures in the field of air, sea and land transport are timely and we will therefore support them. With regard to housing and, in particular, the rental, provision of funds and loans under the Housing Plan are directly related to COVID and these measures are welcome. It is not directly related to the reference to the surface right and, therefore, I want to take advantage of a couple of things to say. This must certainly be regulated in a broader way in the next rule governing the right to housing, in which I hope that we will be able to agree on a series of effective measures which, together with the promotion of public housing, regulate private supply at affordable prices through incentives and tax incentives, respecting market freedom and the right to property, since 95% of tenants today are private. So far most of the measures that have been taken these years have been quite ineffective; I know it well because I have been an advisor to the branch in Cantabria during three legislatures and I know how difficult this is. That is why new formulas must be sought and adopted that at the same time guarantee legal certainty and discourage housing from being a speculative asset. I think something new needs to be done when the market fails to regulate prices in an effective way as it does in other sectors, for example in industry, trade or tourism, and this is a basic right. It is quite clear that public housing needs to be strengthened to balance the market and meet the needs of those who do not reach private supply, but there is much more that can also be done. That is why I hope that in this Parliament of all of us we will be able to take measures that are more effective, truly effective in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u71	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u72	Thank you, President. As far as we are concerned, we are once again in this curious situation that this Government is taking us on too many occasions over the course of these months. We are thus presented with a sort of love and I cannot, a half stay; i.e., a line is pointed that glitters in the right direction, but that never ends up ending. With you you never get to a good port and we find ourselves again in a situation that we have already experienced, that of having little consideration regarding the actual decree-law that is being addressed. This is the case both with regard to measures taken for the transport sector and - to a greater extent or at least more intensively - with regard to measures taken in the field of housing. With regard to road transport measures to address the impact of COVID-19, I must say that they are necessary, of course, but they do not by far cover the measures requested by the professional transport committee to ensure the survival of the sector. And it is that the approved measures are actually designed to deal with the impact of COVID-19, but the sector has for years been carrying serious structural and economic problems, and these claims have already been put to the minister in documents sent by the National Road Transport Committee and have not been taken into account in this real decree-law that is being endorsed today. We believe that the opportunity could have been used to move forward in this area. As far as the measures in the housing chapter are concerned, we are in a similar situation, but more serious because the horizon that is drawn for three months is really worrying. That is to say, the measures are correct, necessary, but they do not go further and this section of housing is, if necessary, more urgent because, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of housing needs structural measures because the problem it faces is structural. That is why we certainly consider appropriate the mortgage moratorium on habitual housing, the six-month extension of leases, the proposed extensions to request payment deferrals or rent cancellations for the most vulnerable sectors, and we also consider positive the extension of the social bond until 30 September, as well as the guarantee of the supply of water and energy to domestic consumers until 30 September. In fact, more than positive is necessary, it is clear that it is necessary to do so, it is the necessity that marks the desirability of these measures. That is why our question is what will happen on 1 October, 1 November, 1 December and next year. We believe that we need to go further because the situation demands solutions that will only come from an anti-discharge law and a legal framework that regulates rents, issues to which the two partners that make up this coalition government have committed themselves and which, today, have not yet done so. We fear that the new reality is this: yes, and far-reaching measures aimed at alleviating or cushioning the negative effects of the pandemic and its disastrous consequences on the population, but they postpone the underlying problem without a real solution to the proposals. For these reasons, because this Government is once again on the surface and is again surfing on the wave of the real problem without going into the bottom of the wave, without going into the bottom of the issue, we will abstain in this vote considering, yes, that the measures, although insufficient, are necessary. We do so because we are aware that at critical times like the one we are experiencing the decisions that are made today determine tomorrow and, in this sense, staying where one was is not to move forward but to take steps back; staying today where one was is to go backwards and that, in our opinion, is a great mistake of the present and future in which those who consider themselves not saying left-wing but progressive should not incur, at least not if what they want is to reach a good port. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u73	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u74	Pick it up on. Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I will try not to go too far in a royal decree-law whose content has been thoroughly explained by the Minister and which, on the other hand, has a component clearly linked to practicality, effectiveness and to freeing from administrative obstacles and incentivising on an economic basis certain companies related to transport and housing affected by the crisis generated by the COVID-19. Firstly, I would like to highlight the measures linked both to the air, sea and land transport sector and to the railway sector, ranging from changes in the system of port charges to the establishment of safety measures to be adopted in the field of air transport by companies for their personnel and passengers, to moratoriums for the transport of goods and passengers, and an authorisation to Renfe and other bodies to increase their indebtedness. Secondly, there are other measures linked to the field of housing that seek to promote or facilitate the area right for the promotion of affordable rents, and then I will return to this issue. Thirdly, it brings together a varied list of measures ranging from declaring the Spanish Formula 1 Grand Prix as an event of exceptional public interest for the purposes of recognition of tax benefits, to amending the Intellectual Property Act in order to allow the so far forbidden participation of music directors in the governing bodies of the SGAE or the regulation of the commercialization of exploitation rights of the football broadcast that, like the previous measure relating to SGAE, has nothing to do with the impact of the COVID or justifies its urgency. In another respect, a measure that has been discussed little has been highlighted, namely the amendment of the Royal Decree-Law 21/2020, aimed at ensuring the effectiveness of the safety and health measures established for workplaces, the protection of staff, workers, and the adaptation of working conditions, the organization of shifts and the management of jobs and the use of common areas, on which it should be noted that, as a result of the imposition of certain characteristics in the sanctioning field, they become implicitly integrated within the framework of the employer's obligations in the field of occupational risk prevention. And I said I would speak again about housing because, without prejudice to the fact that our position will be in support of this royal decree-law, we do want to point out, Minister, a small paragraph or comment on a small question, but of significance. Without prejudice to our compliance with the purpose of the measure, to promote affordable rents, we must point out that some of its determinations and, in particular, the final paragraph of paragraph 2, where it says that this collaboration instrument may last for up to eighty years, and the first paragraph of paragraph 4, which determines that housing intended for affordable or social rental may be considered as public housing in accordance with the requirements and characteristics set out in the collaboration administrative instrument, in our view, could incur excesses incompatible with the division of jurisdiction of the matter and, on the other hand, may even conflict with the determinations of the consolidated text of the Soil Law and the Mortgage Regulation as to the maximum duration of the area right in the administrative field fixed at seventy-five years. Both issues fall within the competence of those with specific competences in the field of housing because they are directly linked to this sectoral area of autonomous public action, housing, in which the State does not have specific competence. Therefore, in accordance with the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, for this reason, we believe that there is a certain area of little jurisdictional clarification and, therefore, we request its treatment as a draft law, without prejudice to the understanding that the rest of its content is admissible and that our request is simply limited to a precision of narrowing or deleting those references in order to clarify the constitutional order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u75	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u76	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to the rostrum to establish the position of my parliamentary group in the validation of Royal Decree-Law 26/2020, no less than number 26 in just six months. It is clear that this has been an exceptional period that we have lived through, but equally clear is the fact that many of those royal decrees that we have had to validate here are patches and corrections that could have been safely avoided from the outset, if this Government had listened to the useful and responsible opposition. Minister, we haven't seen each other for a long time and I'm sorry to have to be so sincere; this royal decree for the economic revival of the transport sector and the protection of the most vulnerable groups in the field of housing is a totum revolutum; many measures, few answers. I would therefore like to know your plans in relation to certain matters dealt with in this rule. Taking advantage of the fact that this royal decree-law brings about the financial economic rebalancing of road concession contracts, it would be good for him to inform the Spanish about how he intends to attract the private sector to the necessary public-private collaboration in the field of infrastructure. Frankly, in my parliamentary group, we believe that all your attempts to have important private sector collaboration will be completely useless if a reform of the Deindexation Act is not addressed. My parliamentary group has tabled a non-legislative proposal on this issue this week, and I invite you to study it carefully in your Government because without resolving the problem of profitability and the concession deadlines, do not expect any private operators to go hand in hand with you. And since we're talking about roads, minister, do you think it's a good idea to sort out the work of an independent infrastructure assessment office? Because with the permissiveness of your colleague, the Minister of Finance, you intend to bypass the only technical control mechanism with which our country has to build infrastructure according to the criterion of efficiency. If that's a good idea, we have a bigger problem than we thought. This royal decree-law also includes measures in port matters. Taking advantage of the fact that you bring the moratorium on some fees, I encouraged you to bring in some rules that would contain a much more ambitious and global strategy for Spanish ports in the near future. The task of the state ports is not simply to increase their profits, but to manage the infrastructure for our ports to compete with other major European ports. And now that we are talking about ports, I ask you, Mr Ábalos, as a competent minister in the matter and Valencian like me, to stop taking a profile and to speak openly about the extension of the terminal of the port of Valencia, because while you, the PSOE and the PSOE Valencian - which governs in the Valencian Community - are marinez la perdiz, the lords of Esquerra continue to interfere in the issues of the Valencian Community; last week, asking for the halting of the expansion of this infrastructure. Tell us, minister, if your party really does, which, as I said before, also governs in the Valencian Community, bets on competitiveness and investment or, on the contrary, thinks the same as its government partners, Esquerra Republicana and Compromís, who want to continue creating legal insecurity and scaring investors putting at risk a key infrastructure for the Valencian Community, as is the extension of the terminal of the port of Valencia. It is impossible in seven minutes to stop at each and every measure taken by this royal decree-law, but I do want to stop at the most striking or most questionable. It turns out that this royal decree-law in which you introduce health prevention measures for travellers and workers at aircraft and airports is dated 7 July; 7 July, nothing less than two weeks after the opening of borders and two months and eight days after I personally, on behalf of my parliamentary group, presented to you and presented to your Government a comprehensive plan in this area. It is seen that the rule of this government is not only to be late while our airports are a collage of potential infected travellers, but to arrive badly with insufficient measures. I'm afraid we'll soon find ourselves here again with another royal decree-law patch that includes corrections and additions to put in place more measures. Minister, in order to be prepared, I would like to ask you whether your Government intends to promote additional measures in ports, airports, train and bus stations, which will allow us to react more quickly. Because we could talk, for example, about these facilities having the ability to do quick tests, even random tests to know statistically how many cases we are importing through our transportation stations; or, for example, we could talk about that app or tracking application that they said would start working soon and that we are still waiting, when we already have more than two hundred rebounds in the country. In short, Minister, we see that the Government has not yet put in place all the necessary tools in the field of transport and mobility to deal with the pandemic. This royal decree-law also includes measures in the field of housing. At this point we are witnessing what we have been warning from the outset that protection measures cannot be linked to those vulnerable to the state of alarm. We are therefore pleased that you are bringing these measures to extend the moratorium on the rental or payment of mortgage loans, to extend the social bond or to extend the ban on suspending supplies such as electricity, gas or water. It is certainly a great news for many families, self-employed people and companies that still need this help and are having a bad time, despite the fact that the state of alarm is over. On the other hand, to improve access to housing, this royal decree allows collaboration between public administrations and private initiative by facilitating the transfer of public land for the construction of affordable or social rental housing. In our parliamentary group we are glad that you are following the urban planning steps of those municipalities or communities where you do not govern, such as the Madrid City Council, but above all we are glad that you are moving away from the communist ideas of your partner in government. It seems that at last you leave behind that of criminalizing the tenants and intervening the price in the rental market by addressing the root problem, which is the scarce supply of affordable housing in those places where the demand is very high. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, listen to the opposition, but really listen to it. Consensus is not a slogan that you can shake to shake responsibility; consensus is to sit down and negotiate line-by-line if you need to...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u77	Mrs. Muñoz, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u78	I'm done, President. Thank you. The consensus is to sit down and negotiate, line by line if necessary, with those who think or think differently. Let us look at Brussels today, where, despite the divergence of positions, the agreement has been reached by putting the general interest before the partisan interests. I again extend my hand to you on behalf of my group to reach agreements for the general interest. Every time you have listened to Citizens, the benefits have been for all Spaniards, and you know that this is not an empty invitation. Minister, for all the above I inform you that we will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law, but we will ask for its processing as a project to discuss it and include amendments that will improve the rule. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u79	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Once again, we are presented with a decree composing various and unrelated measures and once again they are short. Some of them, indeed, are necessary, although, in our view, insufficient. Others, however, cannot count on the support of the BNG because they are on the line that we do not share to give aid to large companies for the reduction of their revenues in the period of the state of alarm, without taking into account their overall financial situation. Mertxe Aizpurua said that with you you never get to a good port, except the shipping companies because they do see reduced fees, which means lowering the revenues of the public arks. In addition, it is envisaged, for example, to rebalance motorway concession firms economically, even by increasing the concession period. Already amortized concessions, as is the case with the AP-9, should not count on new contributions of public money if it is not for their rescue or the elimination of abusive tolls; a commitment, by the way, that they have acquired with the BNG, really with Galicia, and that we are waiting for them to fulfill not us, but all Galicians and Galicians. It also draws attention to the use of this royal decree-law to, surreptitiously, stop considering Enaire as its own means by taking a step further towards its privatization. If it is really intended to be reactivated, it would be better to give it a workload and keep it in the public sector. I'm done. In short, it continues to bet on facilitating the survival of large companies with bonuses, deductions or tax rebates, but for the popular, small and autonomous classes the line of postponements and moratoriums - now extended, it is true - is still maintained; a necessary measure, but, as we said, insufficient, so that the BNG will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u81	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Errejón Galván.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I announce to you that we are going to vote in favour of the royal decree, but also of its processing as a law because we want to see, among other things, two specific issues which, taking advantage of the time I have, I will raise. The first has to do with the issue of transport. We agree with the measures, but we find a clamorous absence, which has to do with the conditions of the workers. On 23 June, if I remember correctly, the trade union representatives and workers on board and accompanying Renfe, who have been in a ERTE since March and who have since then been in uncertainty as to whether they will have a job to return to and in a somewhat absurd situation: the service is restored with full normality for tourists and travellers, the bars are open throughout Spain, but not the work to which they are dedicated, the cafes and the accompaniment on the trains. They're still in a situation of uncertainty, it's been a month since they told us, and they've been like this since March. We strongly ask you to address your specific situation. The second has to do with the house. We agree with the proposed measures, but it seems to us that we continue to turn around without addressing the fundamental issue, which is that, beyond the construction of more housing, we have to address the transformation of the Spanish real estate model: firstly, because it is a permanent source of anguish for people living in a housing emergency; secondly, because wages and social assistance are being eaten that could go directly to consumption. There are many cities - this, for example - where people get up to 45% of their wages in rent. And, thirdly, because it is a kind of black investment hole: instead of many resources going to invest in the productive economy, they end up in a low value-added economy. We need to create a legal framework so that investments do not always go to the speculative economy, but to the productive economy: green energy, the energy rehabilitation of homes or the knowledge economy. Before we wondered why not have a Spanish public laboratory that was investigating, because the problem of the Spanish real estate model is that you eat many useful resources that would have to be in the productive economy. Since the re-opening of the courts on 4 June, evictions are again taking place. Today, fortunately, four have stopped in Vallecas; yesterday, many others in Castellón. The Mortgage Platform raises two very sensible things until there is a housing law: first, a decree for the cessation of evictions and, secondly, that the empty housing that Sareb and Bankia have, in which we have invested public money, serve as a temporary social rental housing park for the duration of the housing emergency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u83	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u84	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law essentially because we told the Socialist Group and the Government that we would vote in favour if there was a compromise for its processing as a bill, because we understand that some aspects are significantly improved. In view of the commitment of the same minister, of course, they have our vote in favour. Some of the measures that you incorporate into this royal decree-law have been demanded by our parliamentary group. Therefore, as you can understand, we share them, although we understand that in some respects they are short, in others they are significantly improved and in others we obviously disagree. The facilities given to carriers for the moratorium on loans and leasing of discretionary transport and freight transport seem to us to be a sound decision, as do other moratoriums on the issue of housing. We have a very specific problem in Catalonia - I don't know if it affects other autonomous communities - in relation to the Technical Inspection of Vehicles because, as it is proposed, it is only because we have an appearance that will block the Technical Inspection of Vehicles stations. This is going to have a major impact on self-employed people and companies that have to carry out inspections of these vehicles, and here we are going to put forward amendments. Minister, we disagree with what you set out in Article 25. The truth is that it is very difficult to explain to the citizens, with whom it is falling, that the solution for the rebalancing of certain concessions is to extend the deadline for motorways. That's hard to explain and it's hard to share. I know that you are going to argue that it is the cheapest way to achieve it, but we want to deepen it. We disagree in the approach, because the Generalitat of Catalonia have also been faced with similar situations and are refusing to proceed with what is easy, to extend the deadline for motorways a few more weeks, a few more months, a few more years, sometimes for some reasons and sometimes for others. You began, in accordance with the compromise of this House, by releasing part of these motorways and we find it contradictory to the approach you are taking. My partner Errejón told you that too. A few days ago, here, we received the trade union representation of more than two thousand workers affected by the services on board and restoration of long-distance routes; of these two thousand workers, an important part are in Catalonia, and today are in ERTE. But the worst is that they do not have a clear timetable of what their employment situation is; a contract that has been interrupted, that is not perfected and that generates a lot of uncertainty. We ask you that this issue - like other issues in the railway field -, Minister, be agile in resolving it. Many services have been suspended, we have not recovered normality, but we should regain normality in the provision of these railway services. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u85	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u86	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It has been a long time since we warned that the lack of ambition and provisionality in the real decrees of the Government during the pandemic causes confusion and emptiness that must be corrected later, by means of new decrees. And here we are, validating a provision which I venture, which we will shortly have to amend at least as regards deadlines. We will not vote against it because it contains essential measures, but it remains short, very short, and for that reason we will abstain. This is our main criticism, the lack of courage and courage to face the reality that will remain to us after the pandemic crisis, which comes - and that is where we do not agree - from an unjust system, which was previous. We repeat to them once again: break the model of socialization of losses and privatization of profits; turn it back at once. With regard to some specific measures, such as road transport, despite the Ministry's initial announcement to prevent compensation to concession companies for any losses caused by COVID, the Government now authorizes them to request an extension of concession contracts to compensate them. The deputy of Junts per Catalunya has commented earlier, but we are going to interpret it backwards; as Catalans, we are outraged to open the door to extend these contracts for the concession and operation of motorways, which have generated millions of profits during the decades that we have been paying them, and which have been overly amortized. That's enough! That's enough! This is one of the reasons for not voting in favour. While they are rescued concessionaires, I suppose that in an exercise of quid pro quo in compensation for the revolving doors, the Association of Discretional and Tourist Transports, Direbus, continues to denounce the forgetfulness of its collective in all the royal decrees that this government elaborates. This is a sector mainly made up of SMEs and self-employed people, employing some 40 000 people and generating some EUR 25 billion a year. Please listen to your demands and resolve it. With regard to housing, the extension, not for the moratorium but for its application, is clearly insufficient, as is the extraordinary extension of leases in regular housing and as is the extension of the guarantee of basic supplies. The worst of the economic crisis and the housing crisis is yet to come. Autumn is going to be a dramatic moment in terms of housing emergency. September 30th is around the corner and the drama of energy poverty we will start to see when the cold comes, and then we will have to take new measures. Ensuring the effective right of access to housing and basic supplies will be one of the greatest challenges facing all public administrations, but we must be aware that COVID has aggravated an extraordinarily pre-existing situation. What will happen when the ERTEs are finished? They're gonna start the evictions. We have moved from the mortgage bubble to the rental bubble and the result remains the same: homeless people, empty floors and wild evictions. Ambitious measures can and should be taken. Good proof of this is the agreement between the Government of the Generalitat - with the Councillor of Justicia, Ester Capella, at the front - and the Union of Llogators, union of tenants, to develop a bill that regulates the prices of the rent and stops the speculative bubble. On the other hand, this royal decree remains short and poses measures far below the expectations of citizens and social actors. Banking was rescued, against the most elementary social justice, but we are unable to rescue families and people. How can it be explained, if not, that agents such as the PAH, that last July 7th demanded a royal decree from the Government to end all kinds of evictions until at least December 31st 2021, do not succeed, when it is common sense if we want to protect our neighbours, our fellow citizens? Since the resumption of judicial activity on 4 June, evictions have begun to be reactivated, you know that. In the first quarter, reduced to two months by COVID, almost 10,000 evictions took place, which continues to put us in an average of 200 evictions per day. Did you hear that? 200 daily evictions with the most progressive government in history, with the PSOE coalition government and Podemos. It cannot be, we cannot face this situation with patches, we cannot consider the protection only of vulnerable families because of COVID, but of all vulnerable families, because before the state of alarm already existed and we could have solved it. Recently, the report by Philip Alston, UN Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights, when the pandemic had not yet begun, was published, which warned that the affordability rate of private rental housing is one of the lowest in the OECD and that the payment of rent is an excessive burden for at least 40% of tenants. The urgent measures in the area of access to housing that he proposed are essential to us: retroactive payment, increased investment in public housing, taxing empty housing, advanced and flexible systems to control rent prices especially in large cities, taking measures to curb speculative access to housing markets by vulture funds, and the rest of this has to do with supplies to vulnerable and non-vulnerable families, which you already know. We know that we agree, what we don't understand is why they don't put it in the BOE, which is where it should be, and that's what we ask them: why?, what is the reason why this protective bag, which we know we share, doesn't turn into legislation? Anyway, I'm done because I see I don't have time anymore. During my fifty-two years of life and these six months I have been in Congress, they have endeavoured to explain to me what my country should be, what my country is. My country I decide, my country I decide. There is a political organization, called Esquerra Republicana del País Valencià, which is perfectly legitimized to speak on behalf of País Valencià, and my homeland, my nation goes from Salses to Guardamar and from Fraga to Maó, and no one is going to change it for me. [[Applauds]] But it is that, moreover, we are ecologicalists and protect any territory from the depredation and that is why we will continue to refuse to facilitate the expansion of the port of Valencia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u87	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament, Mr Mayoral Perales has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u89	One second, Mr. Mayoral. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent and let us listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u90	First of all, I would like to convey a fraternal hug to all people affected by COVID. This royal decree introduces some elements in which I think we should think about what are going to be the structural elements of the future of the country we want. This health crisis has put before us and ourselves a reality: the reality of the vulnerability of life, of interdependence and that there are essential material elements for people to live in dignity and to be able to face a public health issue like this. From day one, housing and supplies became a central element for public health, and I think that is something that should make us think about what future we want for our country, but I will talk about this later. I wanted to talk about three issues relating to the issues we are dealing with, which I think are important. Firstly, we believe that it is very important to strengthen and support public enterprises, and in particular Renfe, because, regardless of liberalisation, who will guarantee the public rail transport service in our country will be Renfe. Those operators who come, they'll come and suck and when they don't have to suck, they'll run. The only operator that will guarantee transportation in our country is Renfe. That is why we agree that we need to strengthen and support this public enterprise with determination, and not just with this, but we need to think about more to strengthen the public transport service in our country. [[Applauds]] We believe that it is necessary to strengthen the public enterprise, but the main value of the public enterprise is its staff, and we and we want to transfer our solidarity hug to the two thousand workers on board Renfe. [[Applauds]] Who has worked for twenty years in Renfe and for Renfe is Renfe, and one of the company's objectives has to be to maintain all the jobs of the people who have supported the company for so long. Secondly, we wanted to make a wake-up call to the ministry, in particular because of the need of the fourth crew member's maritime rescue service at the time we met. We think it's fundamental, the templates are demanding it, it's an important moment, it's an important public service, and we think we need to listen to them right now. Thirdly, and also referring to transport, there are autonomous governments that are making a very clear bet on vulture funds in urban passenger transport, which are opening the door to regulate to protect vulture taking money to Holland. We need to think of shared strategies from the headquarters of popular sovereignty to defend a strategic sector like taxi versus vultures that take money to tax havens. [[Applauds]] As I said at the outset, when we started this crisis, it became clear that the need to comply with the general observations of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which sets out the prohibition of forced evictions without a housing alternative, was a central element in addressing a public health issue like the one before our eyes. That meant that for the first time our country was approaching our international obligations in this area. There's a lot more to do. I believe that the popular movement is giving us daily lessons that have to make us reflect in this House on the need to be more ambitious in order to ensure that there is no eviction without a housing alternative. [[Applauds]] During this pandemic we have seen how the vulture funds behaved; we have seen how in Benta Berri, in Euskadi, in Donosti, precisely through a model that had arisen of land rights and protected housing, the protection of housing ends but the land right continues. So, what's going on? That during the pandemic is coerced from the socimis to throw the tenants on the street with threatening letters. They are not the only threats that occur from socimis and vulture funds against tenants; they are threatened with abusive increases, when they are companies that do not pay taxes in our country. It is necessary that, at once, these companies start paying taxes and that they respect the rights of the people of our country. In that regard, I believe it is very important that we and we understand that here we have a responsibility to the whole population, that there are strong and weak, and the State is to protect the weak. That is what states are supposed to conform to, and that means that sometimes you have to step on silence, and that means that sometimes you have to twist the hill to some people who think that housing is simply a commodity, just as you have to twist the hill to the water employer, who demanded that water be cut back to the people of our country. We must make it very clear to them that the problem is not that there are no cuts, but that there are private concessions of water for a service essential to the whole population, that we are not going to consent to the cutting of water and that supplies are going to be guaranteed to the whole population. [[Applauds]] We are fully aware that these decrees are only temporary measures and we and we believe that they need to be used to make a structural reflection that puts housing in the centre, ensuring that housing and supplies become an essential right for the whole population. And for that we must also tell companies with public capital, such as the Sareb, that it does not evict in a humanitarian crisis, that it does not evict in a health emergency like the one we have now, that this does not invest public money and that they have to change their ways of relating to the population of our country. [[Applauds]] And that means we have to start talking about how the public park is articulated; that is in our government agreement, that the Sareb homes have to be a useful tool for the articulation of the public park that this country needs. We know that it is going to raise blisters, we know that there are people who are not going to like it, those who have a plan, the plan of aporophobia, the plan for 250,000 people who live in precarious conditions in this country who are asked laws that condemn them from one to three years in prison simply...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u91	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u92	I'm finishing up. ... for using res derlictae. A democratic policy that defends the social majorities of this country is necessary in front of the Gorilla right. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u93	Thank you. Mrs De las Heras Fernández has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, for the hearing health of Members of Parliament, I will use another tone. [[Applauds]] The royal decree-law bases its urgency on the health crisis of COVID and its socio-economic effects on both transport and housing. Firstly, we cannot ignore the statement contained in his explanatory statement, which states that the response to the pandemic was structured around two constitutional instruments: the declaration of the state of alarm and the measures taken under it and the successive royal decrees adopted. Because, despite the fact that these are constitutional instruments, it is not the use made of them, because neither the state of alarm nor the real decree-laws can restrict constitutional rights and freedoms. Today we can say that freedom of religion and religion, freedom itself, freedom of movement, assembly, demonstration, freedom to express and disseminate opinions and non-censorship have been violated. Nothing less than the freedoms contained in articles 16, 17, 19, 20 and 21 of the Constitution; not one, but five constitutional freedoms violated by royal decree-laws. [[Applauds]] And it is the actual decree-law itself that we discuss today which, in its explanatory statement, affirms that the limitation to the movement of people imposed by the previous royal decrees has had a negative effect on the economy, making necessary the measures that bring us today. However, there have been no limitations at certain times or places, but total confinement. In other words, the Government abolished the constitutional freedom of movement by instruments not empowered to do so and, above all, that unconstitutional abolition is the one that has now caused damage that must be remedied. They've stopped people from making bread. They've destroyed the economy, gentlemen of the government. The saddest thing is that they had the solution. If they had closed the borders with China and Italy when VOX requested it, they would not have had to restrict fundamental rights or burden the economy. [[Applauds]] They can't rule, and if I'm wrong, they hide it very well. And be careful, gentlemen of the government, because demands for patrimonial responsibility are now coming that will use their own foundation of the royal decree. For their part, certain autonomous communities have been limiting constitutional rights by resolutions of their executive, such as the use of masks despite maintaining the distance of security. Massive PCR not, but mandatory masks, even keeping the safety distance, yes. Change of advisors who, by the way, are also the same ones who do not seem to give importance to the measures they enact, because Don Fernando Simón spent a good surf Saturday on a beach without mask and in a wave of rebounds. [[Applauds]] Going on to evaluate the measures in question, although we find various measures related to transport or housing, the fact is that, within the amalgam so prolific, we find tax benefits to the prize of Formula 1, the abolition of the partial exemption from the company tax to the port authorities amending the Law of Ports of the State and that of the tax on companies, the amendment of the Law of Intellectual Property or the commercialization of the rights of exploitation of professional football. The most strange thing is, perhaps, the conjunction of various measures related to air navigation, without any relation to the crisis or its impact. These changes constitute the opening of binding legal concepts that are governed by a regulated power to become a discretionary power, whose application today would be arbitrary; simplification of administrative procedures call it. That is to say, it becomes the Government's legal arbitrariness through the urgent amendment. As for the amendment of the royal decree regulating rescue activities, they justify it in giving the rapid response required by these emergencies. I would like to know whether they refer to the speed with which the President paralyzed the rescue work for his personal use, as he did in Mallorca when he withdrew the helicopter that was looking for the missing person to use it, or to the two hours that the ship was stopped while waiting for him because his arrival in Falcon was delayed. All of these measures aimed at enabling the Government to exercise wide discretion over air navigation or legal insurance ad libitum, lack any consistency with COVID and its socio-economic impact. What, then, is this urgency? Looks like they'd like to bring more Delcy Rodriguez bags. By the way, I do not know if I have mentioned that the royal decree is on the proposal of the Ministers Ábalos Meco and Pablo Iglesias. The first of them lifted the airport controls to allow entry to number two of Nicolás Maduro's drug addiction, and it is not necessary to remember who is being investigated by the United States for possible connection with this regime; draw their own conclusions. A senior, Mr. Ábalos is expressly empowered to make provisions and develop the content of this decree-law, which, according to the principles of the good regulation of article 129 of Law 39/2015, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, will have an exceptional character and must be justified in the enabling law, which is also not the case in this royal decree. In summary, the requirements of extraordinary and urgent need for the use of the Royal Decree-Law are not given. This totum revolutum of measures includes those aimed at alleviating the negative effects not of COVID, but of its previous measures, that is, of its harmful management - and thanks for recognizing it in the explanatory statement - and others that open the door to arbitrariness without any relation to the health crisis. They sing by conditioning measures that could be valid for the acceptance of those that suit them in a debate that is only entirely up to them. Democracy is based on the rule of law and the separation of powers and with this royal decree-law they are violating both. Let us ask ourselves how many companies have had to close because of their harmful management, how many real measures have been targeted at families and how many have been targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises. Chaos or me, De Gaulle said in 1958, and that's the same thing this government does: either they accept their partisan measures or we will have chaos because they will not approve the necessary ones. In VOX we do not kneel before anyone, even less if they mediate threats or blackmails. We have come to put an end to totalitarianism and that is why we will vote against the imposition, we will vote no to the royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u95	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Lorite Lorite has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, the Government brings to the House for validation the Royal Decree-Law 26/2020, a normative text that should be an instrument for the economic revival of the sectors linked to mobility, transport, logistics, construction and housing, which have been impacted very seriously by the effects of the crisis resulting from the pandemic. However, this rule suffers from an indisguised lack of commitment and a clear lack of dialogue with professional organizations. This royal decree-law, poor, insufficient and scarred, has ended up becoming the materialization, from a legislative point of view, of the lack of management of Minister Ábalos; in short, a norm without direction and ambition, in the image and likeness of the head of the ministry. Spain needs a full-time minister; you have been absent for two years from the subjects to be managed by your ministry, your priority is to exercise as secretary of organization of the Socialist Party and the whole society ends up suffering from this. In the area of air transport, dangerous uncertainty and lack of security have been created, with erratic proposals, such as the two-week quarantines for international travellers, which have led to tremendous irresponsibility. When rectified, the damage was already done and many potential visitors had found other tourist destinations. The president of the Community of Madrid, Isabel Díaz Ayuso, with absolute institutional loyalty, sent her the proposal that it be mandatory to carry out a PCR diagnostic test of coronavirus in origin. To this proposal, his only reaction was to present himself again in Barajas. Every time you visit the airport you mount an uneducating spectacle. [[The lady]] To the episode of the suitcases and their meeting in the morning with the number two of the dictatorial regime of Venezuela has followed a new episode in which, far from guaranteeing the health of travellers and workers, its only objective was to insult with this style that characterizes the president of the Community of Madrid, who was proposing responsible and loyally a protocol with which it could avoid contagion and epidemiological risks. However, this rule is enacted in which only the recommendations of the European Aviation Safety Agency, responsible declaration, temperature control and something as harsh as visual control over the passenger are introduced as health control measures for international passengers. It does not address issues as necessary for the future of airlines as reductions in the rates of AENA for landing and parking and those of Enaire for air navigation or the need to raise the State guarantee on ICO lines from 70 to 90 %. In maritime transport this rule provides for a series of minimum traffic reduction measures set out in the concessional titles and of the port occupancy and activity rates, but limits these reductions to the 2020 financial year when the current crisis situation will remain at least until 2021. The situation of loss and weakening of rail services is alarming. Due to the mobility restrictions imposed by the state of alarm it was necessary to suspend the movement of hotel trains, drastically reduce the supply of frequency in rail transport or the practical elimination of on-board services on high-speed and long-distance trains, affecting a total of 2000 employees. However, it is not acceptable that the services offered before the declaration of the state of alarm have not yet been replaced, something that is affecting the entire national territory, especially rural areas, as this vertebral and cohesive service is our country. You have sought to reduce even the wage supplements to Renfe's employees; cuts, cuts and cuts that you impose on rail transport using COVID as an excuse to eliminate deficit services. [[Applauds]] The demand for road passenger transport has fallen during the state of alarm by more than 90 % and the companies ask to set the limit for the circulation of vehicles in eighteen years, thus approving the rest of the countries of the European Union, fiscal moratoriums and postponements of quotas to Social Security, to which this standard does not refer. The taxi sector, Mr Ábalos, is not even mentioned in this normative text, discriminating against them in the moratoriums for loan, leasing and fleet renewal rent contracts. In measures relating to housing, the legislative text notes that the aid announced in the previous royal decrees was a mere product of government marketing without sufficient financial resources. Mr Ábalos, with this regulation you have again demonstrated your lack of commitment and sensitivity to the sectors involved, you have again made it clear that you are in other things and not in the management of the ministry you hold. You have to assume your responsibility and account for these unacceptable regulatory shortcomings as well as the turbulent issues in which your department is often immersed. Minister, a little more than two years ago you inaugurated a time rising to that rostrum. From here, with the relief that characterizes him, he filed a motion of censure based on falsehoods. You then accused the PP government of corruption knowing that none of its members had the slightest blemish. Today the shadow of corruption hovers over his ministry and is worth an example of what happens with the Avila road in his maintenance and maintenance contract. [[Applauds]] That is why you have to explain it, because every time the Socialist Party rules, the shadow of corruption hovers over its government. Give explanations already of this alleged new case Abalos or his silence could be interpreted as complicity. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Lorite. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u98	Thank you, President. The debate has started calmly, but I see that it has been warming up as other speakers have been speaking. It is true that the partner and friend of United We can Rafa Mayoral shouts a lot, it puts a lot of passion to his interventions, but I will admit that I prefer the screams of Rafa Mayoral than the silence that denies the macho violence of the leaders of VOX. I prefer it a thousand times. [[Applauds]] And I will admit that I am surprised by the words of some Members, especially the People's Parliamentary Group. Every time they intervene in this House, they use the same arguments over and over again. The minister is always accused of being secretary general, which is something that we are very proud of by all socialists, and that he does not devote time to the Ministry of Transport. [[Rumors]] How can you not spend time, have managed to derail the complicated transport situation and, at the same time, guarantee the restriction of mobility to prevent the pandemic from continuing to advance in this country? I wonder how he did it. It has to be Superman to have the ability to be organizational secretary of our party - yes, I was wrong before; nothing happens - and the ability to manage a ministry like this. I will recognize all the workers, especially the taxi workers, who gave the callo, who took sick people to hospitals and who see how the Government of the Community of Madrid wants to regulate against them. [[Applauds]] Mr Lorite, how can you have the courage to name the taxi drivers, who are every day denouncing the situation in the Community of Madrid? What world does he live in? I will also admit that I am surprised when the Communist and Social Communist terms are used permanently in this House and in this legislature to try to disqualify someone. Where is the legacy of Adolfo Suárez who defended Citizens and the People's Party? Where is the defence of a democratic party that also defends equality between citizens? I am a social democrat, but I recognize that every time I hear in this House certain terminology trying to disqualify or disqualify it, I do not understand it, and I believe that we live in radically different worlds. Today we have to congratulate ourselves because it is a historic day for Spain and a historic day for Europe, and that is thanks to the work done by the President of the Government and his entire Government to achieve something that was just. [[Applauds]] Today the Socialists are proud of this government, today the Spaniards are proud of being Spanish and, more importantly, today the Spaniards are proud of being European, because we hope that this crisis will not be like the previous one. Remember Mr. Rajoy's management? Do you remember how we live the crisis? Moreover, when the People's Parliamentary Group speaks here of trains, I recognize that as an extremist I start to tremble. Did the People's Party defend the trains when it cut down in most of this country the services that guaranteed equal opportunities? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, you cannot set an example by at least not coming here and trying to give lessons. They've been talking about the workers on board Renfe's service. We too defend them; moreover, the minister was involved so that in the state of alarm, in a very complex situation, when they could be seen with a contract that ended, that contract would be extended. I remember the time of Iñigo de la Serna with the conflict of the workers of Ferrovial. When we ask the minister to intervene, do you know what he told us, Mr. Lorite? He told us that it was a problem between companies and workers, that the government had nothing to do with it. That is why I am surprised by some of the speeches made by the leaders of the People's Parliamentary Group in this House. Looks like they're from another world. At times one has the feeling that they have landed from Mars in recent times and they have not realized that we have experienced a pandemic, that we are in a very complicated situation and that what touches politics today is to hoist the shoulder and not take the opportunity, as they have tried at this time, to overthrow the government. Do you know what this government was in? Do you know what this ministry was in? In trying to bring down the virus. What we ask you to do is to join us and work with us because there is still a lot of work to be done. The Spanish deserve a responsible government and an opposition worthy of being representative of all of them, and I sincerely believe that at this time they have not been and that many Spaniards are not proud of what they have seen in this House. That is why we should not be ashamed of the screams, but rather ashamed of the policies. In the previous crisis, while this Government has devoted itself to trying to rescue families and protect them from evictions, Mariano Rajoy's Government did what it did was rescue the banks. There is a big difference with this left-wing government. We know they don't like it, but they assume that there are three years left in the legislature and they take the position of opposition. You can try to tie your shoulder. As I said, I would like to conclude by giving a recognition to all those workers who have given their faces, to the stowers who have been unloading ships every day so that we could all have all the necessary goods, those stowers to which the Government of the People's Party and Íñigo de la Serna never wanted to listen. We are very grateful for the work that the truckers have done in this country; we know that they have developed it in a situation of many difficulties and we also know that we must listen to them. This Government is constantly listening to the National Road Transport Committee. Yeah, he does. Is it true that not all the measures that could have been taken have been taken? That's right. Is it true that much remains to be done? That's right. But I want to send the people who depend on the transport sector a clear message for the future: this government and this party will continue to work to ensure that they have certainty about what can come. Individuals, businesses and families need future certainty. This Government will work with them, as it has been working to address each of the problems that have arisen and are emerging. In addition, it will not shake our pulse to remove any element that may contain any kind of corruption. They have taken the issue of corruption out here, and the People's Party has taken it out to give lessons. The same day the news came out, the ministry separated the official and opened an investigation. Can you imagine the Rajoy People's Party doing that? Can you imagine the People's Party condemning corruption? Can you imagine the People's Party attacking something that has made us feel unproud, to be part of a country in which his Government was condemned for corruption? [[Applauds]] Honestly, I don't think so. I end by thanking, as I said, all those who have made it possible for things to continue to work. I ask for coherence, I ask for understanding and I ask for empathy, which we will try to have with all the sectors that suffer from this situation. We will continue to work to solve your problems. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u100	We now turn to the agenda item on the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the declaration of the activities of the excellent Members. The President of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies, Nasarre Oliva, has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u101	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my capacity as chairman of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies, I am speaking for the presentation of the opinion on the declarations of activities made by the members of this House. But before assessing the substance of the matter that we are voting on today, I would like to apologize on behalf of the Commission for the delay in the conclusion of this opinion. The Committee on the Statute of Deputies planned to approve this work in mid-March, but the global health crisis of COVID-19 prevented us from meeting the timetable. Subsequently, the procedure for another opinion in this Commission, which was submitted to the plenary a few weeks ago, was also further delayed. I deeply regret the setbacks you have brought to your ladies and gentlemen. The opinion before me today was adopted unanimously at the Commission meeting held on 25 June. At that meeting, the statements made by the 350 deputies who at that time were part of the Congress were delivered. All statements submitted in the register of the House until 25 June this year have been included in that opinion. The document that is put to the vote today has the same structure as the opinions on activities that have been processed in past legislatures. This structure has a first paragraph which includes the general criteria which the Committee on the Statute of Deputies considers should be applied to certain causes of incompatibility of Members. These criteria, as they could not otherwise be, are issued in development of the provisions of articles 155 to 160 of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime, which are the legal basis for the work of the Commission in relation to its declarations of activities. The Statute Commission agreed to maintain the interpretative criteria agreed upon in the past legislatures on issues such as the compatibility of the exercise of parliamentary function with the status of member of the Government, the presence in governing bodies of political parties, literary and artistic production or membership of local corporations, for setting them some of the most common examples. It has also been decided to continue on the same terms with the teaching activities or the performance of activities in the private sector, such as the practice of lawyers. However, as a result of the new realities we face and the evolution of our society, we must adapt. For this reason, new general criteria have been added concerning activities that were not previously formulated, for example, considering that the receipt of maternity or paternity aid in its various forms must be compatible with the status of Member insofar as they are regulated aid granted through an objective procedure and which is not in any way related to the parliamentary activity of politicians. The same has been agreed on the receipt of aid in its various forms linked to the situation of dependency, widowhood or who are caused by having been victims of terrorism. I follow the structure of the opinion. In the second subparagraph, all the activities declared by the honourable Members are individually listed, in some cases indicating the limits to which the declaration of compatibility should be submitted. An extremely important issue is the absolute objectivity and impartiality with which the analysis of the statements of the activities presented has been carried out. The Commission's debate did not take place at the hearing of one or other Member, but the first thing that was done was to lay down the general criteria, which apply to us all. This opinion, ladies and gentlemen, is objective, adapting to the current reality and in each of you it is the result of the strict application of the general criteria, which were set by the Commission before discussing the specific cases. As you can see, the opinions issued on the 350 members of the House are compatible. In some cases it is a purely simple compatibility and in other cases conditional compatibility, such as in the case of the exercise of the legal profession, which, as you know, cannot lead to the collection of revenue from public administrations. The absence of opinions of incompatibility is the result of the good work during these months of the services of the House. In this respect, on behalf of the Commission, I would like to highlight it. These services have met with a large number of Members to ask for clarification on some of the compatibility requests made. Your ladies and gentlemen have had to renounce the activities they were carrying out at the time of taking possession in order to be able to adapt their situation to the legal requirements imposed on us all by law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank you at this point for your willingness. Whenever they have been required in connection with their declarations of activities, I am aware that they have shown the maximum possible cooperation. Before concluding, I would like to convey my appreciation to Mrs García Tejerina, Vice-President of this Commission. I wish you the best in your new destiny. I conclude by thanking you again for your cooperation with the work of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies in drawing up this opinion. I would also like to take this opportunity to place this Commission, your Commission, at the full disposal of your ladies and gentlemen, to resolve any doubts or questions that may arise from them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-21-CD200721.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nasarre. No parliamentary group will speak on this point, so we shall suspend the sitting until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much and good afternoon. It was eight and twenty minutes of the night.
