ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u1	The meeting was called to order. We begin with the item on the agenda concerning the debate on the full proposal of the Cantabria Parliament for the reform of Organic Law 8/1981 of 30 December 1981 on the Statute of Autonomy for Cantabria, for the elimination of the suffocation of Members of Parliament and of the President and Councillors of the Government. The President of the Parliament, Mr Joaquín Gómez, who we welcome, and an extensive delegation of Members from different political groups, accompany us in the rostrum. We are also joined by three representatives of the Parliament of Cantabria who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom I welcome on behalf of the House. For the presentation of the initiative, the three speakers will have the floor in succession. Firstly, Mr Pedro José Hernando García of the Regionalist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with an exciting memory of Rafael de la Sierra, the first regionalist deputy who spoke in this House back in 1998 and who today will be watching us from somewhere in the universe and will be proud that a reform that he promoted and voted for in the Parliament of Cantabria will be defended by his party and can be voted for by our first national deputy, José María Mazón. I would also like to take this moment to make a reference and a thank you to the President of the Cantabria Parliament, who on a sad day like today, having experienced a sad family event, accompanies us in this House on behalf of all the cantabrians. Times have changed a lot, not only since 1998, but since 2018, when I first came here to defend the need for this reform. We live in a different world, in a society that has changed profoundly, but, in essence, the reform remains in force. What we are presenting today is a reform... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u4	... of the Statute of Autonomy for Cantabria, with the aim of eliminating the procedural forum envisaged for members of Parliament, members of the Government and its President. The cantabres want to exercise our power of self-government today, making the constitutional equality of article 14 and the right to a judge predetermined by the law of 24.2 real and effective, so that belonging to an institution such as Parliament does not make a difference with the rest of the citizens. Our statute contains, in Articles 11 and 20, the system of parliamentary immunity. We are not talking about eliminating the inviolability, immunity, rights and prerogatives of deputies in the face of detention and their duties, we are only talking about the judicial process, which is also not an element that has been unfailingly linked to representative status, but which, without just precedent in comparative law, appears for the first time in Spanish law in the Canovist Constitution. And I must be as critical as I was in 2018, ladies and gentlemen. The reform that we are presenting today has to go beyond that. You have to wonder why Spain has thousands of outlaws: police officers, judges... Why even you, ladies and gentlemen, in Article 71 of the Constitution, have a stumbling block that goes beyond the Parliament of Cantabria through the figure of the supplication. In any case, if you decide that these issues are not a priority, I would ask you to vote in favour of taking this whole initiative into consideration in the vote, allowing the Cantabria Parliament to make progress, thanks to its vote, towards a statute of autonomy which respects this criterion. I used to say that a lot of things have changed. Bob Dylan says in one of his best-known songs: Let's go Senators and Congressmen; please pay attention to the call; there's a battle out there and it's atrocious; it'll soon shake your windows, make your walls vibrate, because times are changing. Obviously, times are changing. COVID has been a challenge for the autonomous state and I believe that the autonomous state has responded reasonably well, but it has been shown that the relations between the state and the autonomous communities and between them and also the statutory texts do not necessarily meet the needs of the autonomous communities, and it is necessary to incorporate legal instruments that respond to the emergency problems that are emerging in the daily management of an autonomous community such as ours, such as Cantabria. I am referring to the figure of the decree-laws, which is a legislative legal instrument that is not now included in our statute of autonomy and which I encourage all of you, the Members of this House, to introduce by amendment in our statute of autonomy, in the reform that is now beginning. The delay in the process sometimes has these possibilities. Andalusia, Aragon, Balearic Islands, Castile and León, Catalonia, Extremadura, Valencia, Murcia and Navarre have already incorporated it and Madrid is reforming its statute to do so. You now have the opportunity, in the process of adopting this organic law, to incorporate those amendments. They approve the proposal to abolish the embargoes in this whole debate and amend the reform to include an article enabling the self-government institutions of Cantabria to issue, validate and convert decree-laws. The cantabres will give good use of the time that has passed and, therefore, we will support a reform in which we all agree. Eliminate differences in judicial forum, equip us with an agile and useful tool to respond to situations of urgent need. Be that House that represents us all. As Adolfo de Posada said in his studies on the parliamentary regime of Spain: be the mirror of the country and reflect his aspirations, our aspirations, those of all the cantabres and cantabres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando García. Secondly, to present the initiative for debate, Mr Iñigo Fernández García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u6	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank you for the kindness and hospitality with which this delegation from the Cantabria Parliament has been received, and I would like to make a special mention to our President, who is now living in a difficult family situation; I particularly appreciate his behaviour at the head of his duties today in this situation which I am commenting on. A hug, Joaquin, and thank you so much for being with us. I want to do two thoughts. First, we are promoting the reform of the Autonomy Statute for Cantabria in order to eliminate the outbursts. It has been said to the satisfaction that it was a privilege of Members. We've never considered it that way. At the time, the Constitution and the statutes contained this formula. Then, over time, the citizens have been calling for this reform to eliminate the outbursts and, in response to that demand from the citizens, we have promoted this reform. A second reflection, which has already been pointed out: there are 10 000 outposts in Spain. If this reform is dealt with favourably, there will still be 9950, because it eliminates only 45 public posts. I don't tell anyone what to do, God frees me, but I do ask his lordships for a reflection and that they value whether we are going along the right path by eliminating strangulations in some places and not in others or in some situations and not in others. Having said that, I want to say that this process has been very long; it started in 2015, we discussed the consideration of this reform of the statute right here, in this room, in March 2018 and, as a result of the circumstances that have occurred in Spain subsequently - motion of censure, electoral summons, subsequent electoral summons again - this has been stuck and has been so many years. Let's hope it's finally approved this time. It is nobody's fault, it has not been anyone's fault, we also know what parliamentary times are, we know them, but the reality is that at this point in time when Cantabria presents in this House the reform of the Statute of Autonomy seems not to be the most worrying issue in our society. The ultimate justification for this reform was always to meet the demands of the citizens who ask politicians to be the same as them, to ask us to think like them, to feel like them, and to have the same concerns as them; in the end, they ask us to represent them. That is why we have promoted this reform of the statute. But, look, I've talked about the time it's taken to process and the time it comes, I've talked about a reform of a statute to look more like citizens and represent them better. Today is September 8th, party in Asturias and Extremadura and is the day on which more local parties are held in Spain. Today is the Virgin of the Port, the feast of Santoña, of my people, of the village of the Anchovies. Today Santoña is confined. [[Laughter]] Laugh. Today Santoña is confined, isolated, with a sanitary cord. Yesterday, September 7, classes have been opened and eight hundred children have been introduced to twenty-eight classes. It's not to laugh, it's not to laugh. I feel very bad talking about politics here today when other things happen on the street, when people have other concerns and very powerful. I know it's nobody's fault this coincidence, but I feel really bad today. You also know that the pandemic is nobody's fault, but I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, this country is broken. [[Rumors]] Although some people are made to laugh, this country is shattered. It is nobody's fault, but things could have been done a little better, seen him come, acted in time; in Spain it became late and evil and, moreover, it was done with arrogance, with pride, without humility. What we are proposing today is something that seeks to make politicians look more like the citizens we represent, that we understand them better, that we understand them better. I also ask for a reflection on how things are going and I ask the Government of Spain to manage this a little bit better and, above all, with a little humility. That is what I ask, ladies and gentlemen, which is what concerns people; not our things that affect us, but what affects them all. I insist, today my neighbors are locked at home on the day of their patroness, the day of the Virgin of the Port, and I think the least we can have towards them is a little empathy and a little humility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u7	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. I have the floor, lastly, Mrs Noelia Cobo Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, President of the Cantabria Parliament, for leading the expedition and, above all, in these difficult moments that you are going through, but you will certainly get it with strength. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The spokespersons appointed by the Parliament of Cantabria today came to this rostrum to bring the reform of Organic Law 8/1981, of 30 December, of the Statute of Autonomy, for the elimination of the suffocation of Members of Parliament and of the President and Councillors of the Government of Cantabria. This is a reform of two articles, agreed by our autonomous Parliament on 4 December 2017, which we are submitting to you today. It is a far-reaching reform for three reasons: the parliamentary unanimity achieved in the proposal, the relevance of reforming a rule of a statute of autonomy and the importance of the content of the reform itself, the abolition of stalemate. First of all, the unanimity and consensus achieved is a circumstance that, in the current situation that we are going through, I consider of paramount importance to our region and, of course, to our country. I have no doubt that the civic mandate that the citizens we represent most clearly transfer to us requires responsibility, determination and also the ability to reach agreements to bring back the complex moment that we have to live. It is precisely because of this capacity, that of those groups present in the Cantabrian Parliament in December 2017 and also of those that today make up the parliamentary arch of our autonomous community, that this statutory reform comes, debated and agreed from opposing ideologies and from disparate sensibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, secondly, the circumstances which legitimised this special condition of the strangulations have changed over the years. I sincerely believe that the logical evolution of the uses and values of a society must also be the subject of the consequent legislative reforms in order to adapt, wherever necessary, the legal framework to that social progress. It is, in my opinion, a question of dealing with the changes with serenity, responsibility, consensus and a desire for public service, and in this case it is the Statute of Autonomy itself that requires this adaptation, because our statute must remain unquestionable, a place of encounter between the different generations of cantabres and cantabres. With the reform we are proposing today, I am confident that we are moving in that direction. Thirdly, the importance of this proposal also lies in the very context of reform, eliminating the outbursts of the members of the legislative and executive powers of our land, an exceptional figure that today loses its meaning. At the time of the establishment, it could be understood that submitting to a collegiate decision of the higher courts was in keeping with the political moment of - if I may say so - the resumption of the rule of law after the adoption of the 1978 Constitution. But, today, maintaining the embargoes, when we find ourselves in a state of full law, where judicial independence is overly guaranteed, is a contradiction, ladies and gentlemen. The guarantee of the exercise of popular representation without external interference is over-guaranteed. On the other hand - I am finishing - it seems obvious to me that this condition produces today in the cantabres and in the cantabres, in the Spanish, in the Spanish, of 2020 the feeling that there is a separation between the citizens and those who represent them. That is why it is necessary for the members of the Legislative and Executive branches to be - let us be - judicially equal to those we represent. The elimination of outbursts will help to shift the commitment of some political parties to the strengthening of this ideal of democracy and to improving the confidence of citizens in institutions. That is why I sincerely believe that the legislative change we are proposing today is sensible and necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, I am nothing different from those I represent. I am only a normal person who, like many of you, driven by the vocation of public service, and thanks to the trust of my colleagues, temporarily occupies a public responsibility and guaranteeing my right to exercise that responsibility, I ask you to give your support to a reform that will make us all more equal before the law, because unity is, ladies and gentlemen, the essence that guarantees and, above all, that magnifies our democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cobo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In turn, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u10	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament in Cantabria, welcome to this House. It is a great pleasure to see you here today, precisely because it is a feast in Santoña. And I say this not because of him, but because it happens that the three speakers are from Santoña and have been able to escape from the confinement on such an important day. Let's hope it's over soon. As you all know, this is a very debated issue not only in this Congress, in the Senate and in the autonomous assemblies, but also in all the parliaments of the world and it is difficult to say something new. The main arguments in favour and against have also been made here many times and, moreover, I believe it is written. There is a huge bibliography, both historical and political and legal, on the subject. The point is that the main controversy that existed was to confront the equality of citizens before the law and the defence of institutions when the laws themselves were used against them. And, like almost everything in life, everything has two faces. Without going into detail, it is enough to say as an example that politicians are argued that they will be treated favourably if judges were favored in their appointments, but the opposite is not said, which is when the case would have been by a political rival, or to interpret that a privilege is something irrevocable and outweighs the right of an ordinary judge determined by law. The fact is that, without prejudice to the cases that might seem justified - today I am not going to go into detail here - there is a popular feeling in the line of suppressing the outbursts and, since the law must be a reflection of the popular will, the conclusion must be binding. As the President of Cantabria says, no one is more than anyone, and in this respect there is also unanimity. For the PRC - our spokesman has already said - this is an act of tribute to Rafael de la Sierra, the driving force behind this initiative and many others of the status and great political reference in our region. It was a perfect complement of Miguel Ángel Revilla, with whom he founded in 1976 ADIC, the Association for the Defense of Cantabria Interests, which was the embryo of the Regionalist Party. I want to say something about the judicialization of politics. And when I speak of judicialization, I am referring to the criminal procedure and not to the administrative dispute procedure, because today there is a tendency in some areas to bring criminal complaints to the first ones of change. In this regard, I have seen officials torn apart by purely administrative matters beyond their personal responsibility, which, in addition to bittering their lives for years, carry the consequence for the Administration that many lose their freedom of opinion and then act with fear, with the resulting administrative paralysis because it is better to do nothing than take risks. We have also seen cases of political persecution. In Cantabria we had an example with Councilman Francisco Javier López Marcano, who was continually persecuted by political rivals to the extent that he had to resign as a deputy to facilitate the government. Subsequently, he was acquitted in all cases or they were archived, but no one will be able to remedy the damage that has been done to him in personal and political life. That is why, in addition to calling for a great deal of care to be taken to distinguish between the criminal and the administrative aspects, it is important to strengthen the prosecution of the crime of false complaints, which is very little applied in Spain. Today we have had in Cantabria the news that they have denounced for three crimes to the mayor of Bareyo and the president of the harbour authority for signing an agreement by which the lighthouse of Ajo has been painted by a well-known artist, Okuda, with the peculiar style that characterizes it. And by the way, they have also complained against President Revilla for applauding the work. This is a spurious example of the judicialization of politics. I say that the normal thing in this case would have been to challenge the agreement through administrative litigation, but there is always someone who wants to make noise this way. I would also like to take the opportunity to do something that is not fashionable at the moment and that is also not politically correct, which is to defend politicians. Today, numerous bulls and falsehoods circulate around the network in order to damage the image of politicians, starting with their number. There is one that is constantly referring to the fact that there are 500 000 politicians in Spain when there are 40 000 in Germany; 40 000 or 80 000, I do not know what they say, the number does not matter. Then, look at the small letter and it turns out that it includes all the councillors of the eight thousand villages of Spain, the neighboring juntas, the pedestrian mayors... Indeed, in Spain there are hundreds of thousands of politicians or people who engage in politics at any level that they do not just charge, but are there because they are asked by the neighbors, because they are the best of each people. This happens at all levels, from the President of the Government to the last Councillor, and I believe that also among those who are here. Most politicians are honest people, who, in addition to worrying about everyone's problems, have to endure many criticisms, most unjust and hypocritical. It has been clearly seen in this pandemic, because politicians are the reflection of society. They are freely elected by those citizens who criticize and have been elected to manage the public or to criticize managers, but any citizen would do the same as most of them if they were in their place. With regard to the proposal of the spokesman of the Regionalist Party of Cantabria, Pedro Hernando, on possible amendments to this statute, it includes the possibility that the Government may issue decree-laws in the Autonomous Community of Cantabria. Of course, Mr. Hernando, we will approve. Besides, you've already given me the job done. I have summaries of what all the autonomous communities say. They all look at it. Indeed, all the texts are very similar to the constitutional text, with which I believe everything is already invented; on this literal we already have a lot of jurisprudence and many pronouncements of the Constitutional Court and we are not going to explore any new world. I therefore hope that it will come forward, just as I hope that this reform of the statute will also come forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u12	Thank you, President. The debate before us is that of taking into account the reform of the Autonomy Statute of Cantabria, which aims to eliminate the suffocation of autonomous Members. This proposal was first presented in the Parliament of Cantabria by the Citizens' Group in 2015, with Rubén Gómez at the head, and it remains a constant demand that continues to be defended today by my colleague, Félix Álvarez, who is in the rostrum accompanied by other Members and the President of the House, to whom I would like to send a warm embrace and to spend these hard times as best as possible. The proposal was approved by the plenary of the Autonomous Parliament in December 2017 with the vote of all the political groups, something that does not happen later in other Chambers, nor in this one that we are here today. This proposal came back to Congress and due to successive electoral calls it was not able to get to a good place; we will see what happens this time. Today Spain is one of the few countries that maintain the privilege of severance for their national and autonomous deputies, in total there are 2,300 political severances that we have in force. We understand that through this figure there is, on the one hand, a breach of the principle of equality and, on the other, an alteration of the ordinary rules laid down in article 24.2 of the Spanish Constitution, which provides that everyone has the right to the ordinary judge predetermined by law. In other words, it affects a fundamental right, such as effective judicial protection, and it also implies a privilege for us, for politicians, which makes us apply a jurisdiction different from that applied to the rest of the citizens. It is therefore necessary to work towards their progressive elimination. Stuffings in this sense represent an element that removes politicians from the citizenship they represent. It is closely related to this matter that the appointment of senior officials of the judiciary depends on the political power and members of this House. It is therefore logical that our fellow citizens wonder whether the appointments of judges and judges of the courts are subject to political interference, since they depend on these members of the General Council of the Judiciary to whom I have referred. Eliminating the stalemate would also help to improve the functioning of the judiciary and, of course, to improve the perception of it by citizens. We read in the press these days that there have been negotiations, contacts, to divide the judiciary among the political parties; that if two vowels were to put Podemos, but the PP did not like it and the PSOE is trying to mediate, VOX said in March that he was willing to negotiate also vowels of the judiciary. Stop thinking about what happened or how they fell into the citizenry wasaps like the one we had to read from the Senate spokesman saying they could be controlling the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court from behind. On the other hand, we just have to read the press not far away, from today, to know that the political parties, many political parties in this House, have outstanding problems with justice. We can be up to the eyebrows, it's getting wider, it seems they want to complete an entire chapter of the Penal Code, the interior secretary of the PP pulling from the blanket for espionage to Barcenas and pointing to very relevant people and the PSOE made life impossible for the judges who investigated the EREs. That is to say, these days the Spaniards have seen with great amazement how the PP and the PSOE did not agree in the middle of a pandemic for some extensions of the state of alarm with tens of thousands of deaths and an economic crisis of consequences that we still do not know. Nor did they agree to form a government that would have avoided the entry of populists into the government by assuming what we came to call the 221 track proposed by Inés Arrimadas, which included the deputies of the Socialist Party, the People's Party and the Citizens' Party. There has been no agreement for any of this, but there is an agreement to distribute the judges and the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. There is no agreement for budgets that have to manage EUR 140 billion that the European Union will send to Spain. We are not going to agree for this time, for once, or in the situation we are in. Political parties could, for once, not believe the navel of the state and be willing not to stir up confrontation and help lift up a country that has seen dozens of thousands of people die asphyxiated and alone in the ICUs. I'll get back to it. We have already proposed a law reform that leaves judges safe from political interference. It is a reform that would generate more confidence in justice, which, as you know, is also in the interest of the lords of that bench there, the nationalists and the populists, since it is an obstacle to their plans. They saw that in the promised republic all justice was chosen by politicians. Don't let them scare the pujoles, the sedious or the evildoers any more. Regarding the outbursts - term -, Citizens defended from the beginning and with undeniable perseverance the need to suppress them. We have committed ourselves, in all government agreements and in the investment pacts, to different political forces. It has been a constant, so in the XII Legislature we put forward to the People's Party and the Socialist Party a proposal to end the system of appointment of judges and to suppress the outbursts of this House. However, there has been no willingness in previous legislatures to reach agreement. It is important to remember that today's reform went ahead thanks to the Citizens' Parliamentary Group in Cantabria. Of course, we will vote in favour of the admission to this reform of the Autonomous Statute of Cantabria. We call for this House to adopt this text, which would be a step further in regenerating Spanish and cantabrian policies and providing them with transparency. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u13	Thank you, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u14	Thank you, President. Welcome, comrades of the Parliament of Cantabria. The Republican Parliamentary Group will not prevent the reform of the Autonomous Statute of Cantabria which is being debated this afternoon in this House. We will not go in and analyse or discuss the substance of the reform of the statute, because that is the responsibility of the Cantabria Parliament itself. It is Parliament itself that must determine its powers and reforms. Esquerra Republicana is very respectful of the will of the territories and the exercise of their self-government. The sovereignty of the citizens of Cantabria rests with their Parliament, which is why we must respect it. We want all peoples to have the right to freedom to self-regulate and to decide for themselves their rights and duties, how they want to organize themselves territorially and competitively, and how their administrations should be. We will therefore abstain in the vote on this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. Mrs Márquez Guerrero has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, I would like to greet the representatives of Cantabria and thank them for their presence and for the initiative we are debating here today. As has already been pointed out, this initiative to reform the Autonomous Statute of Cantabria has not been discussed for the first time. Let us trust that this time is the final one. Our parliamentary group is going to make it as easy as possible for it to get to a good place. The proposal we are debating today is clear and simple: it seeks to suppress the outbursts of parliamentarians and members of the Cantabria Government. It should be stressed that it is a proposal, as has already been pointed out, that was adopted with the consensus of all groups in the Cantabrian Parliament, something significant and worth highlighting because it reflects a social consensus favourable to the elimination of the privileges of the political class. It is high time that the institutions were brought up to the people. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no objective reason to justify the existence of the pitfalls. It has been said that strangulation could be a deterrent to the instrumentalization of justice for spurious purposes, for example, insidious complaints. However, the truth is that there is no guarantee that such an instrumentalization of justice cannot be carried out before the Supreme Court or the higher courts of justice. It has also been argued that these higher courts would be better able to withstand the pressures that naturally arise from investigating and prosecuting political leaders. But what really happens - and on many occasions - is that in certain courts only the pressures that always come from the same direction work. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Court, in a 1985 judgment, said that strenghts were not privilege, but were in the general interest and that they ensured, in a way, the balance between powers. Today, however, there is a consensus that strangulation is an unjustifiable privilege; it makes no sense for political representatives to escape from the courts and the courts to which the citizens who have elected them are subject. Societies evolve, progress. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is always on the way. Look, Spanish society does not tolerate privileges, and suffocation implies the possession of a special legal status, a procedural advantage that constitutes an exception in the application of the principle of equality before the law; and democracies are built on equality; it is incompatible with privileges. Today, everyone is aware of the reality underlying the outbursts, which are not only the alteration of the rules of judicial jurisdiction for the benefit of a particular public office, but are a legal mechanism that forms part of the political machinery of corruption. If we want to end systemic corruption it is essential to debate, to dismantle the pillars that underpin the system piece by piece. Regrettably, not all political forces seem to be working to put an end to the privileges that favour corruption. Here we will listen to grandiose speeches against corruption and against suffocation, but when it comes to themselves or their associates the words dissolve like a sugarcane. Because one cannot stand against the outbursts and openly defend that the king emeritus, Juan Carlos I, in his golden retreat from the United Arab Emirates, maintain his outburst and other privileges. Ladies and gentlemen, the commitment against corruption is demonstrated when corruption reaches the highest institutions of the state. Placing oneself against corruption or against suffocation, thus, in abstract, of mouth, is easy, but when corruption reaches the most powerful institutions of the State, then it becomes more difficult, and there are few parties that stand firm against corruption. [[Applauds]] Some claim to be against the riggings, but their practices give them away. Why does the People's Party refuse to renew the General Council of the Judiciary, in breach of what is provided for in our Constitution? Well, to keep controlling justice. I don't say so; Mr.Ignacio Cosidó, PP spokesman in the Senate and former police director, said: We will control the Second Chamber from behind. What a coincidence that they refer to the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, which judges senators and deputies because of the beatings; what a coincidence that it is a person of the PP, the only party, the first party condemned for corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against corruption requires determination, courage and coherence. I'll give you an example. A week ago, on a proposal from the United Nations Parliamentary Group, we may, by law, amend section 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act. Yes, we have ended with the so-called Berlusconi Law, the reform of the People's Party of 2015 that reduced the education period to six months. Logically, the most complex causes exceeded that period and prescribed, and the reform was in fact a source of impunity for the corrupt. Well, just a few days ago we read in the diary: the defendant Esperanza Aguirre hastened to ask that the legal reform that allows us to continue investigating Púnica should not be implemented. This example serves us to understand that while some political forces are working against corruption to root out corruption others have been concerned and busy for years to legislate on the letter to shield the corrupt. And I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Our commitment to putting an end to stifling is firm, clear and manifest, and there are no exceptions, because privileges, whether procedural or economic, have no place in democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marquez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. Mr Del Valle Rodríguez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, like others who have spoken before me, I would like to welcome the representation of the members of Parliament in Cantabria and thank them for having travelled to make this presentation. As has already been said, we are discussing the reform of the Autonomy Statute for Cantabria, which aims to eliminate the procedural forum envisaged for members of Parliament, the Governing Council and the President. In VOX we already carried it in our electoral programme as a measure for the fight against corruption; in particular, we had the suppression of strangulations, the demand for the return of public funds and a clear definition of the policy of disqualifications. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens are sick of their progress consensus, their compositions and their corruption. From VOX we denounce their pacts to control the General Council of the Judiciary, which is the one that appoints the judges who make up the Supreme Court and the higher courts of justice, so in an indirect way it is you who choose or clearly influence the choice of those who would have to impute and judge them in their case as outlaws, hence in VOX we ask for a judicial power independent of any interference of the other powers of the State or of any group of political or economic pressure. Ladies and gentlemen, the rule of law exists only if the rules emanating from the legislative power and the actions of government exercised by the executive power have the guarantee and control of a judicial power that effectively ensures its subsequent compliance, that objectively resolves the conflicts of interest that arise, that unifies the jurisprudential interpretation that results in similar cases and, in short, that the factual assumption provided for in the law becomes reality. For this reason, VOX defends as an irrefutable principle of its political action the division of powers as a necessary condition for the existence of a true rule of law, where freedom and democracy cease to be mere rhetorical formulas to become reality. Ladies and gentlemen, what is being done is to modify the rules of the game, altering or modifying the procedural rules applicable to citizens, and all this for the benefit of certain persons who cannot be investigated in the relevant investigative courts and, indeed, before higher courts, which leaves in a delicate position the ordinary jurisdiction, assuming that the jurisdiction lacks the independence of which it has been invested or which could easily be influenced by political and media pressures, both in favour of and against the outlaw. It is clear, therefore, that the current lack of justification for the strike, which calls into question something as fundamental as the equality of all before the law, and that in little or no way it helps to heal the projected image of the Spanish political landscape, shaken in recent times by numerous cases of corruption committed by public officials, and all this in the face of the attentive gaze of citizens immersed in a crisis of unknown dimensions to which a government of incompetents has led us. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in VOX, we want the same for all of Spain as for Cantabria, because we are fighting for all Spaniards to be equal before the law, without privileges and without giving arguments to those who want to destroy our homeland with independenceist infiltrators. We will not allow the discourse of differentiations to be imposed; all regions have peculiarities. In the valleys of Cantabria we played the bowls and on its beaches the shovels; we celebrated the parties with jotas and mountain dances instead of with sardanas, rumbas or sevillanas. Everything is part of Spain's cultural wealth and should be a source of pride for the whole nation. [[Applauds]] I'm done, Madam President. At least today Cantabria will not be news because our regional representatives have come in taxi with anchovies and sobaos under their arms, but because they have decided to strip themselves of a privilege and get on the same level as the rest of the mountaineers. As I said at the beginning, in VOX we are committed to depoliticizing justice and combating corruption, so we will vote in favour of the proposed reform. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Del Valle. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Movellán Lombilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to welcome the speakers in the Cantabria Parliament from the various political groups who are accompanying us, led by their chairman, to whom we are especially grateful that he is here with us today on this difficult afternoon. I also want to take the opportunity to greet all those cantabres and cantabres that will be watching us from the treachery. When one speaks almost at the end, one can already take certain licenses and not repeat very technical matters. I would like to say that today we are in a debate on democratic regeneration, because, as President Ana Pastor said a while ago, this is the house in which the citizens' representatives give us the floor, and I would like to say that we have come here today to talk about an energy regulatory framework, an electrointensive consumer status, because its lack is killing many industries in Cantabria. Today, however, we are talking about a reform of the Cantabria Statute that will affect 42 of the more than 580,000 cantabres that we live in our community, and that is how we now have three legislatures, and, frankly, what I would like to say is that today we are talking about nothing but salmon fishing in Yemen. Some will know that salmon fishing in Yemen is that film in which a political adviser searches, investigates and wants to find a topic on which to create a media problem to distract the attention of voters, so that voters do not see what their Government is doing, but above all and most importantly, what their Government is not doing, and I believe that this is the debate we are having here today on salmon fishing in Yemen. And I will not be denied that this strategy of the governments of Pedro Sánchez and Revilla at a time like this gives, even if it may be, a little more shame. Look, we cantabres know something about salmon fishing and, above all, we know a lot about what it's like to be ashamed of. For the first, for salmon fishing, I am delighted to invite you to my land, to the Ason River, to the Saja River, and for the second, to know what it is to be ashamed of, it is enough to put on television any day and see an autonomous president to whom unemployment has grown by 22% in the last year to give good management lessons in a humorous program, between two salmon rag dolls. Some like Miguel Ángel Revilla find it funny, but I have to tell you that the 38,944 cantabres who are unemployed do not make any graces. And, look, we've had three legislatures talking about how to make ourselves more worthy of those we represent, and while we're talking from Moncloa, the government legitimizes disabled autonomous presidents and rinses their partners' increasingly dirty clothes. Many things have changed in Spain in these legislatures, but what has not changed is the position of the People's Party on the outbursts, and here I did want to make a parenthesis. One has heard from this rostrum barbarities. Already accustomed to the dance of the yenka of Citizens - where today says I say, tomorrow says Diego - we are not surprised by the change of attitude. Where Citizens put red lines to sit with a People's Party government, where they demanded resignation, today it is cast into the arms of a government whose shadows, whose imputations no longer matter to that party that came to regenerate politics in Spain. From Podemos I simply want to tell you to ask yourself why no representative has come today to defend Podemos' position, because the cantabres have turned our backs on them, because we are tired of that hypocrisy, because we were listening to the spokesman for Podemos talk about that control and that fight against corruption. And I ask you, what corruption? Don't you see yours? Be brave, support the commission of inquiry into the financing of your political party and then we will see that they fight corruption. [[Applauds]] They support that commission of inquiry. And he said that the People's Party and the parliamentary group have not changed their position because we believe that the necessary debate that has to be held in this House is a national agreement on the cuts, that it does not come to a patchwork, reform after reform of the status of autonomy, creating different symmetries between politicians, whether from one community or another, but, despite that, we will vote in favour. The People's Party is going to support it today and as long as the Spanish are equal in law and procedure before the courts, and neither the People's Party nor we, its Members, want parapets in front of the courts; on the contrary, and, look at this, I will set an example. My community has one of the hospitals that is collaborating so that in Spain the vaccine against COVID-19 will arrive as soon as possible, a hospital, ours, Valdecilla, accredited as excellent by international agencies, candidate for public health to be the first to implement innovative therapies, a hospital that results from a bid for a formula of public-private collaboration by which the socialists took us to the courts and, by the way, they lost. For this reason, the people are concerned about health, not the courts; we are concerned about employment, not the outbursts; we are concerned about coming in time to sew the big hole in the pocket that the socialist governments always leave in this country; we are concerned about the anti-okupa patrols that in some municipalities of Cantabria have created their own neighbours, because the institutions do not protect them before or defend them after being victims. And we are worried about the cantabrian families, who have stopped receiving basic social income and have been waiting for more than three months for the so-called minimum living income, which does not reach their pockets. We are concerned about the economic confinement in which Cantabria can fall without investment in road, rail and digital infrastructure. How we do not care about the port of Santander, whether it is a port of the State with less opportunities than the port of Gijon or the port of Bilbao! We are concerned that Cantabria will be isolated from the Trans-European Transport Network, losing opportunities and therefore future for our people. The cantabres, like the rest of the Spaniards, need and deserve opportunities for the future, because we cannot let the talent go. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. Do you realize that since the rule of Pedro Sánchez in this country, a young man has a better chance of hearing in this Congress of the Diputate battalions about his great-grandfathers than he has such important issues as talking about the quality of the education he receives and the work he should be able to access? We are going to vote in favour of the reform of the Cantabria Statute, but let us stop talking, that salmon is going to end in Yemen and they are going to have to really get to work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u21	Thank you, Mr. Movellán. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u22	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by expressing special thanks today to all the representatives of the Cantabria Parliament, and in particular to its President, Joaquín Gómez, who is going through a difficult day. Welcome to this house, yours, the seat of national sovereignty, and especially welcome the three spokespersons who today defended this reform of the Statute of Autonomy for Cantabria because they are from a people, that of Santoña, that is going through a difficult time because of the situation of extraordinary difficulty of the pandemic of the COVID in its municipality, so also the solidarity of the Congress of Deputies with the men and women of Santoña. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic is making us learn a lot and very quickly, but above all it is showing that politics is more useful when, as in the debate we are holding, it makes use of three essential elements that are at its disposal to advance as a society, which are unity, cooperation and consensus, and it is that consensus with which the proposal that we are debating today in this House is born that gives me special pride as a Member of Parliament for Cantabria, and that we also do so on this day of commencement or of this session talking about our land, about the problems that concern men and women in Cantabria to face the future as well. That is the best sign of the richness, plurality and diversity of our country and of the value that we give all men and women to our democracy and to the values that we have been defending for more than forty years, and that guarantee coexistence in peace, freedom and equality. To speak today of the Statute of Cantabria and the Constitution is to speak of democracy, it is to recognize that our country, far from unreal dogmas and constructions, is a guarantor not only of the rights of citizens, but also of their territories. The Autonomy Statute for Cantabria is the best reflection of our country's progress over the past four decades. Self-government works, and works well, when loyalty is not understood as renunciation, when governance does not discuss sovereignty, but shares responsibilities to promote people's well-being and progress. That's the last end we're here for. Cantabria is today a better region thanks to decades of self-government, which has allowed us to strengthen public health, with a reference hospital like Valdecilla; our education, with a university like the University of Cantabria, one of the best in the country; a system of dependency more developed than in other regions, or which has also allowed us to develop the primary sector that today allows us to produce not only for Cantabria, but for much of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, politics is useless when it is reduced to reproaches such as those we have heard in this House today, because this country is more vertebrate and more cohesive today than ever before, because it is governed by thinking about everything and not just part of it. In that, too, the pandemic has taught us a lesson by showing that this is not about what is happening to me, ladies and gentlemen, but about what is happening to us. Mr. Speaker of the People's Party, Congressman for Cantabria, Mr. Movellán, do you know what I'm saying? What shame for the men and women of Cantabria is not that I don't know who or who goes by taxi or goes with anchovies, the shame for Cantabria is that Barcenas has been a senator for our land, and today is the greatest exponent of the political corruption of this country! [[Applauds]] That shames the men and women of Cantabria! And do you also know what embarrasses the men and women of Cantabria? May you in the government of the community privatize part of the University Hospital Marqués de Valdecilla, which has proved so necessary in these times! That's what embarrasses the men and women of Cantabria, Mr. Movellan! [[Applauds]] But, ladies and gentlemen, that today we can talk about the Autonomy Statute for Cantabria and support this initiative emanating from the will of the Cantabrians and the Cantabrians is not only talking about the democratic quality of our country, it is also the best sign of progress and progress that is not so much unthinkable in this country. To remember it is not to remember the past or to confront it with the present, it is simply the exercise of memory necessary to strengthen politics, institutions and democracy itself. The Statute of Autonomy for Cantabria, as well as our own Constitution, is the fruit of those resignations of our elders, which in a past time, also very difficult, had to carry out, and they also did it starting from very low, but they believed and did it, and today Spain is what is thanks to the efforts of our elders. But also today, ladies and gentlemen, we can do it. That is why the message from the Congress of Deputies to the men and women of Cantabria today to this proposal brought by the Parliament of our community, which is the result of the agreement, the pact and the consensus, is so important. The elimination of the suffocation of the regional deputies and of the president and advisers of the Government is born of that consensus necessary to address transformations that otherwise, having the same legitimacy, if only they were supported by half of the representatives of the citizenry, would not have the same strength. And that is also a lesson that we must learn in the future for our country: nothing is more powerful than consensus, and we must work on it to deal with COVID-19, to approve the next General State Budgets for 2021 or the reforms that we must address from our social and political model of coexistence. Consensus, consensus and consensus, unity, unity and unity, as demonstrated by the representatives of the Cantabria Parliament. Autonomous communities such as Cantabria, ladies and gentlemen, have competence in the organization of their self-government and in the rules of operation of their institutions and authorities, and today, as deputies of the Congress of the Nation, we support the initiative presented to us, the result of that will. Moreover, the proposal should be born of that consensus by all the representatives of Cantabria, which makes it the best bulwark on which to build the reforms that will have to come in the future. Because moreover, ladies and gentlemen, this reform does not limit any right, but it does allow us to advance to Cantabria as a society, and it makes all the citizens of our land, of our beloved land called Cantabria, a little more equal today, thanks to the will of the men and women of Cantabria, represented today by the spokesmen of the Parliament of the community. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u23	Thank you, Mr. Casares. Thanks again to the delegation of the Cantabria Parliament, particularly Mr Hernando, Mr Fernández and Mrs Cobo, who have spoken in support of today's initiative, and to the President of the Cantabrian Parliament, whom we wish to accompany with gratitude, affection and affection on a difficult day for him, on a sad day. Thank you so much. [[The representatives of the Parliament of Cantabria leave the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u24	We continue with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the amendment of Law 50/1981 of 30 December, which regulates the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr. Santamaría Ruiz has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by replying to Mr Casares and telling him that if he knows what really embarrasses the cantabres and cantabres of this country...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u26	Mr Santamaría, I have to tell you that we have started a new item on the agenda and we cannot resume previous debates. Get to the point, please. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u27	In any case, I am convinced that Mr Casares will know that what is most embarrassing to his fellow citizens, to the cantabres and cantabres, is to know that thanks to the 700 million euros stolen in the ERE, you are the only ones able to register Mr Messi this season. [[Applauds]] From here, I stick to the text of my speech to reiterate a question which I asked to your ladies and gentlemen just a few weeks ago, and which has to do with the change in the process of selecting the State Attorney General that we propose in order to be able to overcome once and for all the paradigm that is currently in force and which Sánchez summed up so well when the media asked him about the State Attorney General's Office. I quote that famous answer in which he said: And who does the prosecution depend on? Well, that's it. That is the paradigm currently in force with regard to the Attorney General of the State and which leads us to ask a question: what is happening in this country, with this Government that we all suffer from Spanish, so that it is the highest institutions of the State that are, with the greatest emphasis, questioning the basic consensus on which our coexistence is based? Who is the Attorney General of the State to give up sovereignty? And, ladies and gentlemen, why, on August 4, the Attorney General decided with an information note to change the criterion set by Consuelo Madrigal that a rogatory commission such as that promoted by the Argentine court would seriously violate Spanish legality? According to the prosecution, this decision is made because this is required - and I quote - by the new memorial paradigms; whatever that means. This, therefore, does not in reality mean anything more than expressing loud and clear that the Government's ministry number 23 has made a clear commitment to revisionism, forgetting that the Spaniards forty-three years ago we passed the Amnesty Law and decided to leave the past behind. I wonder how pacts can be sought while the basic agreements that guide our model of democratic coexistence are threatened. We have seen one example this week with what happened with the voluntary declaration of Mr Martín Villa, who came, with the support of the People's Party and with the support of those who raised with their resignations and surrenders the exemplary Transition of our country to democracy, to declare when it did not have to do so. Sánchez has stated on many occasions that in Spain there are many more things that unite us than those that separate us. However, there is a paradox that the People's Party always stands alone in defending what unites us, while it is the institutions of the State that have occupied the Government and its partners in Podemos - such as the Public Prosecutor's Office, Spanish Radio-television, CNI, the National Commission for Markets and Competition or CIS itself - that encourage, encourage, encourage, promote and feed everything that separates the Spaniards, including the revisionist delusion. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing a change in the system of election of the Attorney General of the State because the State will not endure much longer the envelopments of its highest committed institutions?paradoxes of life!Is that what you're talking about? to take over the state, to take down themselves. We oppose this new form of quintacolumnism frontally and join all the protagonists of the Transition who were able to sacrifice their ideal for a superior ideal such as that of coexistence. Ortega said that civilization is above all a will for coexistence and a Government is uncivil, in Ortegian terms, when it denies the basic consensus on which such coexistence is based. And this is what happens day and day with the Sanchez government as well. The occupation of the institutions causes the Prosecutor's Office to run to the aid of the new memorial paradigm to pursue Martín Villa, but to remain silent when it comes to promoting the declaration of Churches requested by the Attorney General of Bolivia since January 4, applying I understand not the memorial paradigm but the amnesial paradigm, if you allow me to use the word. [[applause]] As I said, ladies and gentlemen, some of those protected and the others held by the Prosecutor's Office. And this is just one example of the many who demonstrate that we were not wrong when we expressed our no more sharp, firm and consistent appointment of the current Attorney General of the State. Today I will not repeat the arguments that we made at the time, as they are in the Diario de Sesiones, but Mrs Lastra, a Member of the Commission with a selective memory, may I remind you that you cannot forget the disgraceful conversations that were recorded by Commissioner Villarejo with the current prosecutor. I would also like to say that when you ask for political responsibilities you must know that there are two great escapees in this House. The first is Mr Sánchez, who has never explained the ERE case and has never assumed his political responsibilities. Do you know, or can someone from the Socialist Party respond, if the same rigour of responsibility that required the People's Party when it was ruling applies to itself? Or do you know if you will send the Minister of Justice again to meet with Chaves, as happened this summer, so that his appeal will go well? And the second great escapist is Mr. Iglesias, who fled as a ratchet when giving explanations about the Dina case or about the financing of his party. Ladies and gentlemen, back in line with my speech, I must say that those who accused us then of prejudging what would be the performance of the Attorney General of the State, today they must admit that we were not very misguided. Today we are at a point where my group has never doubted that we would come to the point that it is the enormous shadow of doubt that emanates from the prosecution's actions, that it does not hesitate to act as a prosecutor on the part of the government and against the rest when it is in the interest of the government. That is why we are debating the necessary change in the system of election of the State Attorney General and we must do so, ladies and gentlemen, so that no government can make the mistake that Sánchez made. We therefore propose to amend the rule to give effect to the mandate of the European Court of Human Rights on impartiality. We propose to amend the rule to comply with the recommendations of the Greek Group which has warned us about the need to deepen the independence, in substance and in the form, in which the Attorney-General's Office operates and which does not exist. I would like to highlight something that was evident to many: that who was or had been a Sanchez minister, who had actively participated in the electoral campaign, neither had the appearance of impartiality required by the court nor would be impartial or neutral in the performance of her role, as it has indeed been. To prevent the Spaniards from seeing one of the highest institutions in the State acting continuously as prosecutor on the part of us, we propose to develop the constitutional principles of independence, impartiality and neutrality. We propose that public offices, both elected and non-elected by any of the public administrations and those who have held an organic position in any political party, cannot be proposed to the Office of the Attorney-General of the State unless four years have passed since his resignation as a public office. We also put forward a second measure that we consider essential and that is that we insist on the need to broaden the scope of the fitness test so that it has to be voted on and agreed by two thirds of the majority in this House. These are, in short, the most important measures that we propose, but we also want to express to the rest of the parliamentary groups that we are open to listening, discussing and including all those issues that affect greater independence, neutrality and impartiality in the work of the State Attorney General. We propose to you a debate within the framework of the Commission without limits other than those principles. We ask you, with your vote, not to prevent the processing of a proposal such as the present one, whose sole objective is to avoid to the Spaniards the blush to which the institution exposes us today. I would like the debate in the Commission to also open some windows of an institution which is today excessively opaque. I'm going to tell you three examples briefly. This Sunday a means of communication announced - already in advance of them that my group will be far above this news - that the prosecutor of the Chamber against Violence against Women, María Pilar Martín Nájera, will not be renewed in full scandal because of the non-renunciation of his status as judge of the Constitutional Court, of Mr Fernando Valdés Dal-Ré, on which the Prosecutor's Office in the Supreme Court has not yet evacuated report. It is entirely unacceptable that the status of judge of the Constitutional Court, or that his eventual attachment to progressiveism, or that a threat to the non-renewal of the prosecutor who has to assess the events that have taken place may affect a case as serious as that of an alleged crime of gender-based violence. In what situation would all the victims of Spain be left? I wonder where the Ministry of Equality is on this issue and whether the judge, who has to resolve an appeal by the government delegate to the High Court, has anything to do with that silence. [[applause]] Secondly, I would like some light to be shed on the fifty-one actions, between complaints and demands, submitted by the Government for its management during the pandemic that plagues us. We know very well that the Attorney-General will not take any of these fifty-one actions and therefore it is not necessary for her to abstain, but we agree with the associations of prosecutors when they demand, once they have opened up the criminal route against the government's responsibilities for providing sufficient protection material, which is left out in absolute terms and with all the consequences, because not doing so would put the prosecutor's office as a whole and the separation of powers at serious risk. We're gonna be very vigilant. And the third and final case has to do with a petition we made to the state attorney general to investigate the connivance relationship between some of the anti-corruption prosecutors and the political force that is currently being investigated for irregular funding, which is Podemos. We want to know in what state of proceedings are the proceedings that we demanded of the State Attorney General to open in a scandal of the greatest dimension, such as the connivance between the Prosecutor's Office and a corrupt political party. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by referring to an issue that is at the heart of the political debate: the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. On this I will tell you very clearly what the position of our party is. Our party has three objectives in the field of justice: to safeguard judicial independence, to defend the constitutional framework and to improve public service. We have not come to occupy institutions, nor the judiciary, as socialists and puemites, and the bill we are debating today is the best example of this. As I say, judicial independence, no spaces of impunity, constitutional framework and public service of justice are our priorities. Gentlemen of the Government, if you do not respect these basic agreements, without these basic guarantees on which our institutional building and our system of freedoms stands, do not ask for either the applause or the acquiescence of the opposition. Take steps in that direction, gentlemen of the government, commit yourselves to your defence, as Mr Casado has proposed to you since the beginning of the legislature, and there you will have us. And stop moaning about it. Do not ask us to legitimize with our invasion your particular ascent to heaven because we have the rule of law and our freedom. Do not ask us to facilitate the entry of Podemos into the last bastion that remains for us to defend the rule of law and those who have come to destroy the consensus that guides our coexistence, those who have come to assault the heavens, those who wish to break the first of the constitutional consensus, such as the constitutional monarchy. In short, they don't ask us because we can't be part of them. It was you, socialist gentlemen, who chose Podemos as a dance partner. Hold on to the stumbling blocks you now have to receive and do not ask us to be the ones to assume your own failures. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Santamaría. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group for the first time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Speaking of the prosecutor's office, I join those who think that Montesquieu has not died, but lives in the letter and spirit that underpins any decent democratic regime. Hence my support for this proposal, which falls within the terms of legality and impartiality enshrined in article 124.2 of our Constitution. This institution is subject to them, among other reasons, because it is entrusted with extremely important functions, such as ensuring the independence of the courts. It will not be able to do so if the Office of the Prosecutor is not guaranteed a degree of separation from the executive branch that will enable it to promote justice without any cuts or interference of a political nature. Those who argue that a State Attorney General's Office designated by the Government must be fully subject to its guidelines are completely unaware of the framework within which a judiciary of this relief is deployed, and much more so when it is decided to appoint someone who has just left a ministry to access the prosecutor's summit after crossing that revolving door which, curiously, is not warned by the'savonarolas' who do not stop denouncing these maneuvers but who have not said or mutated about it. Ladies and gentlemen, do you imagine that the public prosecutor's office would finally be given the capacity to investigate cases by being at the head of the prosecutor's office someone named by his unequivocal political profile? Those who fill their mouths should be heard talking about judicial independence when it does not affect them. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u30	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. First of all, Madam President, I would like to thank all the education professionals who are making sure that the course in Spain as a whole begins in conditions. There is a great concern right now in millions of families about whether their sons and daughters are receiving the face-to-face education that we all deserve from the Spaniards. I therefore express our appreciation to you because, despite the disorderly order of the Government, we see that education is working. With regard to what concerns us today, as the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group said, when the President of the Government said the famous phrase 'Who is the Prosecutor's Office'?', there ended any independence or appearance of independence of the prosecutor's office. The President of the Government's favour of judicial independence is beyond doubt with that intervention. From an objective point of view, without thinking about the person currently occupying the prosecutor's office, if you tell someone that a person who has been in an electoral campaign asking for the vote for a particular political party is now in this institution, obviously no one will believe that he is an independent person and that he is not at the service of that political party. It's just that it's impossible, it's that common sense tells you it's impossible. Therefore, any Spaniard thinks that it cannot be that people who have held political posts, who have run for election and who have been voted by citizens to do a job, are at the service of all citizens to maintain impartiality and independence. We understand that this is not possible, and therefore we believe that a change must be made in these terms or in similar terms - with the modifications that can be made in the process of amendments - to those of the proposal brought here today by the People's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, and lastly, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u33	Thank you, President. That there are rotating doors between the judiciary and the Public Prosecutor's Office and between the judiciary and the Executive is evidence, says the Greek report and said it by the Independent Judicial Forum. What is surprising is that the People's Party, the most corrupt party in southern Europe, is talking to us about the need for a division of powers. It is surprising that we could talk about Mr. Carlos Lesmes, about Marchena or Mr. Maza, who made the entire route of rotating doors into the judiciary, the Prosecutor's Office and the Government. And we are also surprised because you refuse to renew the General Council of the Judiciary and today's news, which already points directly to former Minister Fernández Díaz and Mariano Rajoy as accomplices in preventing the investigation of PP Box B from the government. We are concerned about the Law of the Prosecutor's Office, we are concerned about the whole law; on the one hand, because it is very old and, on the other hand, we are particularly concerned about article 1, which speaks of the mission of defending citizens' rights and the public interest. We wonder - and we turn to the government parties - why the Office of the Prosecutor does nothing, for example, with the escape of the Emeritus King, investigated by the Office of the Prosecutor itself, or why the Office of the Prosecutor announces a new instruction to pursue the occupation of dwellings when the service to housing is not guaranteed. We also wonder why the Prosecutor's Office considers the judgement of the trial to be exemplary, which keeps eight people imprisoned for putting ballot boxes. To whom do you defend the Prosecutor's Office, the king, the vulture funds? Does it act like the Bureau of Congress, which prevents us from investigating and talking about corruption that persecutes the monarchy? What we do know is that the Attorney General's Office pursues people who have no housing and have to occupy to access, and I am not talking about the debate that conservative means have wanted to put on the table of the occupation that if you leave your holiday home, you occupy it. I'm not talking about this, I'm talking about the vulture funds, which accumulate housing and billions of euros while people throw it out of their homes. These people are being chased by the prosecution. And it also pursues freedom of expression because the CUP is being investigated for this campaign, that of the referendum of 1 October. [[shows a poster with the motto 'Yes, vire means to take part']] Instead of worrying that a gentleman like Juan Carlos I is in a luxury hotel while he is suspected of stealing a lot of public money, a political party is being persecuted for campaigning for a referendum on self-determination. Is this the public interest? It does not serve the Government of Progress label if it is just a label, it does not serve to talk about dialogue if you maintain the same structures that defend the elites and deny collective rights. Look, every time I go up to this rostrum I repeat, they leave us no other remedy: that the democratic and republican alternative and for their people. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u35	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you, Mrs. Dolores Delgado, the State Attorney General, seem to dislike anything, don't you? On the other hand, they do seem to like Mr. Carlos Lesmes, and this because of his neutrality, impartiality and independence, yes? Today they bring us a proposal that surprises us. But I think, deep down, they're right. It is obvious that there is a problem of politicization and lack of independence of the judiciary. That is to say, it is politicised, not because I say it, but because it is mentioned in the Greek report - it seems that you have now realized its existence, and not in previous years when you were in government - and so many European institutions say. As I said, you can see that you don't like a hair the state attorney general. It's a legitimate thing, it's understandable. Now I won't go out in defence of the prosecutor, I don't want to do her a job and I don't want to do you a favor either; it's more, I think it doesn't look right - say what the law says - that a woman who has been a minister goes straight to being a state attorney general. He said that his proposal was surprising because one of the recommendations he made was that there was no need to legislate hotly, let alone on an ad hoc case. What is clear is that you do not care that the legislation has to be amended - it is true that it is old, that it is forty years old - but you do not want that lady in the Attorney General's Office. Moreover, they mention in their explanatory statement that the object is the changing reality in society. And what's changed? For it has changed that you do not govern and that you have not elected the Attorney General of the State. Can you tell me that the prosecutors-general chosen by you as Cardinal, Mrs Madrigal, Mr Maza, were more neutral, more independent, the one who said that the fall would be tougher in a report on the process? I don't think they were more neutral and more independent. What's obvious is that you didn't choose them. But it seems they haven't read today's press. I am not referring to the Kitchen case - of which I believe we are going to have an opportunity to have a long and wide-ranging dialogue and which I hope can be investigated in a committee of inquiry in this House - but rather of the lack of renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, as other speakers have already mentioned both here and in the previous one. What's wrong with them? Aren't you in such a hurry? Do you not want to change the legality to follow the advice and recommendations of the Greek report, which also makes a few? You will tell me whether that report does not mention the problem of the separation of powers in the Spanish case, when it is yourselves - as a spokesman for the United Nations party Podemos mentioned earlier - who would control the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court through the back door. So they're worried about the separation of powers, aren't they? As I said, they are in no hurry to renew the General Council of the Judiciary. It seems to them that there is a conservative or ultra-conservative majority to be able to influence when it is needed. They only care about the Greek report in what mentions the independence of the Office of the Prosecutor, not in what it says about the election, for example, of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. They make a proposal for a report of suitability approved by two thirds of the House. If we take into account that the election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary requires a three-fifth majority, it does not change much. And we see that, precisely, it is one of the reasons for the politicization and the lack of independence of that body, which is so pointed out in the Greek report. Thirdly, I think it is important that this rule be amended. If we go to cases of comparative law, we see how in the vast majority of neighbouring States, we do not have to go very far either, it is the Government that elects the State Attorney General. But there are interesting cases, for example, in Portugal itself, the Government elects the Attorney General, but his term of office extends after the Government's term of office has expired. That is, it is not during the Government that has chosen it. In the case of Germany, there are general prosecutors in each Länder. Or a case that I think is very interesting is that of Italy, where there is no prosecutor general of the state precisely to avoid any kind of influence or hierarchy. Or the case of Holland, which I believe should not be copied, where the State Attorney General and the members of the Public Prosecutor's Office are by royal decree for life; I believe that this is not the right case. Or the case of France, where the President of the Republic, after hearing the High Council of the Judiciary, makes the election of that prosecutor. I tell you that there are cases in comparative law, looking at neighbouring States, where steps can be taken to ensure that neutrality, impartiality and independence of the Office of the Attorney-General of the State. Now, be honest, you don't worry about that - you haven't worried about it before or you don't worry about it now - only and exclusively want Mrs. Dolores Delgado not to be the state's attorney general. That is why we will not go into this ad hoc measure and vote against it. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Iñarritu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u37	Thank you very much, President. He proposed that the People's Parliamentary Group should amend the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions so that it could not be proposed to hold the office of Attorney General who held or had held elected or non-elected public or organic positions of political parties in the past four years, and the initiative also included that the assessment currently being made by the Justice Commission on the merits and suitability of the candidate proposed by the Government needed to be approved by a three-fifth majority of this House. The justification for these changes - as we are told - would come from the need to strengthen the constitutional value that the institution of the Office of the Prosecutor, and in particular the Attorney General, sustains as a manifestation of the separation of powers. Even some spokesman for another parliamentary group, on another occasion and on this subject, delving into these reasonings, came to qualify as a democratic anomaly that would have been proposed for this post who at the time was a Member and had previously been Minister of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliamentary Group does not share the justification for this legislative proposal. This cannot be dogmatically based on the democratic principle of separation of powers, because this principle does not in itself suffer because the institution of the Office of the Prosecutor orbits more or less away from the Executive. If that were so, we would have to conclude that those countries of Anglo-Saxon tradition - in which the Office of the Prosecutor is part of the Executive, is its Minister of Justice - are not democracies because with this decision they break the principle of separation of powers. That is, according to this reasoning, full democracies would not be either the United States, Canada, England, Australia or New Zealand and, in Europe, neither would Switzerland. Therefore, the parameter that we must take into account is not that of democracy and the separation of powers in abstract, but how the Office of the Prosecutor is constitutionally set up in the 1978 Constitution. And it has chosen a model in which the essential features of the institution and its mission are different from those of the judges and magistrates who make up the judiciary. Thus, while their mission is to administer justice by executing jurisdictional authority, the Office of the Prosecutor promotes the action of justice, which is something substantially different. And its essential constitutional features are also substantially different: while judges and magistrates, integrated into the judiciary, are independent, immobile and subject only to the rule of law, the Office of the Prosecutor, by constitutional mandate, is linked to the principle of unity of action and hierarchical dependence, without prejudice to the principle of legality and impartiality in the performance of its constitutional mission. And also the constitutional mode of election of the president of the Supreme Court and the General Council and that of the Attorney General are completely different: the first is chosen by the governing body of the Judiciary and the other by the Government, without prejudice to the participation of the General Council. For this reason, the Constitutional Court itself, in its judgement 7/1981, has not hesitated to state that the Office of the Prosecutor, in its constitutional form, is not an administrative body, but is not a genuinely judicial body either. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is not constitutionally correct to say that this reform, which is intended to strengthen the constitutional values that underpin the institution of the Office of the Prosecutor and its maximum body, and to do so, to be based on passages in Greek reports that refer to the governing structures of the judiciary, but not to the Office of the Prosecutor, as if what can be claimed for judges and magistrates could also be claimed for prosecutors and the Attorney General. This is similar when the justification for the proposal also mentions - already spoken by other spokesmen - Greek reports regarding the revolving doors as if they refer to the transition from one public responsibility to another, failing that when the group of Greek States speaks against the rotating doors it is referring exclusively to the incorporation into the private sector from the public sector, so in its reports it comes to ask Spain for stricter procedures in view of the fact that since 2006 the Office of Conflicts of Interest has given 98 % of the authorizations requested by former public officials of the General Administration of the State or of the same Government to reintegrate into the private sector. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we do not know what is meant by claiming that the non-binding report of the Committee on Justice on the suitability of the person proposed by the Government to occupy the position of Attorney General should be ratified by a two-thirds majority of this plenary, unless the media noise seeks to add another scenic majority of blockage so that the renewals of the Office of the Attorney General of the State run the same fate as those that we have suffered today in the General Council of the Judiciary or in the Constitutional Court, to quote some relatives because of the matter, and to end, as we see these days, by calling against the degradation of the institutions, to which, on the other hand, it helped. Finally - and I am finishing, Madam President - we do not see the opportunity of this reform either when a thorough debate of the tax institution will take place in parallel with the debate on the new Criminal Procedure Act replacing the hundred-year-old and heavily patched Alonso Martínez Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u39	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to this bill proposed by the People's Party, I would like to begin by saying that since 2017 my political party, Citizens, has been registering precisely legislative proposals both to modify the reform in the system of election, of selection of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, and in the appointment of the prosecutor or the general prosecutor of the State. These are reforms that we have put forward from a far more ambitious perspective, far deeper, far more courageous than the bill that the People's Party brings us today through Mr Santamaría because obviously the People's Party over the past 40 years, together with the Socialist Party, has participated in this system, has taken advantage of the system according to which the Attorney General of the State was perceived by the whole world as the Attorney General of the Conservative State or the Prosecutor General of the Progressive State, ultimately following the ideology of the Government that appoints it. That is why the PP now comes here dragging his feet, with his small mouth, with a small reform compared to the one proposed by Citizens, without any doubt, and, of course, on top of it comes a day that, Mr. Santamaría, with all the respect and affection I have for him, is not the day for the People's Party to be able to breastfeed in relation to the flag of regeneration, of democratic quality, of transparency, etc., with the kitchen that has assembled the statements of Mr. Paco Martínez. But it is indeed here that what we have witnessed in this debate and in the previous one is the usual one, the bank on this side and the bank on this side are fighting to see who is more corrupt. Mr Santamaría highlights the EREs, the other points to Gürtel, etc. All corrupt, in short, struggling to see who is more corrupt than the other or who is less corrupt than the other. What happens is that this is a reform that, although short, but timid, but brief, is a reform that goes in line with what Citizens have been proposing since 2017 and my political party does what it does when it sees a proposal that comes from another parliamentary group is to analyze whether it is good or bad, whether it is useful or not for the Spaniards and for the general interest. And this is so, so we will vote in favour, but encourage you, Mr. Santamaría, if this goes forward, if we pass the trance of the consideration, to be generous in dealing with the Commission and accept a much deeper reform, as other spokespersons have also claimed, of the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Ministry of Law 50/198 because the objective is indeed good. It is a matter of disassociating the Attorney General of the State from the appointment of the Executive Power, from those chains which bind him to the party that is in the Government; that he is the Attorney General of the State and that he is not the Attorney General of the Government, that this confusion does not occur again in the mind of the President of the Government when he says that: it is up to the Government, is it not? Well, that's it, what are we going to keep talking about? Let's get this straight. Your reforms, the ones you propose, some of us like. I believe that it is very well drafted that involves the decoupling of the exercise of political office, elective office, is a good measure; others are short, as is the case with the appointment for the four-year term. And here too, from this rostrum, someone has said that the appointment of the Attorney General of the State and his cessation of the appointment and cessation of the Government itself should be untied. In this respect, I therefore encourage you, if we pass this trance, this procedure, to be generous in admitting the amendments and to be more ambitious. Of course, the history of the State Attorney General is a story full of shame. The principles of legality, impartiality, technical independence, protection of legality and fundamental rights, these important functions performed by the prosecution, of course, are not perceived in this way by the citizenry as a result of the fact that during these forty years I do not recall a single prosecutor general of the State in which someone has only obtained his technical training regardless of his ideological backpack, his political backpack. Whenever a new State Attorney General arrives, we find that one is on the right and the other is on the left. In this country of great jurists, can we not find a prosecutor general of the state who does not speak of his political inclination, of which only his works, his books, his chairs, of how good a jurist he is? I refuse to think this is the case. It is a fundamental institution in the administration of justice and, like justice, the Office of the Prosecutor must be impartial and must also appear impartial. Citizens have to perceive that it is a depoliticized institution. Finally, why speak of Eligio Hernández, in 1992, appointed by the Socialist Party, declared illegal; of three prosecutors-general of the State appointed in two years, of the reprobation of Mr Maza and of the Minister of Justice of the time, and when we already believed that we had seen everything, the Socialist Party appears to us appointing a deputy of the Socialist Party and Minister of Justice as the State's attorney-general. Does anyone wonder or have any doubts as to whether or not they are going to comply with these principles which must inform the prosecution of technical independence, autonomy, impartiality? Well, of course - some spokesman has already said it here - we have the right to suspect that no, and for example, a button. This same week, Supreme Court Prosecutor Luis Navajas said that he will not convene the Board of Prosecutors to examine the admission or not to deal with the more than ninety complaints that this Government has as a result of the disastrous management that it has made of the pandemic. He's not going to convene the Board of Prosecutors, and we'd all be wondering, and this is a technical decision? Well, it doesn't look like it, does it? Apparently not. We have a right to suspect, because in addition to being so, we have to look like it. I urge the People's Party to accept this appointment of the State Attorney-General for six years; to be a lawyer of twenty-five years of recognized competence; not to have held public or political office not only four years but also ten years; to cease his appointment not automatically with that of the Government; to have that two-thirds majority of the Congress of Deputies also serve for the removal of the office of the State Prosecutor-General in cases related to the incorrect performance of his duties; to have communications in the State Prosecutor-General's Office always be made in writing; to have budgetary autonomy, as is the case with the Constitutional Court or the General Council of the Judiciary, with an independent section in the budgets; to go further in the plurality and representativeness of the Public Prosecutor's Council; to go further in strengthening the autonomy of the public prosecutors by preventing the chief prosecutors from issuing instructions on the specific case, being able to issue only general instructions and to reinforce the famous article 27 of the Organic Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office, according to which the prosecutor may complain of the instruction that the non-meritative and non-meritable form of the public authority are not worth. In this sense, we have that opportunity; we have the opportunity to make citizens believe again in the institutions, in the Office of the Prosecutor, in their independence, in the exercise of their important functions, so that there are no doubts about the reasons that motivate the Office of the Prosecutor to make a decision or another precisely because its decisions are very relevant, so that politicians take our hands away from the Administration of Justice...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u40	Mr. Bal, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u41	..., so that at last the Prosecutor's Office - and I finish - is not only impartial but also seems impartial. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u42	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u43	Thank you, Madam President. We have heard it several times this afternoon because it portrays hypocrisy, the demagoguery of the People's Party: 'We will control the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court from behind', Mr. Cosidó. It portrays, as I say, perfectly how the People's Party understands the independence of justice. The problem is that for decades they have demonstrated in practice that this is the case, a justice that acts in the service of the political interests of the regime, with clearly political pronouncements to supplement legal rigour when necessary and with mostly reactionary positions. The so-cracked Transition, which did not break with the dictatorship, made possible the continuity of many structures of Francoism in the regime of 78. The best example, the Court of Public Order, which stood on 4 January 1977 as a Franco-Repressive Court and rose on 5 January 1977 as a National Democratic Court. It is this Spanish post-Franco justice that for forty years has shamed any Democrat with macho, repressive sentences against freedom of expression or directly political, such as those dictated against the sovereignty and independence of nations without state. We do not save the PSOE from responsibility in this situation. For forty years, PSOE and the People's Party have agreed to split the judiciary. This proposal for a law of the People's Party is highly hypocritical. The problem for you is not to guarantee the independence of the Attorney General's Office, the real problem is that now it is not controlled by the PP. Finally, what really needs to be done with justice is to democratize it once and for all, to provide it with sufficient resources and, at least for the autonomous nations and communities that request it, to transfer it, in the case of Galicia, to assume full jurisdiction in the field of justice and to make the High Court of Xustiza in Galicia the last judicial instance in our country. In demagogic maneuvers of the PP the BNG will not enter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. Also for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I welcome the fact that on this trip to the centre of the People's Party, you have suddenly come up with this concern for implementing the principles of independence, impartiality and neutrality that must be governed by the administration of justice. To the Prosecutor's Office and the Attorney General's Office, to the Attorney General's Office, we give nothing more and nothing less than the exercise of jus puniendi. We must therefore demand that those principles of impartiality, neutrality and independence of that body be effective. It would be inconceivable for the Prosecutor's Office to act on partisan criteria. It would be inconceivable for the Prosecutor's Office to act in such a way as to favour friends, relatives, for example, by not pursuing cases of corruption with sufficient force. Or it would also be inconceivable for the Prosecutor's Office to act with excessive rigour, with anger, against enemies, adversaries or political dissidents. A hypothetical country in which that happened could not be described as full democracy. It would also be inconceivable for a Ministry of Public Prosecutions, under the protection or coverage of a literal interpretation of legality, to exercise the ius puniendi in such a way that it was not the main guarantor of fundamental rights. A country in which the Prosecutor's Office, relying on legality, was unaware of the provisions of international conventions on fundamental rights or ignored the resolutions and recommendations of various supranational human rights bodies could not be described as a full democracy. The Ministry of Public Prosecutions must therefore act on these principles, but not only must it do so, but it must also appear to be, and in this regard it does not seem appropriate to us to have the name of the State which has previously been a minister or deputy of a political group. That is why we are going to vote in favour of taking the bill into consideration and we would like to call on the whole House, also on the benches of the left, to reflect and re-think and to do so. There has always been criticism by one bank or another of the Attorney General of the State. Today you are criticizing from the bench of the right to the current state attorney general, but you are going to look at the hemerotheques and you will see that in very recent times you were also rightly criticizing the appointments of state prosecutors general made by the right. And already put, let's go over everything, the conditions of fitness to be able to take up the job. Five years of neutrality seem to me few. Perhaps we should demand that they have never campaigned or held public or representative office or at least during a period in which they have prescribed, and worry not only about their past, but also about their future, that during the years after they ceased to serve as the public prosecutor, they cannot receive any kind of prebenda, reward or reward for their performance in such a position. Therefore, a more stringent system of incompatibilities, which must be accountable to this House, that this House has the capacity, by a qualified majority, to cease the Attorney General of the State who does not maintain those conditions and does not meet those requirements of impartiality, neutrality and independence. I therefore encourage the whole House to address this debate in order to tighten the conditions for the appointment of the State Attorney General. And I also urge the right. First I congratulate you on this new trip to the center, to see if you ever get to the center. And so that no one can accuse them that their proposal is demagogic and that they therefore demonstrate that they do so as an effective commitment to an improvement of the administration of justice, also demonstrate it by releasing other judicial or paralegal bodies of the highest rank. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Alonso Cuevillas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u47	Thank you, President. The truth is, I don't understand anything about what's going on with this debate this afternoon. The PP brings us a proposal for legislative reform arguing - and I open quotes -: 'Spanish society perceives a weakening of the principle of separation of powers and considers that attacks on judicial independence are taking place'. And so much so that there are attacks on judicial independence!, that we know very well because we are living it in the first person. But the most ironic of all is that the PP, the party that has or has had members who have made statements - which have been repeated all afternoon - like, for example: 'We will control the Second Chamber - refers to the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court - from behind'. Like, for example: Who has made Esquerra today, Junts per Catalunya and the rest of the independenceists 'do not have leaders because they are decapitated', Mariano Rajoy and the PP. And I make a note here. This statement shows that the cause against independence is a political cause, that they persecute us for thinking as we think, for defending the independence of Catalonia, for allowing a people to speak through the ballot box, that is why we have our comrades and our comrades in prison and in exile unjustly and the only thing we contemplate is that they deserve an amnesty for all of them and for all of them, and also for all the reprisals. [[Applauds]] Or, for example, when Fernández Díaz said, 'This is what the Prosecutor's Office does for you.' Let us remember now that this afternoon the recent judicial scandal - another - that splashes over the PP, the Kitchen case, that for those who are watching us and do not know it consists in the espionage maneuvers of the Ministry of the Interior of the Government of Mariano Rajoy to get the evidence - is that it is very ironic - of the exchequer of his same party, Luis Bárcenas! Or when the Greek report - which is the report that the Group of States against Corruption of the Council of Europe is making, and this Greek report has long ago - shows how bad Spain has been doing with the rotating doors, with the plugging of large multinationals in the private sector when it ends with the career in the public sector. And precisely of that the PP knows a lot, let's remember only a few names: Aznar and Luis de Guindos ended up in Endesa; Ángel Acebes, in Iberdrola; Rodrigo Rato - who is now in prison - in La Caixa, Bankia, Santander; Eduardo Zaplana, in Telefónica, or Josep Piqué, in Vueling. We have been able to see how the Prosecutor's Office acts because of the person, and if we do not look at what has happened to the Bourbon: its corruption - its corruption - and its escape from justice with the government's cover-up. It is shameful that a democratic country has a corrupt monarchy, but the most shameful thing is that the Government has helped it to flee to Saudi Arabia and live at the expense of all of us. We see how the prosecution should have taken precautionary measures to prevent the escape of the Bourbon. But reforming the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions so that it is supposedly more independent and thus guaranteed the separation of powers is again another irony, when two days ago the People's Party itself blocked the renewal of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, which is the governing body of the judges. Wow! And now, with this proposal that they bring us this afternoon, they want or pretend that the candidate or the candidate for the Attorney General of the State can be blocked as they have done with the council. Look, in this case, the law should not be reformed on the basis of whether or not the new State Attorney General falls to us. The main problem and debate that we should be having here today is what should be the model of the fiscal ministry of the twenty-first century, what should be its role in the criminal process and where its defence should be mandatory, what should be its role in the defence, veil and guarantee of fundamental rights and public freedoms. In short, we should be debating here a profound reform of the organic status, not making sterile debates that solve absolutely nothing. That is why we, our group, will vote against. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Our parliamentary group is going to vote against this proposal. This proposal by the People's Group on the amendment of Law 50/1981 reflects the amendment of the appointment of the Attorney General, which includes the need for Parliament to approve its suitability by a two-thirds majority, and that, in our view, runs counter to Article 124(4) of the Constitution. Therefore, it is simply a Copernican twist in the designation system but through the back door. One thing is to suggest that mechanisms should be introduced by which Parliament is involved, and another very different one is that its initiative should go beyond the constitutional mandate and that it should seek to repeal, de facto, article 124.4 of the Constitution. If this bill had been tabled by another party, I have no doubt that its members of the People's Party would argue that the purpose of the bill is to control the judicial system, break the separation of powers and kneel the Constitution in favor of anti-democratic interests. However, as it is the People's Party that tries to subvert with this proposal the Constitution in favor of its interests - to break the separation of powers, to secure the appointment of like-minded prosecutors and to corner those who are uncomfortable with it - they sell it to us as they seek to defend the independence, impartiality and neutrality of the public prosecutor general. Look at you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what you bring to the debate is a political obscenity. You are not interested in impartiality or neutrality or independence, because you have never believed or will believe in the separation of powers. Throughout their political career they have shown it countless times. Without going any further, right now, with its refusal to allow, as required by the Constitution, the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, which is two years late. But, of course, you want to continue to have an absolute majority in that body in order to continue to appoint conservative judges and then use them to judicialize political life and turn plurality into a crime, to open cases that have no more to do than fill the media with headlines, raising suspicions and opening inquisitorial proceedings against those of us who do not think like you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. If you were interested and interested that the public prosecutor or the public prosecutor would be impartial, neutral, independent, you would not have appointed José Manuel Maza as the public prosecutor in 2016. Do you remember? Maza, in addition to being elected by the Government of Mariano Rajoy, appointed Jesús Alonso Cristóbal, spokesman for the conservative Association of Prosecutors, as head of the National Court. In turn, he put Manuel Moix in the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, who had to resign in June 2017 after the publication that revealed that he owned 25% of an offshore company in Panama. And I'll tell you more about Manuel Moix. He tried to cancel the emails of Miguel Blesa, former president of Cajamadrid, a banking entity that the PP led to ruin. And without going very far, in this same Chamber, prosecutors José Manuel Maza and Manuel Moix and former Minister of Justice Rafael Catalá were reprobated for favoring and protecting Ignacio González, former President of the Community of Madrid involved in the Lezo case. Then Ignacio González, the advanced student of Esperanza Aguirre, told Eduardo Zaplana that the appointment of Moix as anti-corruption prosecutor would be literally - in quotes - cojonudo for the future of his judicial problems, and so it was, you named him as anti-corruption prosecutor. Do you also remember Consuelo Madrigal, the former general of the state who resigned for rejecting the pressures of former Justice Minister Rafael Catalá? Do you also remember when Mr. Torres-Dulce, the State Attorney General between 2011 and 2014, resigned due to the pressure of the PP in the Bárcenas case and, in addition, the persecution he suffered from later incarceration of the ex-Secretary of the People's Party? And do you remember, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, when you appointed the Cardinal General Prosecutor of the State during the governments of José María Aznar, famous for his criticism of the right to abortion, to equal marriage, to contraception or to divorce? What he called benefiting the - in quotes - vicious ends. Do you also remember when in 2017 the chief prosecutor of Murcia was removed for daring to investigate the corruption of the People's Party there? And that after his release there was public pressure and intimidation for having investigated his cases of corruption? It seems that of all this I am telling you do not remember because you have the big backpack and the very short memory, but, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we do not forget. In short, let us remember here that if there is a party that has intended to interfere in the action of the prosecutor's office and with more intensity besides in the times when the greatest cases of corruption came to you that has been yours, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party. It is obscene, from our point of view, that you, with that record, come here to present a proposal that basically seeks the dismissal of Prosecutor Dolores Delgado as Attorney General of the State. And it is very surprising that the People's Party, which has been a governing party for many years, which has exercised this constitutional prerogative in its entirety, has not previously intended to put forward this type of initiative. It seems that they only think of alternative ways and to block decisions when there are other legitimately constituted governments following the outcome of the ballot boxes. I'm done. You are not in favour of the neutrality or independence or impartiality of the appointments of the judiciary. What they want is to erase judges and prosecutors who do not submit to their thesis, to whom they cannot call on the phone to pressure them so that they do not make decisions contrary to their interests. The proponent, Mr Santamaría, said earlier that his party has three interests in the field of justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u50	Mrs. Velarde, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u51	I'm finishing up. We know them: to control it, to put the judges at the service of the defense of their corruptiles and to open trials and cases, which in the end do not go anywhere, against their political opponents. Therefore - I conclude - if you are so concerned about the independence, neutrality and impartiality of the judiciary, you fulfil the constitutional mandate and vote in favour of the renewal of the General Council of the judiciary, because you are only constitutionalists if you win and that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, has a name. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Velarde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, ma'am. Crespo. Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u53	Who's the prosecutor's office depending on? Who does it depend on? Yes, yes, of the government. Well, that's it! Remember, ladies? [[Applauds]] In these terms, the then President-in-Office, Mr Sánchez, was literally speaking in November last year during an interview with National Radio. The presenter was stunned by those statements, the legal community was puzzled by those statements, and what I can tell you as a state attorney is that you know what I thought? That our President of the Government was an ignorant, at least as far as legal matters are concerned, because we must be very ignorant in order to avoid in this way an essential principle of our rule of law, which is the principle of separation or division of powers, a principle which obliges the powers and areas of action of the three classic powers of the State, the Legislative Power - you, we, Your Honor -, the Executive Power - the Government - and the Judicial Power, within which the prosecutor's office is integrated, to be carried out by independent, autonomous and distinct bodies. Was Mr Sánchez acknowledging in those statements an express derogation from one of the modular principles of our representative democracy? I publicly confess that I never imagined that sanchism, not current socialism, dared to go so far. That is why I framed these offensive statements in the purest ignorance of the then candidate, Mr Sánchez. I underestimated him and I was wrong, because today, just ten months after those fateful declarations, this social communist government has shown clear signs of its ignorance, of course, but also that those declarations were framed in a conscious and deliberate contempt for our representative democracy and for our rule of law. Montesquieu, who has been quoted above, said in The Spirit of the Laws, that every man with power is inclined to abuse him, going as far as he finds limits. In order for it not to abuse power, it is necessary for power to stop power. Never - I repeat, never - in the recent history of our democracy have we seen more frontal and absolute attacks on the counter-powers that are called to limit the executive power in Spain; all this favored by an unexpected pandemic that has been conveniently used by this social communist government to impose a transformation of our model of society and to impose in our nation a change in the constitutional regime that approaches us - to where? - to the Bolivian chavista model that inspires in particular the Vice-President Iglesias and that, of course, fills the excessive desire for power of Mr. Pedro Sánchez. The worst government at the worst possible time. We have palmar examples, although unfortunately and due to time constraints I will not be able to stop with extension in each of them. I ask you to remember, ladies and gentlemen. Almost a year ago VOX president Santiago Abascal predicted and warned that the desecration of General Franco's tomb was just the excuse and that the true purposes of this left were to destroy the reconciliation of the Spaniards, to rewrite history, to delegitimize the monarchy and to overthrow Philip VI. Remember how they laughed at us, ladies? And I'm not just talking about politicians and the media who are supposed to be affected to the left. They don't smile so much today. We have seen frontal attacks and submission of prestigious and centenary institutions. We have seen it in the field of State Law with examples such as Mr Edmundo Bal and Mrs Carmen Tejera. We have seen palm examples in the area of the armed institute of the Civil Guard with the colonels Sánchez Corbí and Pérez de los Cobos. We have also seen how he has submitted himself to public institutions that are subject to the principle of neutrality by legal mandate such as the CIS, with Mr.Tezanos publishing always-cooked surveys at the service of the regime; like Spanish Television, a television that has been prostituted, despite being of all, with Mrs. Rosa María Mateo at the front, to the point of turning it into a means of propaganda, rather than information. And so we arrived at the assault on the Judicial Power, the last line of defense. This is what our Venezuelan and Colombian brothers warn us from their own experience when they tell us that, if the Judicial Power falls, Socialcommunism will have let go of the last tie that slows the change of regime in Spain. By the way, I am addressing Mr. Santiago specifically to tell him that I have been seeing the FARC drug terrorists with a lot of nerves lately since this summer I had the honour of strengthening relations with Colombian Congresswoman Margarita Restrepo. It is a fine example of how the politicization of justice leads to an absolute annihilation of the separation of powers. The best example in that country is how a politicized court of justice has agreed to the house kidnapping of President Uribe, to whom our party in Spain shows its full support. [[Applauds]] I would therefore ask Mr Santiago to keep the dogs tied up, which we already know are very much suited to be thrown into the mountains. When we were aware that, in fact, those statements by Mr Sánchez were not part of the purest ignorance but of a deliberate intention to annihilate the separation of powers, it was at the very moment when it was indecently announced how the then Minister of Justice and Member of the Socialist Party, Mrs Dolores Delgado, was to be appointed without a solution of general fiscal continuity of the State. The assault on the Public Prosecutor's Office and, therefore, the first assault on the judiciary had been carried out to the extent that the constitutionally mandated Public Prosecutor's Office had among its important functions specifically to ensure the independence of the courts; hence, its organic status determined as an imperative principle to act with complete independence. Of course, we announce to the People's Parliamentary Group that we will support the consideration of the initiative they have presented, because, as the spokespersons of other political groups - specifically Citizens - have previously commented, it is a partially coincident initiative that the VOX Parliamentary Group has registered to achieve a real goal: to achieve full independence of justice. Our parliamentary initiative is more ambitious from the moment we call for regulatory reform to set a ten-year and not four-year incompatibility period as currently envisaged. However, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, I have to tell you that being this necessary reform - and that is why we will support it - it was also necessary before. It was also necessary when you ruled by an absolute majority that would have allowed you to provide justice with the necessary means to avoid political inroads, but then you were not interested. What we have today is that they still do not really stand alongside the Spaniards and justice from the moment they come to this House with simple legal patches. But they have a real opportunity to stand alongside the Spaniards: the opportunity to support the motion of censure that we are going to put forward from the VOX Parliamentary Group during the month of September. The reality - and I conclude, Madam President - is that as long as the current Social-Communist Government remains in Moncloa the Spanish constitutional regime will remain in check and our powers threatened. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, to stop making numbers, to stop mathematics for mathematicians and to start practicing what the Spaniards demand of us: opposition, politics, resistance and victory, because by supporting this motion of censorship I can guarantee you that you will have moral victory with us. I conclude, Madam President. Having fulfilled yesterday 279 years of the death of an illustrious Spaniard, a brave Basque Spaniard, therefore doubly Spanish, our Admiral Blas de Lezo, I will quote you literally: Die, then, to live with honor! Live, then, to die honorable! May your words, ladies and gentlemen - and I am addressing the whole House - and your example inspire us on this dark night across Spain. We'll resist. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u54	Thank you very much, Mrs. Olona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u55	Mr. Santamaría, you've often had the day to go out, little week. The truth is that I'm still surprised how you're still committed to putting real landing strips for VOX populism, demagogy and terraplanism, we've seen it right now. You are committed to putting the stirrup in order for Mr. Abascal to get on his horse, and I believe you are not for that, but we see that you are still engaged. Mr Santamaría, you said in your speech that you were not here to occupy institutions, and it is true, these days we see that you are some to set up covert operations in ministries with reserved funds, that is what you are some to do. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, although it does not seem to you, we are in September, and I make this announcement to you - forgive me for the boldness - in case your ladies and gentlemen lose the notion of time and think that we are at the end of February, 20 February, when the Attorney General appeared in the Committee on Justice and was subjected to a ferocious attack. Look, we're not on that 28th day of that month, either, when you dated this bill that you bring to debate today and that you made hot after the political squabble that caught you for the solvent and decent defense that the prosecutor made in that intervention. It gives the feeling - and they forgive me if not - that this return to the new session has taken them with a changed foot; between internal adjustments they have allowed them to make a perfect 360-degree turn. You are the new PPL: Lampedusian People's Party; you are still almost all in the same place. Ladies and gentlemen, reading your proposal, I was debating between two ideas: either you have chosen the first one that was in the drawer, that I do not discard it either, or you have done what you usually do when you do not rule, that short-range policy, the referendum and the blockade; yes, ladies and gentlemen, the blockade. Mr. Married reminds me of that character that many of us remember from our childhood, the one that when I was losing I would take the ball and go home. Acting in opposition as the one who takes the ball and blocks the party is an unbuilding attitude for our institutions. Believe me, I'm really sorry. I would like to see in you more often the party that sits and leaves aside partyism to build positions of consensus, there you will always find us with the hand stretched out, but the reality is that your political cuisine, which you can, leads you to what leads you to. Ladies and gentlemen, you are bringing to the debate today a proposal for a law amending Law 50/1981, which regulates the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office, for the purposes of the appointment and incompatibilities regime, only, only and exclusively. Doesn't that seem strange to you? The spokesman for Citizens - who is not always so generous - has told them that it is short; imagine, it is obvious. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not very productive for you to bring your obsessions and prejudices to this House every time you intervene, because for this kind of policy we already have VOX on your right. However, to be fair, I would also like to go a little bit into this, ladies and gentlemen, because reform deserves it. On its basis, the explanatory statement refers to the recommendations that have been discussed here today by the Group of States against Corruption, the Greek Group of States against Corruption, although their conclusions, which are not in any way the ones that refer to, but rather the opposite of what was expressed, are totally wrong. Moreover, with regard to the appointment system, the proposed law seeks to circumvent the will of the constituent embodied in article 124.4 of the Constitution. There the established system is deeply democratic, since it involves the three powers of the State, and its proposal seeks to bypass that constitutional precept. You're obviating the Constitution. It can't be true. It is really surprising that you make a use - let me use the invented expression - of gruieresco - by the holes of the gruier - of the Constitution, of which you are only interested in a part and obviate, to your liking, the articles that do not interest you. Curious defense of it for a constitutionalist party. More. The regime of incompatibilities has been discussed. Doesn't it seem strange to you that they only propose it for the Attorney General's Office and not for other organs? Ladies and gentlemen, I try to analyse your proposal in the time I have. I think it is fair that citizens can attend to the reasoning beyond the political criticism, that there is. You, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, certainly not all - I do not want to be unfair - have a very peculiar vision and relationship with justice. I will not focus on how easy and what everyone has in mind, let us talk about the relationship with the prosecutors general of the state that has been mentioned here. Did not your proposal seem necessary in your years of government? It was a time when they appointed four prosecutors and ceased two. By the way, I do not like to remember, because pointing with my finger is ugly, but it is that this House in 2017, with 207 votes in favour, almost three fifths, approved a motion from my group to seek the dismissal of the Attorney General of the State for serious and repeated breach of his duties. Here we should point out to you, ladies and gentlemen, because the government at the time, yours, did nothing about it. Let us also talk about why they continue to practice political filibusterism in organ reform. Do you find any reason not to blush at them to refuse to sit down and remodel the bodies whose offices have already expired? Ladies and gentlemen, those who do not have a plan have an excuse, and their excuse is repeatedly called VOX, which is the one who writes their script and which you follow meekly. For what you have left, ladies and gentlemen! I'm done. I am also curious that your proposal calls for the immediate entry into force of a rule. With no retroactive effect and very far away from the time when it is a Government of his or her own that proposes to a public prosecutor, the rule can only be understood as one more element of his or her strategy of delegitimization and blockade; one more step. But, as we will always tell you, again and again, ladies and gentlemen, you have a government left for a while. For all this, my group will vote against this bill. With the benevolence of the President, I would also like to refer to the expression 'battles of my grandparents' that has been said in this House today. If my grandfather lived, I couldn't look him in the eye and tell him that, when life was played out for the future of Spain, it was a small battle. In his eyes and in his peasant hands there is more dignity than in his words. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u57	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on improving the network of public resources that facilitate co-responsibility for care. Mrs Berja Vega has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u58	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the other day I saw a friend publish in networks the following: 'Conciliation does not exist, it is mothers'. My friend Maria is right. Ladies and gentlemen, co-responsibility is the concept that feminists have used to politicise a more equal distribution of family burdens and care. We realized that casually, we only reconciled women. When feminists talk about co-responsibility, we are talking about the urgent need for democratic societies to involve men in care tasks. Men must assume their share of the work in the tasks of care, thus breaking with the roles and gender stereotypes that condemn women to double and triple days. According to the INE, the Spanish devote thirty-eight hours a week to the care of sons and daughters, and the Spanish twenty-three. The women of this country, ladies and gentlemen, are tired of doing the work that men don't do. Ladies and gentlemen, feminism is not about caring, feminism strives to ensure that care is not a burden on women's lives. A lot of women are sick of taking care of themselves. But when we talk about co-responsibility, we also refer to the obligation of public institutions to take their part in this task. Public resources are needed to ensure that women are not forced to opt for part-time work. Public resources are needed that go through the professionalization of the care itself and the recruitment and public management of the care itself, public resources that prevent women from being exhausted from assuming all the family burdens. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also tired of taking on tasks that must be answered from the public. And the difficulty is even greater when it comes to women who have single-maritime families. In these cases co-responsibility implies in an essential way to the public. These women either reconcile or go to unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, the feminist movement has been claiming labour rights for women for many years. The economic emancipation of women is because they all have decent work. Ladies and gentlemen, the class struggle is either feminist or not class struggle, because if it is not feminist, it is a struggle of male privileges. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the rights have always tried the same thing, always: that for women domestic and reproductive tasks were the main thing and, if they could be, the only thing they devoted to. But despite the obstacles, Spanish women were massively incorporated into work outside the home and also into their own money. However, every time he rules the right, there are setbacks. One example: their labour reform, the labour reform of the People's Party. With labour reform, thousands of women were expelled from the labour market and many others saw their working conditions precarious, because whenever women's rights were governed by the right, women's rights were once again questioned. Do you remember when Rajoy was saying that equal pay should not be involved? You remember, don't you, ladies? Well, that's it. But we don't have to remember Rajoy. It is that we are living it in the autonomous communities in which the right-wings supported by the ultra-right rule. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, what the Andalusian Council has said to a mother of a large family? You know that? That doesn't give you the large family title for not being married, ladies and gentlemen. But, yes, they give it to the father, because being a male in Andalusia has a completely different treatment. That's what the institutional machismo of the Andalusian Junta does, that's what it does. [[Applauds]] That and charge subsidies for women's associations. So that their lordships of the People's Party and of Citizens will then say that they are not at VOX's command in Andalusia. Well, no way! And, yes, the left-wing governments, like this coalition government, do what they do is repair the work atrocities that the right-wing imposes on women. Look, ladies and gentlemen, women with worse working conditions have experienced this pandemic as an unimaginable drama. Have you thought, ladies and gentlemen, about how a single mother who works in a supermarket and who in full confinement has had to choose between caring for her child or going to work? Have you thought about it? [[Rumors]] But women don't just take care of boys and girls. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u59	Mr. Tirado.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u60	We also care for the elderly and dependents. This pandemic has brought many things to light. One of them is that telework is full of traps for women. The pandemic has made it very clear to us that teleworking is neither a conciliation measure nor a co-responsibility measure, but a way of organizing work that has nothing to do with conciliation. Either you work or you take care of yourself; both things at the same time are impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, telework must be guaranteed and gender-sensitive. Otherwise, most of those who welcome him will be the same again, women. And in this way they will hardly promote in their businesses if those who are in the office are still the men. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the gaps in inequality in unemployment and recruitment data today are worrying. We need, ladies and gentlemen, feminist budgets that respond to inequality between women and men, and in that you will all have to be there. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a part of the reality that many of the women in this country are experiencing. If we do not promote co-responsibility, we will be condemning Spanish women to more precariousness, more work overload and more inequality. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for trying to improve this initiative by all the parliamentary groups; of all, with the exception of VOX, who has presented a contemptible macho argument against equality policies. You are the party of misogyny, you are the party of hatred. [[Applauds]] Who can say that women in Spain do not suffer discrimination? That's what you've presented. You claim that women in Spain do not suffer discrimination. Do you know who's thinking of saying that? Only those who think of being accomplices to the inequality between women and men and also to the macho violence, only you. We thank the rest of the groups for the proposals they have made. In all of them you also accept the three points of our GNP. But they incorporate other issues that fall within the framework of social dialogue...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u61	Mrs. Berja, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u62	I'm finishing up. ...and that we understand that they have to be left in that context, they have to be settled in that context. And they also present other initiatives with themes that move away from the initial spirit of this initiative. I'm done, Madam President. This government has made a public bet. To strengthen the public is to strengthen the resources that women and men will have to deal with the care of children, older persons and dependent persons, and in this line we present this initiative. This in the Socialist Group is a priority. I call on you to support this initiative so that it is a priority for all and for all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Berja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also adopt a position on this occasion, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca, is speaking.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. The limitation of time prevents me from extending about the abundant words that accompany this parliamentary initiative, which turns the needs of Spanish society around the care and care of dependents, children and elderly people into canijas. It would have been preferable to avoid demagoguery and empty literature in exchange for promoting diaphanous commitments in favour of the titanic role of women, co-responsibility, reconciliation of family, work and personal life, maternity protection policies, better social services and, through money, rigorous implementation of the Dependency Act. I have tabled an addendum amendment because, paradoxically, three years ago, the Congress approved at the request of the Socialist Group a very broad PNL whose content ridicules the tiny measures proposed this afternoon. The difference, of course, is that then you, Mrs Berja, were in the opposition and today prefer pyrotechnics and balances not to bother the government with demands. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u65	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I do not know whether this proposal is intended to give another collage to Podemos, of those that are being given recently by the Socialist Party, because it is incomprehensible that, being in the government, proposals such as the one that has been brought here today, unless it is intended to affect the department, in this case the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Ministry of Labour itself, that could have competence in what is proposed. What they had to do all this time was to put these measures in place, because what you can't do when you start school is to say that if a child gets sick they can pay the parents, the father or the mother, but if their partner has to stay at home, then not; and then another one comes out and says yes. So, what's going to happen? Yes or no? That's what you had to say here: listen, all of you know that if your son gets sick and your partner goes to work too; or not. But we have to explain it, we have to say it, and so people are satisfied, not counting here things that we can all agree on in the speech. You can do it; better, it's not that you can do it, it's that you should do it. And with regard to dependency, please, it takes face to be in the Government of Spain and talk about dependency and do nothing. Look, the communities don't get the money, they're the ones who pay for dependency. What is it that people are killing themselves with dependence, and those positions occupy them almost all women, yes. [[Applauds]] And what does the government do? Don't give what is right, what the law says; it doesn't give. [[Mrs. Berja Vega makes gestures to the speaker]] It's my head. What do you mean, they're gonna start giving it already? Or are you going to say that the budget was Montoro's? Hey, no, do things. Bring here a decree, bring here a bill saying they're going to pay for the dependency, and you'll see how we approve it, we approve it, UPN approve it, and I'm sure many more too. Why don't you bring him in? Because they have no desire to bring him. And if not, why is the Ministry of Social Affairs if it is not going to solve these problems? Therefore, less speech and more money for dependency, clarify what families have to do if their children get sick in school and if they get the companions of their sick children. Meanwhile, as my partner has rightly said, games of artifice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u67	Thank you, Mr. García Adanero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs Crespo. Also for the Joint Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the last floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u68	Thank you, President. We are pleased that there is talk of conciliation and that there is talk of the responsibility of public institutions in taking care. Conciliation is a tool that the feminist movement has put in place to ensure the care of life. Feminism is a battle for life, but it goes far beyond schedule. I'm going to set a practical example. Now, when schools begin, quarantine measures require that if there is only one child who gives positive the whole class has to go home. This creates two problems for us. The first is that your Government does not guarantee paid leave for parents to care for children, and the second, for example, that our municipalities have wanted to carry out a programme of public kangaroos that they have not been able to carry out because they are small municipalities, because the LRSAL does not allow it. LRSAL is the law that controls the expenditure of local entities and does not allow for the hiring of more staff or the spending of most of the remaining staff. Do you know what this means? That it will continue to be women who take care of it or those rich families who can pay for the kangaroos. Feminism poses a model change, and it has to do with the living conditions of women, but also of communities; it has to do with public policies that are much more linked to sovereignty, to the economy and to the redistribution of wealth than to timetables. We're going to continue building feminism to change everything from town halls, whatever it takes. Let us hope that you will fulfill and do the favor of putting public institutions at the service of life, not the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, Citizens is a project of equality for all Spaniards in all corners of Spain. And we cannot talk about equality without also talking about co-responsibility in family care. I believe that no one escapes in pandemic times how important it is to improve the network of public resources that facilitate co-responsibility for care. The pandemic has shown many deficits in our society. In fact, we saw it in the Social Reconstruction Group, and one of the main deficits we saw is the difficulty with which we find families, women above all - because, unfortunately, the majority of care continues to weigh on our backs - in order to be able to care for dependent people, children, girls and the elderly. We therefore believe that this GNP is in the right direction. But I regret to tell you that you are currently forgetting the central problem of conciliation: care, co-responsibility and, therefore, equality in the middle of school. There is no more peremptory need for care and reconciliation than that of the parents, the families we have to take care of our children, our daughters, our elders, quarantine dependents without a positive CRP, and for those who do not currently have solutions or relief in the workplace. For this reason and with the constructive spirit that characterizes us Citizens since the beginning of this unfortunate crisis, we want and propose a solution. We are presenting an amendment that improves the proposal that you are presenting to us. We want to respond to one of the big concerns that families are facing today, because it's what families are talking about in their homes, it's what families are talking about in the park, when friends, friends, parents, family members are called on the phone. Currently one of the big problems is what I do if my child goes to school, doesn't work, but he has to go home because he/she has to stay in advance; what I do if I have a dependent person at home that I have to take care of because he/she is infected, he/she is in a preventive quarantine. That is the current problem of most of the citizens of our country. This is what we need to solve among all of us. We have to take care of our children, our elders, we have to take care of those who care, but we also have to take care of their livelihood at the end of the month, their job. Conciliation is a virtuous circle in which each point, each of them is very important. And what we must do is that this chain does not break in the parents, and especially in the mothers, who are the ones supporting the entire family units. The Royal Decree 8/2020 of 17 March, in order to deal with situations of conciliation, gave some solutions establishing the preferential nature of teleworking, establishing the MeCare Plan, which allows workers to adapt or reduce the working day, reaching even one hundred percent. But it is insufficient; in fact, it is being criticized. Why? Because it is not a project that addresses the reality of all people, because not all jobs allow teleworking and because this plan also implies a wage reduction that not all households can afford. That is why we need to talk about conciliation options. And also, don't forget about the self-employed. If we talk about inequality, it is those who are most affected when we talk about conciliation, because they really cannot accept a reduction in the working day. Self-employed persons who are not beneficiaries of a cessation benefit are unable to reconcile. It is therefore clear that there are limits to co-responsibility and conciliation at this time which affect self-employed persons and self-employed persons. That is why our amendment seeks to resolve it. How can we do that? Establishing an extraordinary benefit that compensates for the reduction of working hours or economic activity, recognizing the right to telework, establishing that no family, no self-employed person is harmed in their economy directly by the mere fact that they are affected by the health needs of the pandemic. That is why we hope that this amendment will be accepted, because it affects and resolves the situation of Spanish families. We want reconciliation to be real and effective for self-employed workers, also for self-employed workers and that this does not diminish the economic capacity of households. Citizens are the party of families and that is why our constructive position addresses this reality. We believe that Spain cannot allow a single family that wants to have children to do so because of lack of means and uncertainty. Eliminating these fears and this uncertainty is in your hands, and we hope they will not fail. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also fix its position at this time, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u72	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG agrees with the objective of promoting co-responsibility and promoting conciliation, but the rather generic, non-legislative proposal submitted by the PSOE does not go beyond a declaration of intent, and that if the government party had a real interest in this matter, it should act and provide public policies with those resources which they consider to be scarce, and indeed do so in collaboration with the autonomous communities, which have competence in this matter, rather than merely bringing a non-legislative proposal urging the government to do so. Finally, we believe that in this case it is much better to give wheat than to preach. From the BNG's point of view, we must act on two levels, in social and educational and economic terms, in the first case in order to break the patriarchal gender roles that impose on women certain tasks, and, specifically, care, but we also know that inequality has an economic root, and that is why we must also act in this field, for example, by moving towards another distribution of the working day - working to live, not living to work - less hours and more distributed, by opening the debate on the thirty-five hour day or by acting urgently so that, in time of coronavirus, co-responsibility and reconciliation can be a reality, for example with a paid permit for parents, parents or mothers of minors who have to be confined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u73	Thank you, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u74	Thank you, Madam President. The other day I came across a protest in the center of Madrid - it wasn't very big - of those people who say that the virus is a lie, that is the 5G, that they don't smoke, that they don't have to be vaccinated. It does not deserve any intellectual consideration, but it does seem to me that it is a symptom of what is happening, and that is that we are experiencing a stage of disorientation and anxiety. There are many people who do not know what is going to be of us as a society, and that is not because they do not smoke, it is because everyday life has become very uncertain. Without going further, right now, during this week, which is the starting week of the school year, there are many families, hundreds of thousands of mothers and fathers, but also teachers and teachers, boys and girls who do not know what awaits them when they return to the school year, at the start of the school year. It has been a disaster, with some exceptions; a disaster in lowering ratios by hiring more teachers; a disaster in some of the measures proposed, where there are more resources or where there are more permits. The COVID could not have known it was going to surprise us, but the school course cannot be a surprise, because it starts every year in the same week, and still turns out to surprise us. I read this GNP, and the reasons it has are not that they are well-intentioned, it is that I share them absolutely; I am almost tempted to tell you with a certain sarcasm that I wish you were in the government to do so, because I share everything, I share everything that the GNP says. However, in the current situation we know that in reality those who do not have money to pay caregivers will have very difficult work of conciliation: either they will have to go to grandparents and grandmothers, who are also at risk population, or they will have to reduce time and salary, who usually reduce it who have lower salaries, that in our country, because of the wage gap - you know better than I - it is always women; and it is not known what they will do who will have to care for their children, those children who are not infected but have to be in quarantine. We told it from More Country in May in an amendment and we say it again today, and I hope it will be accepted: it takes a hundred percent paid leave and leave so that it is not the woman who stays at home that is non-transferable and equal. As long as this is not accepted, Spanish families will continue to suffer from anxiety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u75	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Nova. Also for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u76	Good afternoon. We have this proposal - and some colleagues have already mentioned it - and it seems a lie that you do not realize that you are in the government. Of course, it is well the scenario that has occurred here of discourse of class struggle, of discourse of feminism, but reality we all know it: the Institute of Women pointed out that five million women are non-professional caregivers, practically the equivalent of what would be 1.8 in jobs. But when one enters into the text of the proposal that we are asked to make, this speaks of improving, it speaks of pushing, it speaks of incorporating, and of course we all agree on these approaches. But it's about landing in reality, and landing in reality is talking about the care of children in these pandemic times, about the uncertainties that colleagues who have preceded me about what are going to be the instruments that families will have in case their child comes home for a possible contagion at school. And the doubts are those of parents in relation to this situation and also those of small businesses or of human resources managers about what they will do when they have all these effects with parents in the middle of the school year. You do not respond to all of this, and the Government has so far made some twenty-five royal decrees-urgent laws. But it seems that this is not urgent to deal with it immediately and to respond to people. We have tabled an amendment which we have been told that they would not accept, perhaps because they do not want to land in reality either. Do reality know what it is? Incorporating, when you speak of dependence, that the contributions of the State to the Autonomous Communities are at least the same as the Autonomous Communities have been putting up to date. The unit has so far been financing it by the Autonomous Communities. In the case of Catalonia from 2012 to 2017, around 2871 million euros. Money that the State has not taken to the autonomous communities, money that the State has not taken in the case of Catalonia, about 367 million euros a year. Only if there are these resources can we talk about dependence and caring for people. Therefore, I think you can save the theater that we have assembled today. Of course, we agree on the non-legislative approach, but you too would have to have much more support from this House of Members. We have to talk about the amendments, it is not worth presenting a low-profile thing for everyone to approve, but not wanting to talk to any parliamentary group to accept their contributions. This is the way you are doing politics that you are showing us in this legislature. Twenty-five royal decree-laws; surely there are so many because of the pandemic, but sure also that they are all due to an attitude of governing by pulling miles alone and without any complicity with the rest of parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u77	Thank you, Mr. Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Nova. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u78	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I'm sorry, but I have to make a preview. I'm going to repeat myself, and I'm going to repeat myself a lot to see if they have a bit of the subject left. You know, Congresswoman, I don't doubt your feminism at all. We have many different views, but as feminists we are allies and, as an ally, I am not able to understand that being your group in the government presents me with a GNP instead of publishing the measures in the BOE, which is how they actually have a translation to reality. There's something else that surprises me. You said that we all agree on the points. Well, okay, okay, either, because that's about calling for improvements, pushing, improving the care network... man, before improving it would almost have to be created. 0-3 is not guaranteed, it is not universal; without 0-3 there is no care network. That of dependence - and I stop not to say something excessive - has explained it and I was going to say also the millions that owe to the Generalitat of Catalonia. Dependency is not covering at all the needs of our elderly people. We have this map, therefore, and the network does not exist fully nor is it consolidated and you say we improve it. Man, no! Instead of asking for improvements, let us make changes at once, because what we need for your speech, which I share one hundred percent, to have some usefulness are changes, not small touches, not small improvements, not impulses of policies that we have already seen are useless. They have already referred to our amendment - I see that if they had presented it with absolute unanimity - which is the drop due to temporary incapacity for work. We have not resolved this issue. We have asked it in the Health Committee, I do not remember how many times, practically in every session, but it is now being asked until the Government of my nation, the Generalitat of Catalonia. It is the easiest and fastest system that generates less legal doubt that that money will be received. Because, that's another: creating a lot of help, creating a lot of paid permits, if they don't pay, it's useless and it still generates more anxiety. So, what's the picture we have? We have a plan to take care of the following framework: wage gap, approximately 22% of the most frequent wage, because here too the data must be taken very well framed. What is the percentage of women who claim to have taken a partial reduction in their work by caring for children or dependent persons? 95% are women, 95% are women, 95% are women, 95% are women, 95% are women, 95% are women, 95% And then we have the pension gap, which is about 34.64 per cent. All right! In this we do not, as they have said, count either the self-employed or the people who are in the submerged economy. Well, and besides, it's not pandemic data, it's data from the end of 2019. It is obvious that with this articulation of work, if the only thing we raise is the possibility of a reduction or a leave without pay, who will leave the job, again, it is women, it is we. So what happens to us then? For we never break the vicious circle of economic inequality and female poverty and transfer it to our children. So, our approach is to do what is necessary and to do it through the BOE, not through this House's bulletin. They approve the discharge by ILT in the case of mandatory quarantine by contact and, if they do not want, they cannot or are not willing to do so, they transfer the funds and the competences and we will do so, which we have perfectly seen how it has to be done. With regard to the other two proposals, more of the same, please do so, let us agree, but do so. Who has the basic labor regulations? You guys. If we do, they will take us to the Constitutional and tell us that we do not comply with Article 149.7 of exclusive competence! Just look at the situation we're in! They won't let us do it, and if we do, they'll take us to the Constitutional. I mean, the horticultural dog. I therefore hoped that we would be voted in favour of the amendment, that we would accept it, but, since we do not, I regret to say that we have to stand in the way of abstention. Remember always that we are allies and, therefore, before even presenting it, speak with us, use sorority, seek our knowledge and seek our knowledge, which is the way in which feminism braides their networks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs Vallugera. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Nova. Mrs Toscano de Balbín has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal has not been called 'we're going to decide what you're going to do in your homes' because it was very bad. This proposal is a set of empty concepts, but with two very clear intentions: the first is to victimize women and remind us that father State and mother feminism will take care of us and protect us because women are disabled beings. And the second intention is, as I said before, to get into our homes. On the first, it is already clear your intention to impose the gender perspective and feminism on all your initiatives and on all aspects of our life, what happens is that with your gender delusions no longer you yourselves are clear because even days, for example, as in this proposal, say that gender is a patriarchal imposition based on sexual differences, but odd days say that gender is chosen. I hope you'll ever explain it to me. [[Applauds]] Nor are we very clear to which collective of these you make up want to give priority this time. In theory it is women, but we also do not know what they mean by women because their Equality Minister has no idea what a woman is, nor do we know for whom this proposal is for. [[Applauds]] What is clear to us is that all these proposals are empty concepts, as empty as their false defence of freedom and their false concern for dependent people. With regard to their second intention, that of sending over what we have to do in our homes, they want to do so through the imposition of the gender perspective on telework and they want to do so also by imposing co-responsibility. We all know that this involves an endless number of chiringuitos, associations and observatories that are going to control us and that are going to control compliance with the feminist regulation. You are committed to re-educating us and I don't think you want to realize that the family is the one to educate and not you. I have to tell you - do not finish assimilating, but do it, please - that you are no one to enter our homes and our families, no one. [[Applauds]] And if they are so concerned about care and dependent people, they have the Dependency Act, their Dependency Act, and they have the resources of those who need it, because this law has ultimately been left in a pure propaganda law. With regard to the family, it is obvious that you have no right to plan how a family organizes its care and care for dependent persons. The problem is that you don't like the family and want to replace it with the state. I don't know if the following is going to be the state regulating family relations, telling us the number of children we have to have, the turn of bottles, who and who we give it to or the brand of diapers we have to buy. This proposal is an intolerable interference, proper to a totalitarian government, and make it very clear that the VOX Parliamentary Group is going to defend with its fingernails and teeth our right to educate and care for our families as we see fit. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am the mother of two children and, in the interests of their happiness and dignity, I will take care of them as I see fit. I'm not willing for you to come and tell me how I have to take care of my children. I'm not ready for the police to come to my house someday... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u81	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u82	...if I'm suspected of not applying the gender perspective to my children. You say this proposal is essential and I say no. Precisely because it's totalitarian. What is essential is that you cease your criminal management of this crisis, which has cost the lives of fifty thousand Spaniards and has caused hundreds of thousands of unemployed people. [[Applauds]] What is essential is that they equip the Dependency Act with the means. And what is most essential is that they take their dirty hands out of our families. [[Applauds]] Much is at stake: our health, our lives - literally - and our freedoms. Faced with the totalitarian plan of the left, which invents victims to violate rights and wants to enter our homes to tell us what we have to do and impose the feminist regulation, VOX demands an efficient allocation of resources for dependent people, VOX demands the family and the autonomy of the family and VOX demands freedom. Today it is in our hands that freedom prevails over ideology and that the resources of the State that the Spaniards bring, the fruit of much work and much effort, cease to be allocated to their chiringuitos and their ideological impositions and go once and for all to the Spaniards who really need it. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Toscano. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs García Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u84	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, after this crisis, we do not get stronger: we get more unequal. What a paradox! With the most feminist and progressive government in history, women are more unequal. There is more unemployment, more wage gap, more poverty and more precariousness. [[Applauds]] During the state of alarm, children's schools, schools, day centres, and the Government were closed down without an alternative plan for families, for women who were at home teleworking, for women who went out daily to their jobs, to a police station, to a supermarket or to a residence, the large ones abandoned by their Government. And today Churches says they want to load the system of residences. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, 76% of health professionals are women. Do you know that the most contagious country in the world is Spain? Is that how you protect women? Have you already paid the allowance to housewives? Widows are unassisted because they have not been able to manage their widowhood benefits. There is no agreement yet to legislate telework. Take the step of the People's Party, which presented a much more ambitious proposal for new formulas to be developed by law to facilitate conciliation, co-responsibility, teleworking and the rationalization and flexibility of schedules. But unfortunately you are late, always very late and, meanwhile, women are left behind. You are talking about the feminization of poverty, but you, gentlemen of the government, have put a woman's face to poverty with her regression, that of PSOE and that of Podemos. A government that is forcing women to choose between their family and their work, and you don't provide solutions; since Pedro Sánchez came to the government there are 331,103 women in unemployment. A government that is forcing the self-employed to choose between their family or business. A government that is forcing women to take advantage of the time reduction. A government that has 99% of the unsolved minimum income applications, leaving many vulnerable families at the stake, but also leaving 100,000 single-parent households, 90% of which are women. [[Applauds]] The People's Party asks you to speed up processing, resolve and already pay the minimum living income. A government that has turned its back on very feminized sectors: tourism, commerce and hospitality. UGT's secretary general says the minister thinks the ERTEs have been paid, but that's not true. That's not true, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Party asks you to pay now and also to extend the ERTE until spring on equal terms, as they are now. It speaks of co-responsibility, Your Honor, but to advance in equality and co-responsibility we must do so from the point of view of conciliation, and it is the People's Party that proposes a conciliation plan that addresses families that cannot reconcile or families with children, dependent persons or older persons in charge of them and that creates employment for women and young people. Far from it is the promise of the President of the Government to universalize the education from 0 to 3 years that he proposed to be in charge of the municipalities. They now prefer to confiscate municipal savings. That's his government. You say that the professionalization of care must be promoted. I'm sure you know that Castilla and León is the autonomous community that creates the most jobs linked to dependency. Funds and funding must be allocated to promote professionalization. So far, in this legislature, zero euros. In order to promote professionalization, waiting lists must be removed. In the first six months of the year, 32,000 dependants died on the waiting list. They strengthen home care, but also strengthen Spain's residential system. They come to give us co-responsibility lessons and what has happened is a lay-off on the safe return to the classrooms. The Government should have given security to families, but they have transmitted uncertainty and unhinderedness. The Government has sidelined itself and it has been the communities that have taken decisions. The People's Party requests a home care service for families with difficulties in reconciling for the coronavirus. And what government are you really in? Because with two governments in one, it's hard to know what they want. Are they in the government that dismisses the job leave for parents with children in quarantine but with negative PCR or in the government in which Churches corrects Montero and says they will be able to charge the leave? What government are you in, Your Honor? [[shows a press clipping]] [[shows another press clipping]] PSOE or Podemos? How many women do you think you're going to help your GNP? It is an empty GNP, an inane GNP, a GNP which does not contribute anything to women. You clap, clap and clap. They applaud when measures are late and applaud also when measures are ineffective. It is feminism of banner, now feminism of salon,...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u85	Mrs. Garcia, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u86	I'm finishing up, President. ... the exclusive feminism, the one who chooses who is feminist and who does not, the one who confronts. The feminism that is not reflected in the Official State Gazette is precisely the one that can change the lives of many women and it is the one that you do not do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u87	Thank you, Mrs. García. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Nova. Mrs Pozueta Fernández has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. All people need life-long care, all of them. In Euskal Herria Bildu we welcome this proposal not of law with much respect, but at the same time we sense in it an act of mere propaganda, in view of the gallery, because we fear that these words do not translate into concrete actions. The pandemic has brought to light all the shortcomings of the care model. We saw in the spring and again now in this second wave that has failed the model of care for the elderly, and we saw and saw again in this early school year that the care of our creatures is not guaranteed because there is no real reconciliation between our working life and the responsibility to care for the people in our environment who need it. In Euskal Herria Bildu we say that we deserve a country that takes good care of citizens and that also takes care of those who take care of them. We believe that the citizenship of the rest of the peoples living together in the State deserves the same. It is therefore essential to ensure a sound, well-coordinated and well-funded public system; it is urgent to ensure public control of the centres and a review of the current model of care for the elderly. The proposal aims to promote the professionalization of care in order to recognize these occupations at work and economically. We can say that the professionalization of care in large proportion is already taking place, but, today, this does not imply recognition or dignity of such work. The tandem woman and care is maintained, and in the patriarchal social and economic system of capitalism it involves undervaluation and precariousness. A very clear example is that of domestic workers, the least recognized and most precarious sector that can be given. We speak in many cases of semi-slavery: domestic workers, migrant women... Transnational care chains have been created. There is much to say about the cleaning sector, impoverished, feminized, this sector so essential always, and more in these days of pandemic. We continue to talk about the workers of the residences, so essential always, and more in these days. Caretakers in capitals who just come to collect the minimum wage because they have had to do business with the care of our grandmothers and grandparents, and to do business is precarious the work of those who care for them. In these days of beginning of course in education we also remember the children's schools from 0 to 3 years, in whose sector work preferably women who care and educate our creatures and whose working conditions are far from worthy. Urgent, urgent beyond words, actions that distinguish these sectors of the care system, collective agreements that collect this recognition and concrete in wages and working days away from the current precariousness. A job reform, budget allocations, resources for the autonomous communities. Dignity to all those precarious women who make us continue to move forward and live, because today more than ever we have finally seen those who wanted to hide it who were them, yes, the invisible, the essentials to sustain us. In these times when telework has taken on more presence we see that on many occasions this is not the formula that resolves family reconciliation. Unlimited telework can become more control, endless days, isolation and slavery for women who opt for it. It is necessary to regulate it so that it can be an option that facilitates conciliation. However, if we talk about conciliation, we would first have to start with an approach of conciliation and co-responsibility that affects women and men, backed by a recognition of social rights lost in years of cuts, with quality employment and avoiding directing women towards partial work as a star policy of conciliation. It must be made clear that co-responsibility is possible, facilitated and learned from childhood, although here we see that many people have not yet learned it. Therefore, in the near future the perspective may be different from the current one if care and co-responsibility appear within the educational curriculum, from early childhood education to the age of eighteen. I conclude by saying that in co-education we see the key that opens the door to the cultivation of egalitarian identities that care and know how to care, that make responsible decisions regarding motherhood and paternity, that provide a non-sexist education, that overcome the stereotype of traditional family and promote masculinities and egalitarian paternity. We see the importance of rebuilding community relations as a support for life. This logic has already been put into practice during the pandemic in countless municipalities and has meant a great learning. All people are vulnerable and interdependent and, therefore, we need each other, let us never forget it. We will support this motion to give them the opportunity to demonstrate that they want to move from words to facts and, if they do, to be able to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Pozueta. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. There's a positive part and a negative part as it's the last. The negative side is that what many of the speakers have said is repeated. You have presented here - let me say it with all your affection - a kind of lettuce proposition: it does not bring calories, but it is not harmful to health and, in addition, decorates any dish. The non-law proposal you have submitted has more or less that meaning. There are two issues in the analysis of the situation that are of themselves important and that have been aggravated by the crisis of COVID-19. On the one hand, the issue of co-responsibility and inequality of care and, above all, the future of care. The analysis of the situation you are doing is real. In the introduction of GNP we have a worrying picture, the raw reality, and we are therefore not going to repeat what has been said about this situation. But this situation is not from now on, but it comes from afar. The feminization of care is an undeniable fact, Mrs de VOX, and it has historically been because the established social model has been shaped in this way. It's not a negative fact in itself, it doesn't have to be, the problem is when it's only women, because men don't, those who only care because it's men who dedicate themselves to other men, preventing women from also being able to devote themselves to other professional, playful or intellectual men. The non-law proposal says what needs to be done, but it has two issues to resolve. On the one hand, it does not say how to do it and, on the other hand, it is addressed to those who are not always competent in the matter, because you have to know perfectly well that there are a number of issues that correspond to the Autonomous Communities, and they are already doing so. But there is a third very important question that I will have to repeat to you, even if you are tired of hearing it because we have all told you. You have the government; it is not necessary to bring a non-law proposal saying this. Do it and bring it already written, already resolved, instead of bringing it here, moreover, without any commitment of anything. Therefore, you are not opposition, you cannot present a non-law proposition as if it were from others. You have to bring something that's in your hand. But it is that, moreover, they do not concretely; they only make a statement of vague and ethereal principles, except in point two, that I understand that it is concrete a little more, although it is not clear whether you are precisely asking the professionals who are still acquiring more professionalization or that we need more professionals in this matter. In any case - and responding to the topic of dependence - of course it is; of course the Government is not responding, but I have already been here for a few three years, and I started with Zapatero claiming money for dependence, because it is the autonomous communities that were paying, in the case of Euskadi, for example. But it is that Mr García Adanero - and we have also asked the People's Party -, of course, to smile, when one is on that bench, when the other does it wrong or vice versa, seems to me a very nice game, but nothing effective. No one here has complied with the Dependency Act, neither of the two governments. Some autonomous communities at times suffered more and others less, but some always. In this regard, I believe that we have done our duty in this area in Basque, and we have many approaches that have been taken from the different institutions, both from the outside parliaments and from the Basque Government; and not only at the time of the pandemic, but also previously, but it has caught us a little more prepared. I believe that the Emakunde report, dealing with COVID-19 and building the future from equality, recommendations and measures, is a very interesting report that I think would have been very good for them if they had read it, because they had taken more ideas and it would be very good for other institutions to also implement the measures that are proposed in it. I'm done, Madam President, because I see I don't have any more time. The challenge we have of equality and co-responsibility is a collective challenge; we can give a great boost. Society itself and economic and social actors do not become active agents of such transformation; those of us who participate in the problem must become agents of solution. Although on too many occasions the opposite is created, inequality does not arise either spontaneously or casually; on the contrary, it is a human construction, a consequence of the model of society that we have been internalizing for many, many years. It is in our hands to change this model. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u91	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Nova. By Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Fernández Castañón.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u92	Good afternoon. Before I begin my intervention, they will allow me to think for a moment in Asturias, in my land, which celebrates today, as Extremadura, its day, and to address to all the people who this summer have visited Asturias on their holidays, which is the country of many and many, and which has all the conditions to be able to have employment and to develop lives; it has the Asturian language and has the language of Eonaviego. I'm not much of a flag, but how voices vibrate when they talk about their home. [[Continue your bable intervention.-Applause]] And now I am going with the non-legislative proposal brought to us by the Socialist Group, which we are glad that it is coming to this House. The effects of crises have women's hands - hands, back, the whole body - as well as precariousness and poverty we know well that they have a woman's face. In 2008 we saw that the consequences of the economic crisis, materialized in cuts in public services, fell sharply on the backs of women and especially those in a situation of greater vulnerability and precariousness. We were told by the feminist movement on 8-M: when women stop, it's for the world. And it's that on March 8, 2018 - I'm going to bring you a little bit of recent history that I'm sure there are those who don't have enough - it was a real strike, because a lot of women stopped all the work, not just paid employment. The analysis and mandate are clear: by 2020 we cannot make the same mistakes again. And it is that the characteristics of the current health crisis show us that not only health is a common good to protect, but we must also give effect to the WHO definition: talking about physical, mental and social well-being, and not just about diseases or diseases and their absence. Health understands care because all -surprise!- sooner or later we will need to be cared for. But, of course, here I bring the words of Silvia Federici: what they call love is unpaid work. We must break with the cultural construction that makes care work mostly women's and, in fact, we have a 2018 UGT report that says that 90% of them are women's. And what happens, in fact, when such care is not assumed within the family or the bonds is that it is also mostly women who develop them, and they may be paid for, but that does not mean that it is a job done with rights. Sedoac and the Homeland say so with total clarity, and the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Equality listen, we know that they are listening: ratification of ILO Convention 189. Regulating labor rights is getting inside the houses? Then even if we talk about labour rights, we have to do it. Because making feminist policies isn't just about breaking glass roofs, it's about stopping sticky floors. [[applause]] By the way, I don't see the spokesman for VOX, but I was going to recommend that the Convention on the Rights of the Child be read before it comes with the dictatorship's progress of 1959, because I'm sure he'll find answers to many of the pampines he said. [[Applauds]] But in addition to talking about totalitarianism, I would also say that if he likes governments as much as Bolsonaro, there is totalitarianism, as Damares Alves says, which boys have to wear in blue and girls have to wear in pink. Don't talk about totalitarianism because you know a lot, I'm sure you can teach lessons, but not in democracy. [[Applauds]] So let's make it clear: co-responsibility - what a beautiful name it has! Let's not use it in vain - it means a public care system, it means universality of the public school from 0 to 3, it means remunicipalization of the home help service. This task is done here, it is done in the Government of the State, but it is also done, it has to be done in each autonomous community and in each municipality. All administrations have to feel challenged by responsibility, by democracy and - I will use the Greek sense of the term - by not making the idiot. Let us be at the forefront of putting life in the centre, generating quality employment, guaranteeing conditions for the health of citizens and not at the expense of the usual ones, women, and especially the precarious ones, migrants, racialized ones, those who are in an irregular situation. There has already been much talk of teleworking and of course it must be regulated with a feminist perspective; by the way, a feminist perspective for everything because it is shown to work much better. We are very pleased that the Socialist Group - and I am finished, Madam President - is bringing this initiative today. Let us make this law, let this be law of what we speak of; it is that it already has a name: law of co-responsible time. We hope that in these times for alliances - and I agree with what the spokesman for the Republican Left said -, for rowing together and for sorority is, in fact, the proposing group, the Socialist Group, ally of that law when it comes to this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Berja Vega, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u94	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u95	All right, thank you very much. The non-legislative proposal shall be voted on in its terms. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on rationalizing the structure of state administration. [[File number 162/000224]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u96	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on rationalizing the structure of State administration. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Navarro López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I was going to start my speech by doing what I thought would be a rhetorical question, but the truth is that I have to ask the question literally: Where is the government? And I don't wonder, they ask hundreds of thousands of Spaniards that this photo will obviously clarify the doubts they may have about it. [[The Lord]] The government that promised in its coalition agreement to make better use of public resources and improve the efficiency of public spending, that is the most expensive government in our history, is the worst government at the worst time for our country. We are the country of the European Union with the worst fall in gross domestic product, 18%, the largest, of course, in the last 80 years, with 24% more unemployment than just a year ago and in a national emergency caused by the COVID-19, which has caused 50,000 Spaniards to lose their lives, twice as much as the government recognizes, according to a part of the government itself: the Carlos III Institute of Health. And all this in the week when 11 million students and teachers re-enter the classrooms without a single protocol for the whole country. The question that many are asking is what I asked myself at the beginning of my speech: What is the Government doing? What does the government do to solve all the problems that Spanish people have? Because the worst government is also the most expensive. What have 4 vice-presidents, 22 ministers, 33 secretaries of state, 116 directors-general and 777 - at the moment - advisers done since the beginning of the pandemic? What have they done to improve the lives of the Spaniards? I recommend to those who are seeing us, and I recommend it to all of you, that you enter the Government's website, lamoncloa.gob.es., and see the agenda, the agenda you have in the last days, in the last months, in the last year, each and every minister in our country. Yesterday, they had public activity 12 of the 22 ministers; today, they have public activity 6 ministers, 6 of 22. You will tell me that all that is on that agenda is obviously not all that the ministers are working on, but you will agree with me that if the government that likes the propaganda of our history the most, what counts today is what 6 ministers are doing, what the rest of our government will or will not be doing. Those who do have an agenda every day are the self-employed, those who fight to open the blind every morning and that instead of seeing how their Government helps them, how they receive aid such as those proposed by the People's Party - zero quota for zero income - the only contribution that their Government makes to consumption is to create a ministry that serves absolutely nothing. Today, of the 2.5 million workers who have been at ERTE, hundreds of thousands have not yet paid and the only thing they hear from the Minister of Labour is that they have all paid. As my colleague, Mrs García, has said, even UGT has had to remind her that it is not true, that there are hundreds of thousands of workers who have not yet received the ERTE. Indeed, it is still surprising to hear some of the Socialist Group's speeches on labour reform, because without the labour reform launched by the People's Party, what would be of all these workers who could not have a temporary employment regulation dossier! [[Applauds]] Today, in the week when hundreds of thousands of children return to school with their families and teachers concerned that the three ministers involved in ensuring their health and safety, Minister Celaá, the missing Minister Castells or Minister Duque, do not know where they are. Minister Celaá, who has been believed to be Minister of Education is to have the same vacation as the children; Minister Castells, who has no plan B, but who has never had plan A, or Minister Duque, the one who from the day he arrived what he wanted to leave. What is the use of three ministries if they are not able to give an answer? Never have so many served for so little and cost so much. For this reason, today the People's Group proposes to rationalize the government's mastodontic structure, which does not serve the general interests but only the interests of the PSOE-Podemos coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, 22 ministers alone to distribute these chairs which barely fit in the front line of this Chamber, 4 of them vice-presidents. Indeed, it serves as an example the vice-presidency of Mr. Iglesias, who has half of the competences that our colleague Mr. Mario Garcés had as Secretary of State for Social Services and Equality. Half of the powers of a Secretary of State of the People's Party are held today by a Vice-President of the Government, the other half by another Minister of Podemos. What a Secretary of State of the People's Party did today is done by a vice president and a minister of Podemos; well, at least they try, because doing so, doing it, obviously they don't. That, certainly, Mr de Podemos, is efficiency in the management of public money. [[Applauds]] Look, 33 state secretariats, the latest one created in the full health pandemic, to which we also add a general secretariat and a general direction; 116 directors general, among others the fundamental director general of Urban Agenda and Architecture. He told his friend, the president of the government, in 2015 in an interview: We have to bring him to Spain. We have done it literally, we have brought it among all the Spaniards with the money, of course, from the General Budgets of the State. In addition, 777 advisers; 100 more than his own previous Government, 200 more than the last Government of the Popular Party of Mariano Rajoy. Such is the growth of the advisers who have had to make an extraordinary credit transfer of 5 and a half million euros to pay the payroll in April. Only in 2019, 75 million euros in gross salaries in the current government. Look, when it comes to tightening the belt, and when we ask each and every one of our compatriots, we have to set an example. There are ministries of accredited futility and advisers of nothing that do not advise anyone. While calling for sacrifices from millions of workers who see that there is no money to pay or to prove luck, the Government continues to hire advisers. As the Spanish families begin the course by tightening their belts, all you worry about is taking care of your own political family, as the Vice President Iglesias did yesterday creating another advisory body with another presidency, another vice-president, another secretariat and 60 members to advise him. While thousands of mayors of all parties strive every day to do more with less, you confiscate your savings to spend them on paying the largest government structure in Europe. I'm done, Madam President. If you have a minister of education who has been found to be incompetent, a minister of universities who is neither expected nor expected, a minister of science who, since the day he arrived, has only wanted to leave, to dedicate - or to support us to allocate - the extra costs of these three structures to what really matters in the education of our country. If really the priority objective of this government is to work to make us stronger, avoid a communist the ideological dislate of being a minister of consumption - surely he will thank you - and focus all health resources on the really important thing, fight against COVID. We ask you to support this initiative to all groups, because we also clearly believe that in doing more with less the People's Party certainly knows a lot. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u98	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. I share the certain description made by MP Navarro López about the terrible result of the Administration started with the arrival of the government of Pedro Sánchez after the motion of censure in 2018, accentuated by the coalition with the communists and the support of the secessionists at the beginning of this year 2020. That is why I am going to support this necessary non-legislative proposal to which I have tabled an amendment calling for the deletion of the second point and the extension of the third point, by halving the jobs of any non-official staff serving in the office of the president, the four vice-presidents, the eighteen ministers and the endless number of secretaries of State and equivalents of similar rank. The elephant structure of the Government of a State characterized precisely by administrative decentralization and the broad division of responsibility after four decades of autonomous deployment show a strong show of inefficiency that does not resemble the whole of the European Union, and specifically in countries similar to ours, and that it falls into the multiplication of the powers of competence, with the consequent waste of resources and, sooner or later, the clash between administrations. In addition, an image of expense is being offered, for we are not referring to the lack of transparency reflected in the occultism of which some newly created ministries are demonstrating, which today are working to circumvent parliamentary control over the number of potential non-staff personnel who keep camouflaged in the maraña of new agencies and particular entities. When legislation is in force in Spain to prevent waste in public administrations, the government not only breaks molds and lacks exemplaryness, but it puts the European head in the increase of ministries and state agencies and avoids the search for efficiency in spending, renouncing the simplification of the functioning of the administration and the elimination of duplication. The Government is, in fact, imitating worse the policies that dragged Spain into a deep crisis between 2004 and 2011 that in legislative terms ended nothing less than the express reform of article 135 of the Constitution, driven by the PSOE, which, by the way, I opposed because what had failed in our country was not the Magna Charter, but the socialist economic policies. And in those they are, on the way back to the walk. In these we are now, with the active collaboration of its government partners, Unidad Podemos. It is not necessary to be very wise to predict that this return to life will mean the destruction of employment and a loss of the welfare state for our country. Before COVID-19, worrying signs and symptoms abounded. This afternoon, with the pandemic in place, I think it is timely, necessary and useful that this non-legislative proposal, which focuses on the reduction of ministries, the abolition of all the jobs of potential non-staff personnel working in the service of the four vice-presidents, four, and the elimination of half the jobs of potential non-staff personnel serving in the Office of the President. I also express my support for the allocation of the budgeted resources released as a result of the reduction of these expenditures in Chapter I, which should ultimately be linked to the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, if it was already foolish to make up a government of twenty-three members, which is running over the blue bank, which barely fit physically into the blue bank of this Chamber, it is unwise to maintain such a structure, both fat and expensive, in a context of crisis exacerbated by the severe economic consequences of the coronavirus. If we want to lead the reconstruction of a country suffocated by the very serious economic and social effects of a terrible pandemic as we are suffering, neither Pedro Sánchez nor the Government are in a position to ask the Spaniards, as Mr Navarro pointed out earlier, to tighten their belts while maintaining an excessive framework that undermines public resources to satisfy the insatiable voracity of this pantagruélic cabinet. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u100	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the medical services of the house, at the request of the Bureau, have recommended the use of masks in the Chamber in any case and at any time. I would ask you to use it permanently so as not to endanger your health, your own health, that of your colleagues, our colleagues, and also that of the services of the House. Thank you very much. I now have the floor for the VOX Group, Mr Ruiz Navarro. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to rationalize the structure of the State administration is certainly urgent, especially when our compatriots are having such a bad time in the midst of this serious economic, social and family drama. Members of the empty government, you have an ethical and moral duty to set an example of austerity in political spending. The Spaniards will not understand that when the whole of society is tightening its belt to survive, you maintain this lavish power structure that serves, above all, as an agency for the placement of friends. Or tell us: what have they served and are serving four vice-presidents joining ministries, eighteen ministers, thirty-three secretaries of state, fifty undersecretaries, fifty-four cabinet directors, hundreds of general directors and hundreds of advisors during the COVID disaster? And it turns out that with so much deed appointed to their finger they have forgotten to set up a committee of experts. [[Applauds]] To be the worst government in managing the pandemic, it was not necessary to have so many people sitting in leather armchairs. They didn't need that much carpet for this trip. For example, why do we want this second vice president and minister no less than Social Rights who, instead of protecting our elders, is dedicated to watching Netflix series and commenting on them on Twitter? Why do we want this Minister of the Interior, who in the face of the avalanche of illegal immigrants, many infected with COVID, does not take the necessary measures to protect our police and civilian guards and puts the entire Spanish population at risk? Why do we want this Minister of Transport who refuses to carry out PCR and COVID controls at airports in order to protect the tourism and hospitality sector of Spain? Why do we want this Minister of Justice whose star event to tackle the COVID crisis has been to make twenty days of August useless with the opposition of the entire legal community? Or why do we want - I could go on - a minister of equality who resists to make public the names of his advisers and what they charge, but teaches us how well he celebrates with them his birthday party? For this reason, because we do not need so much high office, in our first amendment we propose that the vice-presidencies in one and the ministries be left at a maximum of twelve. But, as a second amendment, it seems essential that an audit be carried out to bring to light those observatories and other public bodies that do not perform essential functions, that have merely ideological purposes or that do not serve the general interest, logically in order to proceed to their immediate dissolution. Public employees are missing, yes, among them many in the health sector, but it is clear that there are still plugs left. Ladies and gentlemen of the empty Government, you are failing to respect civil servants, you have violated the principle of exceptionality laid down in Article 66.2 of the Law on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector with regard to the appointment of directors-general among non-official staff, and you have thereby deprived civil servants of the right to occupy up to twenty-six directorates-general to deliver them, as well as not, to people with more ideology than training. In view of this, the third amendment is that a statute should be drawn up for the public administration in order to establish a professional system of senior management, starting from its appointment so that its work and the administration itself are not at the top of any ideology. It is striking, moreover, that while the amiguetes tread carpet you have placed in the trigger to the successful system of administrative mutualism. What are you planning to do with the Muface, the Isfas and the Mugeju, gentlemen of the government? Madam Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service - who is also not - especially responsible for this matter, I should like you to explain to us how this matter is going, because I assure you that millions of public officials in this house and outside of it are very concerned about this issue, and I also assure you that VOX will not leave you alone. I'm done. When many Spaniards at the moment have barely enough to survive, it is not decent for so many political structures to be maintained. Ideological expenditure is indispensible, but the basic needs of the Spaniards are not. We are therefore in favour of the proposal put forward by the Group of the European People's Party, logically defending our amendments. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u102	Thank you. Next, for the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u103	Thank you very much, President. The People's Parliamentary Group presents a non-legislative proposal urging the Government, first, to restructure the areas of government, reducing the current vice-presidencies and abolishing some ministries, but without telling us which ones should be abolished and for what specific reasons, in addition to forgetting the constitutional reservation of government provided for in 97 of the Constitution. Secondly, with regard to any staff - not to the Directors-General, who are not contingent personnel, and I correct the quote made by the VOX spokesman to 66.2, because it refers to Directors-General, except that in the RPT there is an exception, and there is a reserve of staff, but not of contingent personnel - he proposes the abolition of all posts not covered by official staff who are in the service of Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretaries of State, proposing also to reduce by half the same staff, which is in the service of the President, without also telling us why in some cases all these posts should be abolished and in others - in the case of the President - to reduce them by half or why all possible staff positions should be filled by officials in the case of Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretaries of State, and not in the case of the President of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, contingent personnel are legally and jurisprudentially characterized by being appointed and terminated freely, by not occupying positions reserved for public officials, by being positions of trust and special advice, by not being subject to the principle of political neutrality, by being temporary, by not only performing tasks on a non-permanent basis in the administrative organisation and by being determined by the corresponding employment relationships. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, in view of this legal and jurisprudence characterization, we believe that there is no point in what the People's Parliamentary Group wants, namely that any staff positions in the General Administration of the State are reserved for public officials, except in the case of the President of the Government. We also have to say that this pretension is not the focus that is being followed in the countries of our political and cultural environment with advanced democracies, although it would certainly be different to debate how many places of this nature should exist in government structures. We said that this claim to reserve the posts of possible staff for officials is not the focus of our system or that of the countries in our environment, precisely because of the nature of the same functions that this staff performs: political support for political positions of the Government, as stated in the Government Act, 50/1997, and without being able to adopt acts or resolutions corresponding to organs of the Administration; contingent personnel who carry out their activities with the public authority to whom they advise in tasks such as support in political development, advice in parliamentary tasks, in their relations with the institutions in the administrative organization, with the media and with the same society and its organizations. For that reason - and I am finalizing, President - we do not see the purpose of seeking to distort and disturb against its nature the figure and functions of eventual personnel, if it is not to harm one of the parties of the governmental coalition that does not have sufficient cadres in the high civil service that participate in its ideological ideation, unlike the other parties and ideologies that have been exercising and exercising governmental tasks over the past forty years, or if it is not also to join the aspirations of some federation of high civil servants to colonize as new Mandarins the political action of the high offices of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliamentary Group will not be in favour of either of these two possible claims, without prejudice, I repeat, that at some point the debate on the number of posts of this kind of possible staff that should exist in the various portfolios of the Government, as well as in the Presidency and, where appropriate, vice-presidents, can be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u104	Thank you so much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u105	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This initiative is intended to give way to the absolutely well-founded criticisms of the coalition government that Sánchez and Iglesias have turned into the executive with more armchairs in the history of our democracy. Apart from the graphic image of a blue bench on the edge, the fact is that the consequence of the formation of this coalition government has been an unjustified increase in spending on the ministerial structure, and that is one of my group's concerns. The ultimate purpose of this proposal is to rationalize public expenditure, but what expenditure? The one intended for political, superfluous and free-designated jobs, in particular those of a purely political nature, which end up in positions of high responsibility, with fingers, which reward only political affinity above working capacity. We share the purpose of this proposal. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we share this purpose, which would not allow only the reduction of public expenditure. We are concerned that from the People's Party, emphasis should be placed only on that savings and not on the fervent need for politicians to pull our stock out of the institutions in general at once. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we do not want you to accompany a proposal like this of self-criticism in this regard. It said, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not only about reducing or reducing superfluous spending, but of course, but also about getting a depoliticised administration, in which public servants can work guided by the public interest, without having to obey the shift leader, with the corresponding turn party card. Indeed, to the colossal structure of government designed to the liking of the Socialist Party and We can perhaps find an explanation, and it is not another that both parties can place their own and seize as much power as possible. Look, I'm going to give you a very revealing fact, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Directors General are concerned, which, as you know, are one of the most important senior officials in the scheme of the General Administration of the State. When you look at this structure you realize that PSOE and Podemos not only have the record of ministerial portfolios, but of general directors or general directorates not occupied by officials, an obligation from which the Iglesias-Sánchez government has been exempted. They have made the exception that there are virtually no career staff members into a rule. And how does it end up with all this? Indeed, many career officials are injured, because the staff member is an expert in his/her field, has approved an opposition and is due to a career all his/her life. The politician is due to a temporary electoral programme, which is of course legitimate, of course, but for the proper functioning of the institutions it is necessary to preserve the independence of public officials, who can and should raise their hands when the rulers exceed themselves in their attempts to adapt the institutions to their electoral programme. It is not surprising, therefore, that Podemos, the party that within the Government of Spain has most threatened to double the institutions, is the one who most dispenses with professional officials for this type of office. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, you are free of people who warn of irregularities with the law even within your party. And, if not, let them explain to Mr. Calvente how expensive he comes to warn inside Podemos of his demeanors or his problems with his accounts. That is why you come here, to Congress, after having given lessons to all Christ, and vote against the law of Citizens, protecting whistleblowers, such as Mr. Calvente. By the way, I have stopped to review the coalition agreement that you signed and I have seen no reference to the protection of whistleblowers for corruption, which four years ago my party signed in its investiture agreement. Question of priorities. In addition to the professionalization and depoliticization of the Administration at these levels, we need young talent attraction. That is something that the People's Party also forgets in its proposal. The complexity of the services is growing and in Spain we have a serious need to train our officials and adapt to the new challenges, so also, by facilitating the generational relief of our officials, we are working on this forecast of what the future Administration will be. It is of no use, ladies and gentlemen, to remain in the reduction of expenditure if we do not tackle these other serious problems. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. I do not want to fail to mention, when we talk about the public administrations of the State, that the institutional loyalty of the various administrative levels must be guaranteed, a loyalty that from the government, unfortunately, seems to occur only with those administrations that govern nationalist parties. We are going through a very serious situation of health and economic crisis, to which the statements of political leaders, including members of the coalition government, are adding a political crisis, turning the autonomous governments into a mere political colour to which to attack or defend. Let us not copy, please, the worst of the nationalists. I'm done. Yes, public spending on political and free-designated posts must be reduced in order to place friends, but that is as important as understanding that the challenge ahead of us with regard to the modernization and reform of our administration is much broader and more urgent. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Mirror. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen of the People's Group, first of all, the triumphalist account they make of the period of government of the PP and Mariano Rajoy is not sustained. We are talking about a period marked by cuts, the loss of social, labour and even democratic rights, the precariousness and deterioration of public services, the increase in inequalities and poverty and corruption. In addition, to seek to link the supposed economic boom of the PP stage with the fact that Mariano Rajoy reduced the vice-presidencies from two to one, the ministries from fifteen to thirteen and some advisers is frankly ridiculous. It's an absolutely demagogic argument to fuel cheap populism against the PSOE-Pode coalition government. Would it be because of this kind of unscrupulous and populist political argument that they decided to dismiss Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo as the signatory spokesman for this GNP? In any case, even if you have some reason in the division of some ministries that is not explained if it is not to accommodate the quota of the United Nations We can, we all know that economic indicators depend on the economic policies that are carried out, and there, unfortunately, there is quite a coincidence between you and the Government. In any case - I conclude -, put to rationalize the expenditure in the Administration, the BNG can indicate some steps to take: to suppress the deputies - at least in the case of Galicia anachronistic and absolutely useless -, the Royal House - in passing we get rid of the corrupt Bourbons - and all the ministries with competences transferred to the autonomous communities in a federalizing bet or to reduce and even suppress the abounding military expenditure today. This would allow savings for social policies; what you propose is simply demagoguery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u108	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The efficiency of an Administration is not defined by the number of posts it has, but by the results it can present at the end of the year or at the end of the legislature. In the explanatory statement of this proposal, the People's Parliamentary Group makes a story of the People's Party and Rajoy government that appears to be Alicia in the Wonderland. If they have done so well and with so few posts, it is not understood that they have gone from 186 Members to 123 and then to the 89 Members they have now. I mean, he wasn't on charges. Tips I see I don't have for myself. The Andalusian Government has just hired sixteen senior officials. No, he hasn't come down. At some point, the Government of Esperanza Aguirre had more than 1500 political positions; in 2011, in the midst of a crisis. They had chiringuitos that served nothing; to give shelter to Mr.Abascal, a leader whom they then sheltered in a chiringuito that served nothing. Was that rationalizing? I'm done. The PP wanted to rationalize so much that a court just sentenced them today for wanting to avoid the payment of 95% of compensation to two workers in its parliamentary group who had been working for thirty-three and thirty-four years and whom the PP defined as eventual. That's the way the PP really cares about this. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u110	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u111	Thank you very much, President. One of the most serious problems of politics, not only in the Spanish state, but in Europe as a whole and in the world, are populisms and populist parties. This is a populist motion that makes a party that is theoretically a government party, a serious party and that is not populist. And what is it? For the populist populist party arrives and makes it an amendment that decafeates virtually the whole proposal. The truth is that we can disagree - and, in fact, we are - with a lot of things from the current government - surely we would not have done the ministries as they have done or would have had the advisers they have - but do you really believe that, with all the serious and rigorous political criticism that can be made to the government, you can come up with a proposal of these characteristics?, a proposal to suppress the advisers and reduce the vice-presidents and the ministries, also linking it to what they would do to combat the COVID crisis? Be serious. Don't be populist. You are not doing any favors right now to society as a whole. I am not going to do the exercise we could do to examine your party's governments at the local level and at the level of autonomous communities to see how they are organized, especially when they are in coalition; I am not going to do it because I would be as populist as you are. I can criticise and criticize the government, and I disagree with some of the disengagements or outbursts of ministries they have made, but I sincerely believe that by linking this to the fight against COVID and making it a political cause they are wrong. They do not help them; the only ones who help and give wings are the real populist parties, who make populist proposals and who do not get anywhere. We are therefore going to vote against this proposal. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u112	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not gonna be original, I'm not gonna surprise you. Our main reason to vote no, but a no resounding to this proposition... [[The mask is removed]] - It's just that I'm so obedient to the rules of Congress that I couldn't even explain it to him. Like I said, I'm not gonna be original. We will vote that not because it is opportunistic, populist and demagogic, but even extremes that say little of the category of this Congress. You should know that a government structure corresponds more to an infrastructure than to an expenditure and that design must respond to management purposes, to social impact objectives, not to savings criteria. Having said that, we agree that if it simply responds to consensus policies among a coalition government, they should rethink it. Of course, Mr Bel said that the comparison and looking for other examples of his group in coalition governments was populist. Well, I'm not going to say it, because I did, but I give you a clue, the Community of Madrid: 8-13. Nothing, I didn't mean it so I wouldn't be populist. But saving is essential. Indeed, we are faced with a crisis of unforeseeable consequences and with a state of absolute ill-being. So, how are we going to save? We, who are very propository, give them some ideas that have already begun to insinuate Mr. Rego Candaimil. Let's see, military spending. According to the Centre Delàs d'Estudis per la Pau, in the Spanish state the military expenditure in 2019 was 20,050 million euros, which is equivalent to 50 million euros per day. Especially striking are the seven special arms programmes that the Executive committed already in 2018 worth 13 billion euros. A couple of illustrative examples of what would happen if we reoriented these resources to sanitary material can be as follows: each Leopardo 2E war tank, a model of tanks that is seen to have the Earth Army - of tanks I don't understand much - costs the government 11 million euros; wow, 440 medical respirators! Each shot in this tank involves a cost of $3,200; with that money, ninety COVID tests. The annual maintenance of the tank - because it is seen that they have to be maintained - is valued at 5000 euros; they would serve to cover the annual maintenance of a hospital bed. [[Rumors]] Don't you like it? Nothing, another idea: the ministries. Where they do not have competences or where they have all the skills transferred, why abolish and reduce staff costs? We directly suppressed the Ministries of Education, Culture, Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, and I would also put Health or Universities, and don't forget Royal House, which reminded me of it. In fact, if it were for me, we would abolish our membership of this State, but this is another issue that does not come up now. But they don't think he's a ballad, because they know what's going on? That if we take into account the figures of the INE for 2019, the distribution in Catalonia of employees by type of sector is 15.4% in the public sector and 84.6% in the private sector. Do you know what happens to the state average? 19.3%, which is 4 points more public work, for 80.7% in the private sector. And I tell you one thing: most communities range from 18 to 29, and I no longer enter 50 of the last one, because I don't think it's comparable. We'd save, huh? Let's see, other ways to save. The recovery of the bank bailout. There's a field there to run. Oh, my God, I've got to get this over with. Four more strokes: recovery of bank bailout, which now with these mergers gets worse and worse; tax evasion; tax evasion; fraud. Please look at the report of the Finance Technicians' Union that was published in Expansion in November 2019 and you will see that we are talking about €38 billion per year defrauded between taxes and social security quotas. And I'm not saying it, I'm saying it's the Finance Technician's Union. So, gentlemen, stop talking nonsense. The 677 advisors are, as we say in Catalan, the chocolate of crying. If you want, we'll talk, but don't do this to the citizens. Don't waste our time, please. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u114	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth, that just in the week we are getting to know all sorts of details about Operation Kitchen, paid with reserved funds, in which you even arrived - it seems joke, but happened - to send a person dressed as a priest to the house of the family of Bárcenas to kidnap his wife and his son to take information from them, you come to tell us about a rational use of public funds seems a joke. Finally, coming from you, this GNP can only be qualified as pure hypocrisy and, of course, we will vote no. You are the party that gave 60 billion euros to the bank, while telling us that this ransom wasn't going to cost the citizen a euro. You, ladies and gentlemen, are also the party, for example, of Montoro's tax amnesty and the party that gave Florentino Pérez €1350 million for the Castor project. By the way, both measures were declared unconstitutional in 2017. You are supposed to be very constitutionalistic, but when it comes to legislating against the Constitution for the benefit of those who filled their box B with money, we see that you do not have much problem. It takes constitutionalism and makes rational use of public money. That yes, I will not deny that from wasteful in advisors and political chiringuitos you have a wide knowledge, for something you are the party, as has already been mentioned, of the political chiringuito for Mr Abascal - hundreds of thousands of euros in your pocket for doing nothing - or the party that hires as advisors, at a rate of 50 000 euros per year, to people like Carromero - you will know why - or Mr Married himself when, supposedly - it is a saying - he was studying the career, which is not bad. Now, it has also been said here that, because of their studies and merits, they have hired Mr Cosidó in Castile and León for 54 000 euros per year. So, you do know about this. If you want to continue talking about other things you can also teach us lessons about the rational use of money and public spending. For example, we can talk about those Ferrari laps through Formula 1 circuit in Valencia. We can talk about how they turned a pope's visit into the Mafia business of the decade; or we can talk about that work culminating in the thought of the rational spending of money, which was the airport, without planes, of Castellón. [[Applauds]] Anyway, gentlemen, with this history behind your back, you have to have your face as the reinforced cement to come here and talk about the hypertrophic structure of the government. Seriously, ladies and gentlemen, you are the party that has among your historical records a government, that of Mr Aznar in 2002, of which only two ministers were not imprisoned, charged, investigated or walked in the courts in any way; two of fourteen; two of fourteen. That was - let me be ironic - a good cut of ministerial team, and not these decaffeinated things that bring us here today. [[Applauds]] For the most part - as has also been said in your proposal - you are taking out Mr Rajoy's government, and setting it as an example of what this government should do in the face of a situation like the one we are living in. Do you think the Spaniards are masochists? Do you think we're masochists? Because, if not, I don't explain it to myself. Mr Rajoy's only legacy left us at his disposal was: job insecurity and wages of misery; the permanent life and existential insecurity in which the working classes live; the lack of a future horizon for young people; devastated public services; housing turned into a luxury property for the vast majority of the population; a public debt above 100%, when they took it to 70%; the pit of bankrupt pensions; 12.5 million people at risk of poverty and social exclusion, et cetera, et cetera. And all this for not talking about the consequences of their brutal and inhuman cuts in health, education or dependency; their management model for the residence of older adults or their total and absolute abandonment of public investments in science or research and development; consequences that, unfortunately, when we need it most, we are living and suffering now in all their cruelty, because they have left the welfare state in the bones. [[Applauds]] Therefore, gentlemen, from what do you presume, from what you derive, from having implemented the regime of terror of precariousness, from having left our health and our welfare state in the bones? What a shame! In short, ladies and gentlemen, I will close with a sentence that I believe sums up everything: I wish that their governments would have had more ministers and ministers, higher offices, more advisers, but they would have stolen less, wasted less and, above all, cut less. Another cock would sing to us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u116	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Aceves Galindo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u117	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, first of all, since it is my first speech in this plenary, to devote my first words to remembering, recognizing and paying tribute to the victims of COVID, to the families affected by this terrible pandemic; and, in particular, to allow me, the Segovians and Segovians, to the constituency for which I am a Member, as well as to the public employees of our country, in my role as spokesperson for the public service of the Socialist Group. The truth is, Mr Navarro López, you have had an impressive piece of paper today. The citizens, when they elect Members, the first thing they ask of us is rigour, and you have mentioned it to the government. Do you know what the government has done today? In the Council of Ministers, approve the future of our country's science and, this afternoon, appear in the Senate. Do you know what your spokesman has done? Put her in the Senate. That's the difference, Your Honor, assembling it in the Senate. [[Applauds]] I confess that, when my group commissioned me to defend this non-law proposal, I said: Finally, we are going to debate for the future, for the values, for the need to remember that 2.6 million public employees in our country had done a great deal of work during these months of pandemic, and when I have read the non-law proposal of the People's Party I have said: I have never known such a demagogic, incoherent and populist proposition; I have not seen it in recent years. I'm going to put a rating on your whole speech, because it's your model, Your Honor: I sell tips that I don't have for myself. And in this case, you know why? Because they exceed even the constitutional limit. We know that you are torpedoing the renewal of constitutional bodies. They declare themselves very constitutionalist, but in the end they prove the opposite. Today they also exceed another limit, because the constitutional mandate of the Presidency of the Government protects them, depending on the needs of the country, to create the structure of the Government. I will simply give you two brushes: Articles 98 and 100 of the Constitution protect you and the Government Act of our country, which clearly states that it is the power of the President of the Government to do so. The current ministerial departments are based on a future country structure and policy. They talk about economic growth based on science, innovation, research and the creation of quality jobs, territorial understanding and demographic challenge, social justice, just digital transformation of the economy and full and effective equality of women. The first four are the vice-presidency marches and the rest impregnate the government, so let me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, tell you that this GNP today in this plenary is a real shot at the foot that your former spokesman leaves before arguing with your leader, because it is a real time bomb what you have just done. I ask you: Does your model of public employment mean that, from now on, as you did with Mr Bárcenas, opposition to a driver is made to the finger and paid with State funds? The truth is, it's terrible to even say it. Are you going to admit to the two farewells, as the court has just ruled, that thirty years old are above your companions? Is that your model, that of dismissal from public employment as well? The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, tell Mr Casado that he was very close when that rottenness was under his feet, and make coherent proposals here to stop being imbued by the extreme right, which is what imbues them in his proposal permanently. Never an arsonist, as in this case, can be a firefighter. As for patriotic coherence, to which they all refer, I will give you some example. I'll start with my land, Castile and Lion. In Castile and León they created fourteen positions of contingent personnel to place former positions of their party; among them, one Ignacio Cosidó, you know that general manager who said that the police had controlled her. I think they're going to have to call you, like Mr. Mañueco, to tell you to come out and warm up that so what we're getting to know you may have a lot to say in the coming party. Then there's the star record they made for the Sotosalbos, popular football club, that right end of Vitoria who put us as a senator in Castile and León by larceny in a town as beautiful as it is Sotosalbos, in my dear... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u119	I'm going on with Murcia, check it out. The regeneration advocated there is 25% more deputy directors-general, 33% more directors-general; in short, 26.48 % more salaries while cutting 57 million euros in public health, and in addition the president of robberies climbs 3000 euros the ground. We passed to Andalusia on this patriotic journey. Here, look, they went from criticizing 56 rents of high-ranking housing to having 77, an increase of 40% of expenditure. That is transparency and good governance, also that exercised by Mr Bendodo, going with his official car to make pilates - is that it scared him - as well as the new model of the People's Party, the express contract: 3000 plugged in twenty-four hours. Truth is, a record. To conclude, the Community of Madrid. This is the model of the People's Party, the one that says Casado who wants to take Moncloa - less bad than this model will take, fortunately for the Spaniards, many years -. The model is: they go from 7 to 13 councils - almost double -, they keep salaries above 100 000 euros - far above even that of the President of the Government -, they increase 22 high offices, and they already have 131, and 262 free appointments. Total, 36% more expenditure on high offices, much higher than the criticism of the General Administration of the State. And with regard to the Madrid City Council, everyone knows that they have turned it into the real INEM of the People's Party with hundreds of contracts.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u120	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u121	I'm done, Mr. Vice President. But, of course, I don't forget the cool right-wing chiringuito, you know, that Foundation for patronage and social sponsorship, with good wages and little work, whose only worker, Mr.Abascal, his influential partner every day, has a lot to say. So, Mr Navarro López, count it, you have a lot of work to do, and there is a GNP in all parliaments calling for the same thing. I end with a sentence that we think is appropriate, which is not mine, but Gandhi's, because I think they have to be happy. He says, "Happiness is to agree on your thoughts, your words, and your deeds. Be happy, gentlemen of the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u122	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Navarro López, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We accept with great happiness the amendment by Mr Martínez Oblanca of Foro Asturias, and we thank Mr Ruiz Navarro, on behalf of VOX, for the presentation of the worked amendments, which we do not accept for reasons of constitutional tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u124	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u125	Next, the motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the measures being taken by the Government of Spain for the revival of the economy. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Castellón Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u126	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Spain is facing one of the greatest challenges as a society in recent years, and we are doing so with a government that has held out to deny that COVID would have a significant impact on our economy. That certain prediction by Mrs Calviño that the incidence of this crisis was going to be insignificant led the Government to take action late, overwhelmed by the situation and stressed by her inability and more busy with the divisions that were taking place in the Council of Ministers. This serious irresponsibility has meant that today, unfortunately, Spain leads all the rankings of destruction of wealth, leads all the rankings of destruction of employment and increase of deficit with figures not seen in any other country in the world. In Spain, unfortunately, two viruses have coincided at the same time with a very serious lethality. On the one hand, the COVID, with its consequences on health, on life and on the Spanish economy and, together with it, that other virus that always attacks the Spanish economy, the economic growth of our country in the form of more taxes, in the form of more deficit and that ends up devouring job creation. That other virus of socialist governments, a combination certainly, ladies and gentlemen, lethal for millions of Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, today Spain has 750 000 more unemployed than twelve months ago, today Spain has the highest unemployment rate in the European Union, above countries like Greece, at 15.6%, and we have gone from creating 500 000 jobs a year to destroying the same figure. In one year you, gentlemen of the PSOE, have managed to destroy 22% of national wealth, the world's largest GDP drop. In one year you have managed, ladies and gentlemen, to have six million Spaniards survive thanks to a public subsidy, an unbearable 30% of the working population. Ladies and gentlemen, none of those figures, none of them, is a reason to be proud, as we have seen in the last few days in you. If we are the country of the world that worst consequences on lives and jobs we will endure after the pandemic, we cannot display such shameful euphoria. Now you are proclaiming that we are coming out of the strongest crisis, that we are already coming out stronger, and yes, Spain will rise, but not as a result of the attitude and the successes of this government, an isolated government of real Spain; a government without contact with those workers who cannot go to their hotels because they are closed, who do not speak to merchants; a government that despises our hoteliers, who have the most empty bars and restaurants ever. Because, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you are now in something else; you are now in what is called building the story, that story which has nothing to do with what is going on out there; that story which overlooks the impoverishment that thousands of Spanish households are suffering; that story in which, after listening to you, it seems that each Spanish has touched the lottery as a result of the loans and subsidies that are going to come for the rescue of our European partners; that story with which you want to make us believe that it is already here, with your hand, the new deal of the green economy, of the artificial intelligence that has replaced that Spain in black and white of sun and beach tourism, of shops, hotels and full restaurants that seems to embarrass your government so much; that post-Franquist economy, as the spokesman for Podemos said the Committee on Economics said the other day. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that you are true teachers in ruining us, but at the same time you try to convince us that you are doing it for our own good. [[Applauds]] And in that road map now you are calling all political forces falsely to unity, matching unity with accession, diluting the general interest with the interest of the Socialist Party and wanting to confuse support for the reconstruction of the business economy, the reconstruction of the family economy, with looking elsewhere, confusing it with silence and granting it to a pernicious economic and political agenda that you have already launched before the coronavirus arrived. When you ask for unity, ladies and gentlemen, what do you ask for? What measures are we talking about? On what basis do they base their economic policy, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos? Allow us, gentlemen of the PSOE, that for our sake and for the good above all of the Spaniards we do not believe that president of the government who has lied to his partners, who has lied to his party, who has lied to all the Spaniards in the face; a president of the government who is not to be trusted. Therefore, tell us here today whether your economic agenda is to renounce the rise in taxes and reduce inefficient public spending as a result of having the most inflated government in history; that you are willing to renounce the repeal of the shamefully agreed labour reform with Bildu. Say, so that you are heard, if that unit you are claiming is compatible with having an independent body of government made up of economists, experts and managers to articulate European aid and that it is truly effective in rebuilding our productive system. Join, as you speak of unity, in the initiatives put forward by this political group in this House to extend liquidity measures, to reform the Competition Law, to promote real market unity or to pass the second chance law, and also, of course, to extend the ERTE to 2021 so that we can avoid the bankruptcy of thousands of companies. You approve our autonomous plan, with which we intend to save thousands of them from ruin through various measures, because the important thing is not, as Mrs Calvo said this weekend, to approve whatever it is with whomever it is; the determinant was always, is and will be the content of what you remember and what you remember. If these are the basis of your economic policy, then, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, you will have no problem in supporting this motion, which calls for precisely this, which calls for all these measures. Therefore, I ask you to support her, I ask you to withdraw, unless you are doing political trilerism and that what you are seeking is not joining efforts for economic recovery, but rather that what you want is an alibi for her story or a blank cheque to Mr Sánchez's government. [[Applauds]] I understand that there is someone here who is willing to extend it even to the spokesman. This may be the interest of the PSOE, but do not confuse it with the general interest of Spain. For these measures that I have just reported, which I have listed, which contains the motion, they will have their hands open, the hand always stretched out by the People's Party. For the rest, follow you - I conclude, President - negotiating with those who want to destroy Spain or fooling, as always, other political forces to which they sold smoke and which have not obtained from you a single true commitment. And let us, in the meantime, not enter your story or your theater. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Castellón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment put forward by the VOX Group, Mr Manso Olivar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u128	Good afternoon, everyone. We are here because the People's Party has tabled a motion for economic policy that is being followed by the government. There is no doubt that the motion is necessary because the economic policy that the Government is following is wrong. What's going on, gentlemen of the People's Party, is that you're always little determined, you're shy, you don't go any further. And we are going to say some things today that many of your voters, not just from the People's Party, want to hear, but we are going to be a little more specific than you. It is true that the data are frankly bad. We have 3.8 million unemployed, a fall in GDP of 18.5 % in the second quarter, and now in the third quarter we are all waiting for an increase, there will be, but I have already ventured that there could have been if the government had behaved differently and had not aborted the tourist campaign, where overnight stays have been reduced by 71%. Even so, the government will sell any rise, as it will be strong after two cuts as big as we have had in the first two quarters, as a great achievement, when in the bottom it is a great failure, because any rise that is less than 12% after the two quarters that we have is a real failure. But I'm not going to bore you with numbers anymore. There are many figures in the writing presented by the People's Party, we have brought more and more up-to-date - it is not the fault of the People's Party, we have done it later - and we will focus on the six issues proposed today by the People's Party, six, like bulls. In fact, I've been eager to throw away the mask to see if it fell in the right direction. Let us look at the six points proposed by the People's Party. I'll start with the last two. The People's Party says that the government does not impose unilateral taxes. Of course, now we realize that this is why the Courts were created. The Courts were created so that the Crown would not impose taxes unilaterally, but, as we have emptied the legislative power of this House in favour of the Government, the Government now has the capacity to impose taxes unilaterally. We support that point five of the PP. Tax hike. We totally agree. This is not the time to raise the rates. If you believe so much, and I say so to you, in automatic stabilizers, now that you increase spending and reduce revenue do not try to recover revenue by raising the rate. It is also proposed by the Group of the European People's Party at its second point that the labour reform agreed with Bildu by the Government be maintained in an affluent and nocturnal manner. We agree. And we, who are more specific than the People's Party, have tabled amendments to three of the Group's proposals. First of all, at the first of its proposals, the flexibility of ERTs. We were the first to propose that the ERTs should extend beyond the period of large confinement in time, and this was explained to the Minister for Economic Affairs in the relevant Commission. However, you know that many entrepreneurs are afraid that at the end of the ERTE or that, despite the ERTE in which their workers are immersed, they will not finally be able to readmit them and will extend this possibility. We want to give these employers the opportunity to take advantage of the ERE sooner if they wish, but provided that the State takes the compensation, either by paying it in cash or by extending the workers' benefits. You are also talking about extending liquidity measures. We proposed at the time, and we propose it again, that all commercial credit be immediately liquidated with suppliers, with suppliers of public administrations. It is absurd that people who give goods and services to the public administration cannot collect them and yet have to pay taxes, and that this is done in the form of a payment or transferable credit with which they can meet their tax obligations or even pass it on to a third party. Finally, you talk about reducing public spending, we always add superfluous according to the recommendations of the AIReF. We fully agree, but we would go further, gentlemen of the People's Party, we propose that the rule of expenditure in local and autonomous administrations be complied with, that we recover or, rather, that we introduce the budget on a zero basis, that we apply the Basic Law in Articles 25 and 26, and that the municipalities are dedicated only to what they have to devote themselves to, and that all these local administrations be forced to obtain a surplus of 2%, although I do not know whether to recommend this in the light of what the Government then does with the surpluses. Having said all this - and I conclude, Mr President - I, as the representative of the People's Party, also call the unity of the Government, vote on these amendments which we propose because they are reasonable and because I have something clear, gentlemen: of course Spain can, as your publicity says, Spain can, but with you it will be impossible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u129	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u130	Thank you, Vice President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. There is nothing about the health crisis that we have for the social and economic crisis that is coming to us. In just one semester, our economy has fallen by more than 22 points, household consumption by more than 25, investment by more than 25, we will end the year with an unemployment rate above 15, today we have 132 000 companies less than exactly a year ago and the public debt will exceed 120 of the gross domestic product. And what is the government's economic policy to deal with all this? Living from European aid. Of course, European aid is very good and an oxygen we need right now, but we also need to take the necessary measures to learn how to live without the breather in Europe. We are not the worst country in the whole of the European Union because we have looked at an owl, nor will we get out of the crisis because we find a four-leaf clover, because the economy is not a question of luck, it is a question of reforms and work. We live in resignation and have normally accepted to be the OECD country that has declined the most in economic terms. We normally accept being the country that always leads the queue of unemployment. We normally agree to see how each year we fail to meet the deficit target, or we also agree to be the second country in the whole of the European Union that needs the most help. I think we should not resign, because this country has capacity and this country has talent, what it needs to do are reforms and reforms are done with consensus, a word that remains exactly in that: in a word, although it does not have to be a word, it has to be a will. What happens is that in this Government we know that words are widely used, but very few actions are taken. We are now called to approve a budget for patriotism, and we are also called to vote for love of Spain, the very day on which the government meets with Esquerra Republicana and Bildu. And I wonder: would patriotism not be much more credible if this government had not been invested precisely with the votes of all the enemies of Spain? Wouldn't patriotism be more credible if shipwrecks, for example, didn't have to endure a government that has been elected with Bildu's votes? By the way, that of the nation has also been so. Then it is also said that we are asked to trust. And, of course, when the Spaniards saw a president of the government say that he could not sleep peacefully if he agreed with his current government partners, it is very difficult for the Spaniards to have confidence. We are also told that it is time for certainty, but I believe that it would be much easier to understand certainty if we did not have a government stabbing constantly in the councils of ministers, and that the only thing they are able to agree on is to stop a commission of inquiry to control Podemos's accounts. The certainty would be much more credible. That is why, as I say to you, I think it is time not to resign, it is time to make reforms, because, of course, we need short-term economic policies, but we also need to push forward measures in the medium and long term. We need digital transformation, ecological transformation, pension reform and, of course, a reduction in the public administration that needs to be undertaken, because it is good enough for an administration full of charges, charges and charges. Every time we see companies saying that they have to be more efficient and that they have to provide better service, it's not always an increase in staff, it's often an improvement in the procedure and we never see in the public administration that anyone makes improvements in the procedure, always the improvement has to come from the increase in public spending, and that ends up being unsustainable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u131	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. The proponent said that the situation is dramatic and serious, and that is true; so I will not waste much time thanking you for the free publicity that the UPN representative makes us on every occasion. I agree that the situation is dramatic and serious, and I think that is unquestionable. It also said that this situation is caused to some extent by a circumstantial factor, that of the pandemic, the COVID; that is also true and so far our adherence to that siren chant, which is that of the unity of all to deal with this crisis. Perhaps because we are one week away from the oars stropadak, from now on it is time to clash the oars with the proposal of the People's Party, because in the proposal made by the People's Party in its motion nothing is said about what other factors have led us to the situation in which we are, that is, the structural factors; nothing is said about what the economic model has led us to here and why that economic model is in crisis; nothing is said about what the difficulties that capitalism is going through at this historical moment where, unlike other crises of capitalism, it has an objective difficulty in finding matter and finding energy in a land that is finite - they probably do not talk about that because they are not interested or because they have no solutions that do not go beyond the logic of maximizing profit, most of the times at the expense of the workers and also at the expense of the natural resources and the planet -. From there, the solutions you propose are antagonistic with which we would put on the table. This, in itself, would be enough to explain why we are going to vote against your motion, but we are going to go to the motion itself - we have read it - to, in some way, deepen the debate through the realization of what you are proposing. As a factor in this situation, you argue that the economy was slowing down. True, but no one says that the economy has been slowing down only since 2018 and only because of the pandemic that then did not exist. It was slowing down because the economic model followed by the Spanish State, whether with the governments of the People's Party or with the governments of the Socialist Party, is that of adhering to a neoliberal economic model that is becoming more and more exhausted. They also tell us about the logic of the greater vulnerability by the very composition of the productive fabric and the economic fabric in the Spanish State. But are you not responsible for this commitment to cement, brick and tourism, for making the Spanish state in southern Europe a residence logic for tourists in northern Europe, and for making the economic model conditional on what transnationals and multinationals determined? Because they have some responsibility for the many years they have been in government. And they point out that there is a lack of reforms. If you haven't stopped making reforms! From the Aznar governments to the Rajoy governments have not stopped making reforms, reforms of infamous memory for the memory of the workers. It was probably late, but, of course, if you say that it was late, we should see how you have acted where you have been able to do so, because it does not seem that the Madrid Community is an example of speed and speed in dealing with this situation. From there, we are told that the job destroyed is brutal and that it puts us at the head of the European Union and it is probably true, but for that reason it is not necessary to lie, it is not necessary to add to the people who are in the ERTE or to the self-employed, who are in a situation similar or similar to that of the ERTE. Firstly, because they show little confidence in the business community, which you often praise and, secondly, because, if you do this, you would have to have done when you governed another logic, which is to point out in unemployment rates why not those who are not targeted in SEPE because they have lost all hope of finding employment or those who have had to go out looking for employment or those who are attending training courses and do not compute as unemployed or those who, being under twenty-five or even over twenty-five years old and studying in regular education while they are not in employment, are excluded from unemployment grants and therefore from the statistics and data that they so much like to throw themselves at each other. But, already going to the operative part, you propose to make ERTs more flexible. It may be a solution, but this would have to be accompanied by greater control of entrepreneurs who are using ERTE to reduce their production costs and to reduce the maintenance costs of their own company. They tell us not to repeal labour reform. What am I gonna tell him? That we will not stop until we repeal the labor reform and we will not do so because we are against you, we will not do so because Euskal Herria Bildu points out a bit, we will do so for the defense of the rights of the working class, that of Euskal Herria and that of any place in the Spanish State. Because of that labor reform that you say created so much employment, you forget to say that it created more precariousness than ever before and that it created, of course, more job instability than ever before. I'm finishing up. You are asking us to reduce public spending. All right, you can reduce public spending, but the best thing would be not to spend money in a useless way or even not to take it into your pockets in cases of corruption or in a useless way with the funds reserved in Kitchen. They tell us about liquidity measures, but they don't tell us why banks have free bar and black cards so they can take raw all the money that is denied to citizens. I'm finishing up. They also point out that there is no need to raise taxes. Let us say it again: that you pay more who has more, that what makes no sense is that Netflix pays 3478 euros a year in the Spanish State, which is the equivalent of what a citizen in the Spanish State pays in IRPF who receives 24 000 euros a year. That makes no sense, and what that means is that taxation serves you as an instrument to give pleasure to the great fortunes, while you continue to punish the workers. It is not a question of restarting the system, Mr. Speaker of the People's Party, it is a question of resetting it or, to make them understand me even better, even format it and it is not necessary to do it thirty-five times or with hammering. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u133	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u134	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. We are debating here today a motion by the People's Group on the measures taken by the Government to revive the economy, and we are telling you that we are going to vote against your proposal because we do not agree with most of its points. With regard to the flexibility of ERTs, it seems to us to be an appropriate measure which is also shared by the Government and therefore seems to us to be somewhat out of time. The Ministry of Labour and Social Security, together with trade unions and employers, are already negotiating the same. Moreover, it is fair to say that the capacity to reach agreements on ERTE has already been demonstrated in the context of the pandemic and that the safeguarding of employment and business survival has so far been paramount. The ERTE, and we have said so from our group, are certainly an effective mechanism to accompany the return of business and to reintegrate into the workforce as there is demand, and steps are already being taken to do so. With regard to the non-derogation of labour reform, we do not agree either. For my group there is a need for an in-depth change in the 2012 labour reform, a reform that was - it is supposed - based on the principle of flexicurity, but it seems that security was in the background. It is difficult to talk about this principle if it is not born of dialogue, of the interlocutors, and the cost of dismissal is reduced if greater internal flexibility is given. The protection system, of course, is old. Active policies are ineffective and employment services are not at all effective. We do not support the 2012 labour reform. We have supported the various groups for their modification and believe that it is necessary, inter alia, to causate recruitment, dismissal, changes in working conditions and the empowerment of collective bargaining. As far as reducing public spending is concerned, taking into account the results of the AIReF's Spending Review, we believe that its point of view is entirely inaccurate. Indeed, the AIReF has carried out an analysis of the various programmes or policies and has made a number of proposals that the Government has said it plans to include in the State's General Budgets, but at no time has it carried out a study of the structure of the Government and of course this group is not going to question that structure and whether it is excessive or not. On the tax issue, we do not understand that there is any talk of unilaterality, since the two new taxes being dealt with have been supported by other political groups. It is understandable that tax systems must adapt to times and new realities. Advances in technology cannot be based on tax reduction capacity, but on other factors. As far as the waiver of tax increases is concerned, I think they are advancing events. Of course, it must be made clear that the public spending that is being raised to get out of the crisis is going to need a tax policy, in our view, ambitious. It is true that it does not now touch or be viable in an economy that is still weakened and with a large number of companies with open or existing employment regulation files. Nor does it make sense to talk about an increase, for example, in corporation tax when companies are not going to make profits at the moment. This is a tax reform that should be addressed, because only with measures to combat tax fraud or with an increase in taxes on certain incomes will it be sufficient - to tell the truth - to do so. On the contrary, we cannot talk about a tax reduction in this situation either. It is not a realistic drop and moreover with a tax reduction it is difficult to maintain the social state, the welfare state. It is the time for expansive policies and fiscal reforms, effective and efficient controls of public policies, as well as a control of tax fraud, will be necessary, but with a calm and studied debate and not advocating for tax populism in one sense or another, by those who advocate a tax increase or such a simplistic tax fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u135	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This motion that we are debating here today contains measures that my parliamentary group has been asking the Government since the pandemic began. It would be inconsistent not to vote in favour, as it is now inconsistent to debate this motion and that you vote against the economic document of the Commission for Reconstruction. However, Citizens believe that we can - we can and must - go beyond, beyond to truly guarantee higher potential economic growth, beyond to take advantage of this crisis and face the indispensable reforms that, both PP and PSOE, have been delaying for decades and once laid the foundations for a stronger economy. Ladies and gentlemen, GDP, the gross domestic product of the second quarter, reflected a drop of more than 18% between quarters. We are talking about the biggest annual fall - as has already been said here - of the wealth of the euro area countries and the second largest in the OECD. We also lead the ranking of unemployment, so I guess we'll all agree that this is a dramatic situation. While some sectors have already recovered completely, such as urban logistics or e-commerce, we find other sectors whose activity is still at low thresholds, such as tourism or hospitality. We need to be aware that the way in which we face and manage the pandemic is going to be fundamental to recovering these sectors, tourism and hospitality, because, as we are unfortunately seeing, tourists will not return to Spain in a relatively long time. For all these reasons, Citizens took the Commission for Reconstruction very seriously, unlike other parliamentary groups in this House. And now that I am talking about VOX, Mr Manso - I do not locate him - has said that his parliamentary group was the first to ask Minister Calviño for the extension of the ERTE. I want to remind you that those of us who negotiated and managed to extend the ERTE beyond the state of alarm were us Citizens. He said that, for all these reasons, Citizens took the Commission for Reconstruction very seriously as opposed to other groups in this House, because that should be the forum for the debate on the real reforms that Spain needs. We have proposed more than 100 measures and they are the ones that we want to work with you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, as well as with the parties of the Government and with all those who want to join the consensus and be useful to the Spaniards. These measures have very clear objectives: to boost business dynamism, to reform the labour market, to update our tax system and to boost digitisation. We are talking about reforming the Competition Law, simplifying the menu of labor contracts and ending precariousness and making all contracts indefinite from day one. We are talking about promoting a corporate tax review, so we should reform legislation on late payment in commercial transactions to ensure that the legal period of payment to suppliers is fulfilled. We should also carry out a comprehensive audit of spending to end once and for all with all that superfluous and inefficient spending that we could really invest where we need to and optimize the structure of our public administrations. In short, ladies and gentlemen, they are reforms and measures to update our economy and to make an economy of the twenty-first century. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the proposals. We now need the will of this House to move them forward. The citizens are looking at us and they have to find us working tirelessly to offer them solutions, because it is our responsibility. We have to respond to this crisis, we have to get out of the ideological trenches and we have to offer citizens useful measures to make life easier and easier for them. Ladies and gentlemen, we must all agree, because we should all know that these economic measures must be accompanied by moderate and sensible budgets that show that Spain is a solvent country. There's no other way. We must all go together. We cannot do what we always do in such an exceptional situation. I'm done, President. In that exceptional situation it is where Citizens are doing things that they would not do in a normal situation. There we are, where we have been since the beginning of the pandemic and where we will continue to be. For this we continue to reach out to the Government; a serious, responsible and critical hand, but above all a responsible, committed and loyal hand with the Spanish. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u137	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. Since I have very little time, I will be brief, but direct. We are well aware of the economic prescriptions of the People's Party, which embraced in its neoliberal premised governments that left behind more social inequality and broad sections of the population unprotected and insecure. Regrettably, neither does the PSOE-Posso coalition government seem willing to take courageous policies that make an essential difference to what happened in the previous crisis, that the consequences of it will not be paid again by the same, the workers, the popular classes. Measures that the BNG has been advocating, such as permanently repealing labor reform, such as the tax on big fortunes and big corporations, the total recovery of the bank rescue fund, what the banks still owe us, the reduction of military spending or the nationalization of the big corporations, of the strategic sectors, which you, the PP and the PSOE, privatized in your day. Furthermore, I would like to recall that in the case of Galicia, even measures of this kind, which would be positive, would not have the desired effect if our country did not assume the full capacity to decide sovereignly on its affairs and on its economic policies, to put an end to expoliation and to promote sustainable and self-centered development on the immense potential of our country. That is why - and I conclude - the BNG defends sovereignty, because it is the only way that Galicia really goes forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u139	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Castellón, on this occasion I am not going to call you a populist. She is trying to address issues that must be addressed and that are a priority, although I would say that we are not going to support her. We share some of the points, others we do not share, others we give of course and others we do not understand. In any case, with regard to the flexibility of ERTs, it seems to us to be a reasonable measure. I believe that different measures will have to be addressed for different sectors and with some generosity in order to try to save some companies. With regard to labour reform, you are well aware of our position. We understand that labour reform must be changed in some respects, there is no point in repealing it in its entirety, and you must not be concerned about the pact between the Socialist Group and Bildu, because it lasted hours, and at a few hours the Socialist Group has already come back. Therefore, do not worry about this measure. As far as measures to generate and increase the liquidity of companies are concerned, we agree. We understand that one should be for companies to charge and pay on a day-to-day basis. That is why I urge you, when this plenary session comes, to support it and not block it as you and the Socialist Party blocked it in the previous parliamentary term. With regard to superfluous spending or inefficient spending, we could also agree, but here I think we should also do a very much concrete exercise, beyond the studies of Spending Review that the AIReF can do. And as far as taxation is concerned, the truth is that it has surprised me. Let's see if they explain it to me, because I'm going to incorporate this one-sided tax into my tax classes to the students of Business Administration and Management. I knew a lot of unilaterality, in the tax field I still didn't know how to identify it, and so let's see how we classify these taxes, unilaterals, bilaterals and multilaterals. Beyond the joke, all taxes pass through this House, and we can either agree or disagree. We in some sure we'll disagree and in others not. Therefore, we should be quite accurate in this. And with regard to the fixing of no tax, I believe that taxes should not be raised generically, but I will not refuse to have any tax increases, and I advise you not to do so either. In the last crisis that had to be overcome there was also a brutal public deficit and, do you know what the People's Party did, with some responsibility at the time? He had to raise taxes, although he didn't take it on the election program. So let's be responsible. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u141	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u142	Mr. President, with your permission. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, this motion that you bring us here today brings me to a debate that we had two years ago. On that occasion, we were discussing a motion that led to an inquiry into the deceleration of the Spanish economy that you presented. On that occasion we already told you how paradoxical it seemed to us that it was precisely you, the champions of austerity policies, who made recommendations on how to recover the economy, given the situation to which you led us. Today, again in a scenario of social and economic crisis, we attend another chapter in the series 'The economic recipes of the PP'. First of all, they continue to call their 2012 labour reform a success, a reform that brought precariousness and poverty to thousands of workers, and that we once again strongly reject. Our proposal in this regard is a new labour framework that guarantees decent working conditions, and that does not sustain growth on false competitiveness, low wages and more precarious work. This brings me to the second big quid of the question. Taxation and its neoliberal policies have defended tax cuts over and over again, and it is true that they have reduced them when they were able - not always, was reminded by Mr Bel - but only to the rich. It is no coincidence that the very ones who want to reduce taxes to the rich are the same ones who want to burden the welfare state. It is obvious that social needs can only be maintained through increased income and rationalization of expenditure. It is necessary to raise taxes, but not to the working classes, to the self-employed, but to the big companies and fortunes of the speculative economy, fighting against the circumvention and tax evasion of these. It is also necessary to prioritise social investment over other expenditure; the last thing to be cut is in social investment. You see we don't agree on anything, for your peace of mind and mine. I bring you a couple of dates, a couple of examples. The OECD itself, which is not suspected of being a social communist organization, in a recent study recommends that Member States balance their public accounts by increasing taxes on property and capital in order to deal with inequalities; and even more so, what would friend Rego say, the pope himself, the holy father himself, without any complex, said last week that a new, more inclusive socio-economic model is needed, where social inequality is reduced; that it is therefore necessary to reverse an economic model based on the cult of money and the domination of the rich and powerful. I call you modestly to discernment about this important debate of two flags: the common good versus the accumulation of excessive wealth. To do this, many things need to be changed. And in that sense, I have to reassure you. Don't worry too much, as it seems that the legal framework that allowed austerity will remain in force. Because the Government, which proclaims that this crisis will be resolved in reverse to the previous one, maintains intact the entire legal framework with which austerity was applied: article 135, the Law on Budget Stability and the Law on Rationalization of Local Government. And this is a question for you, gentlemen behind the government bank: how do you intend to do the opposite with the same instruments? When will they understand what the autonomy of communities and local authorities means, instead of understanding and applying the principle of subsidiarity - let me remind you -? They are now proposing, precisely, that the municipalities finance the State. Finally, we will not vote in favour of this unamended motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u143	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u144	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the coalition government is being questioned about the social and economic reconstruction measures it proposes. So far, the Government has worked to control the health emergency and has worked, together with social actors, to avoid economic debacle and to cushion, as far as possible, the impacts of this unprecedented pandemic, through measures such as the ERTE, which have saved 550 000 businesses and 3,400 000 workers. These measures have fulfilled their task, which was to dampen the blow. But yes, ladies and gentlemen, the situation remains very difficult, dramatic, and the most effective way to progress towards a situation of certainty and economic security is through the adoption of general budgets that put life at the centre. We are starting a new phase and I would even dare to say that we are starting a new era and, from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in common, we believe that the reconstruction plan should not serve to return to what was before. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, what do you want? Do you want an economic model based on brick and seasonality, on precarious contracts that lead young people to suffocation, without life plans, drowned each month in rents, forced to pay up to 94 % of their salary in order to live alone, without knowing if they will have a salary next month, or if they will have to go back home to their parents with their gachas ears, if they have that luck, the never-paid overtime, the 'if you're not at ease, I have another five in the queue'? Do you know what that is? I wish you knew, I wish you would live it, because that is the result of your labor reform; labor reform that if you want to know what we are going to do with it, read the coalition government's agreement. [[Applauds]] Even the IMF, unsuspecting of Castrochavista inclinations, confirmed in February that the labor reform designed by you - and those who send you - resulted in a decrease in working hours, an increase in involuntary part-time work and an increase in poverty especially among young people. [[The lady]] I can only think of two reasons to agree to such a model: the first is ignorance and the second is interest, because you and your bosses should have the young workers well tied up; you should have the young people unable to organize their lives, exhausted from uncertainty, with the fear in the body to know if they can chain up a new contract, because that is the only way to accept wages of misery and no right. But if, fortunately, ignorance was the reason, they are in time to apologize for the harm they have done to the young people of this country; it would be the least they could do, because to my generation no one will be able to return the last ten years of precarious life. In an exercise of surrealism, ladies and gentlemen, they insist on reducing public spending. But let us see, ladies and gentlemen, that I see them a little lost: Europe has just approved a fund of 650 billion public expenditure. All neoliberals have become Keynesians. How do you think the productive tissue is sustained after a pandemic? How do you think the social shield's holding up? Ladies and gentlemen - and I am addressing the majority of the investiture - we have a window of opportunity in the forthcoming general budgets. We must take advantage of the strengths of our economy and the resources from the European Recovery Fund to transform the productive model once and for all. We have the key, let's open the door. Let us move towards a sustainable, diversified economy, accelerating the ecological transition and digital transformation, investing in science and research. Let us move towards an economy of care, because if we do not, care will continue to fall on the shoulders of women, perpetuating inequality. Let us move towards an economy where wealth is better redistributed, where the most has and receives the most who needs it, advancing in the progressive tax system, because this is the only way we can sustain the pillars of the welfare state. Let us move towards an economy that lays the material foundations for youth to have a present and a future that is safe from precariousness and anguish. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, to design the productive economy of the twenty-first century. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Nova. Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u146	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, let's get to the point, that there is very little time. You guys have a lot of problems. One of them is evidently the innumerable plots of corruption that harass them every day. [[Rumors]] Don't get nervous. I believe that they are the party in this case with the most debts of justice, or justice, that exists throughout Europe. Then they have another problem - this one they didn't like, to see if they like the next one -. The second problem I want to point out is that they have an immature leader. Today he says one thing by WhatsApp, tomorrow he says another by email and in person he says another. He has no reliability at all. While Feijóo extends his hand to the Government, he makes a mango cut to the President of the Government, who intends to do something urgent and necessary for this country as are the budgets of the State and as is the renewal of the institutional bodies. That's the immature leader of the People's Party. I should like to warn you that you certainly have a very long journey in the desert, which will always go through a change of leadership in the People's Party, because it has no sense of state, no sense of state, no sense of responsibility, as the President of the Government of this country deserves. [[Applauds]] But I am going to tell you about the third problem, which is your lack of credibility in these policies that are highlighted in this motion today. You're talking about extending the ERTE. Listen, but if you were the ones who took the allowance from the older than 52, if you were the ones who took Social Security from the non-professional caregivers. You have become especially condescending. Why didn't you implant it into the crisis that it was up to you to manage? Now there are millions of people who have been guaranteed income under the circumstances of a pandemic as serious as the one we are living in. Therefore, you have no credibility. You're talking about labor reform. This labour reform has already begun to change and will continue. Today the Council of Ministers has adopted a strategy, but of course both in the ERTE and in the labour reform is essential the form, which is to convene the Bureau of Social Dialogue, to agree the rules of play in the field of work with economic and social actors to give stability and that we all benefit, so that there really do not occur imbalances in the distribution of income. Well, that's what we're going to do and we're doing it and there are already three agreements with the economic and social actors in this country. You are talking about the ICO which was, fortunately, a pioneering measure in Europe and which has the highest internationally recognised effectiveness. Why didn't you start it when there were so many SMEs that needed it during the previous crisis? You did not then, but now you do realize that this step taken by the progressive government is useful and you say that we move on. You are talking, for example, about reducing superfluous spending. It draws my attention to what you say. What a lack of credibility! What does that mean? That you, who cut €25 billion in public spending in 2012, more than all Trump cuts, seems to have put aside a lot of superfluous spending. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u147	I beg a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u148	And what they did was just to take on many of the resources of social policies. The spending review is already under way with a progressive government. With regard to tax reform, two new taxes are already under way with the majority support of the House, and on the other hand, an agreement that will be concluded according to the opportunity that the Government and the rest of the political forces are of course considering. We have two fundamental challenges, ladies and gentlemen, because this government is in progress, this government is a government that is in progress. You are seen to be overly idle, but this Government is already under way and the recovery is under way. That is the reality and so the forecasts for the third quarter, the data on the consumption of electricity and cars, say. Recovery is under way but we have two fundamental challenges: one, the reconstruction plan, and the other, the general budgets of the State. Neither of the two things you are talking about in that motion and are two fundamental challenges because with these two challenges we are giving the Spanish economy international credibility. But you don't care about the lack of credibility, you don't care about anything.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u149	Mr. Hurtado, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u150	I conclude, President. I call for accountability on the part of all to address these two major challenges. We cannot be in a continuous war between us in a situation as critical as the one we are living in. On the other hand, it is essential to transform these two challenges into a great opportunity to transform the Spanish economy and give it modernity in terms of digital transition, ecological transition, cohesion and equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u151	Mr. Hurtado, you have to finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u152	I'm done. These are fundamental challenges. I encourage you and make a sincere appeal to all of us to go shoulder to shoulder and to lead this country towards what all the citizens of Spain deserve: progress, well-being and equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u153	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Mr Castellón Rubio, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u154	Madam President, although we can share some of them - this is a general economic policy motion - they are very concrete. We would prefer it to be voted on as presented.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u155	Thank you very much. The motion will therefore be voted on in the terms in which it has been tabled by the proposing parliamentary group. After this debate, I should like to inform you that the last two motions following urgent appeals will be discussed tomorrow following urgent appeals. We shall proceed in five minutes to vote on proposals for legislation. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have already cast the vote through the telematics procedure cannot do so again from their seats. Thank you very much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote, we shall read out the institutional declaration of support for people with cystic fibrosis and their families. Mr First Secretary of the Bureau, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u157	Institutional declaration of support for people with cystic fibrosis and their families. Cystic fibrosis, also known by its acronyms, is a chronic, hereditary and degenerative disease that mainly affects the digestive and respiratory system by thickening all the fluids of the body. [[FQ]] People with QF have respiratory, digestive and other obstructions that can eventually lead to serious infections, often requiring a bipulmonary transplant. In any case, because there is no cure for the moment, these people's life expectancy is limited and their daily and work activities mediated by the disease. Science is also advancing in this field, and fortunately research now allows treatments that dramatically improve the quality and life expectancy of people suffering from it, but there is still a long way to go to a cure, so it is very important to continue investing in research. It is estimated that the incidence of cystic fibrosis in Spain is one case every 5,000 live births. In addition, one in thirty-five individuals is a healthy carrier of the disease gene, which means that between 1.5 and 2 million people are carriers of a QF gene in our country, an important point, since there is a 25% chance of transmitting the QF gene to children when both parents are healthy carriers of the disease. However, since it is a rare disease, its visibility is lower, so all efforts to make it known will be in favour of early detection of cystic fibrosis in newborns, as well as in the greater attention to people suffering from it, who are around 2500 in Spain. A high percentage of them are girls and boys. For them and they to contract any other disease that has effects on the respiratory system is especially dangerous. Therefore, the return to schools of these girls and boys following the crisis of COVID-19 is a matter of particular concern that should be considered with particular care by the educational system. The International Association of Cystic Fibrosis, together with the Spanish Foundation of Cystic Fibrosis, promote September 8 as World Disease Day. The Congress of Deputies, on the occasion of the World Day of Cystic Fibrosis, expresses its solidarity with all the people affected by this disease and declares the House's commitment to the special care needs they require in order to be able to develop their lives as normal as possible. In this regard, the Congress calls for the implementation of the necessary measures to promote the access of these people to the medication they need and to the creation and recognition of multidisciplinary units that will help to improve the care of this group with equity. The Congress of Deputies also expresses its appreciation and support for research into new medicines that will help improve the quality of life of people with rare and chronic diseases and in particular with people with cystic fibrosis. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary first.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u159	Let us proceed to the votes. We voted first on the Cantabria Parliament's proposal to reform the Organic Law 8/1981 of 30 December of the Statute of Autonomy for Cantabria, for the elimination of the suffocation of Members of Parliament and of the President and Councillors of the Government. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 144 plus 197 telematics votes, 341; 141 plus 172 telematics votes, 313; abstentions, 3 plus 25 telematics votes, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u160	As a result, the proposal for reform of the Autonomy Statute for Cantabria obtains the House's favourable vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u161	We then vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the amendment of Law 50/1981 of 30 December, which regulates the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 144 plus 203 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 64 plus 96 telematics votes, 160; against, 80 plus 105 telematics votes, 185; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-08-CD200908.u162	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good night. It was nine and five minutes of the night.
