ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to include as the first item, of the Thursday session, the Government communication accompanying Royal Decree 900/2020 of 9 October, declaring the state of alarm to respond to situations of special risk due to uncontrolled transmission of infections caused by SARS-CoV-2. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u2	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Parliament of Catalonia amending Law 52/2007 of 26 December 2007 which recognizes and expands rights and establishes measures for those who suffered persecution or violence during the civil war and dictatorship. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Catalan Parliament who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom I welcome on behalf of the House: Mr Pujol i Bonell, Mr Pedret i Santos and Mrs Albiach Satorres. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Eduard Pujol i Bonell has the floor, first of all, and to defend it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Catalan Parliament, we ask you to vote in favour of the proposed law amending Law 52/2007 of 26 December. What do we propose? Basically do justice, even if it's late. It is a question of returning the individuals who saw how the franchising confiscated paper money through the accounts called rejected bills of exchange or - and I quote textually - through the so-called money paper fund put in circulation by the enemy, according to the decrees of August 1938. Today we want to compensate those who saw how revenge made them lose almost everything. Eighty-two years have passed and we are still doing so, repairing injustices. This situation forces us to reflect. The best way to repair injustice is not by committing it. See, do you believe that current political Spain learned the lesson? Are you convinced that today Spain is a state of law committed to the values that they wanted to inspire the 1978 Constitution? The answer is negative. Today the prosecutors in Cortes, opposed to the haraquiri of the regime voted in this same House in November 1976, today, would be very comfortable with their democracy to the Spanish one. The supporters of the regime today would not express any discomfort, any discomfort, on the contrary, and this is a defeat of democracy. As for Suárez, Suárez!, he wanted to make what was normal in the law on the street. Don't you respect Suarez so much? Well, today, in Catalonia, in Parliament, we cannot discuss everything and this is not normal. The existence of exile and political prisoners is not normal because it is totally contrary to the will of the street and, if they have doubts, consultation, ballot boxes and votes. Converting your democracy into a unique democracy, into a democracy to the Spanish one, has led you to absurdity. Many of you practice neophonism democratically, some without knowing it, but with a smile. Spanish democracy wants to be kind on the outside, but it's very hard on the inside; not a proposal, never!, not a proposal, just toss. Abandoning real democracy, which debate, speaks and parliament was, is and will be insane. Today the Spanish state and its powers continue to leap to a justice that is revenge as on the trains, go!; Spanish justice travels in the Renfe and the European one does so internationally. We come from Catalonia, we come from Catalonia, and neither the threats of the king of October 3 nor all the repression experiments that can create, like application of the unworthy 155, will silence us. We are a nation, we are a nation and we have the right to decide our future. Today we talk about the confiscation of paper money in 1938 and we see how revenge only causes injustice. Well, don't confiscate freedoms, damn it! Today you can stay alone with the obvious, if you want. Yes, we are talking about the repair of confiscated banknotes and illusions, but today you too can leave the trench, the barracks of intolerance and make an effort to understand Catalonia. Catalonia is not an enemy of Spain nor I of you, but the ballot boxes tell us - woe, the ballot boxes!, a lesson yes and another also - that in Catalonia there is a majority that has said goodbye to political Spain that prohibits, which does not want to speak in democratic terms. When you act by silenced voices chosen in the ballot box and that you would have to be sitting here, when you look away, you are again the Spain that confiscated paper money from the losers. Forget the culture of victory, and in the case of Catalonia even more. Even with the harshest repression Catalonia always reborn, because we are a nation that aspires to its fullness. Today in Catalonia there are political prisoners and the last three presidents of the Generalitat have suffered repression in the first person. It has been during the reign of Philip VI, during the reign of Philip IV, all a declaration of concord! [[Rumors and applause]] Be brave, please. We propose to repair an injustice that was made in accordance with the law. In the franchise, the judges would never have given reason to the Republicans who were the victims of that revenge. Do you realize that? Enforcement is not always a guarantee of justice. Forget the Cid Champion - I finish - and regain the idea of peace and democracy of Pau Casals at the UN. The best way not to have to go back to democracy is not to leave democracy. You want justice? Embrace democracy, move away from injustice, never again confiscate freedoms. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u4	Thank you, Mr. Pujol. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor to Mr Ferran Pedret i Santos.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We bring you here today an initiative that began to be discussed in the Parliament of Catalonia just under five years ago, an initiative for partial reform of Law 52/2007, of the Historical Memory Act, an initiative that I would like to point out was the Socialist Group that registered it in the Parliament of Catalonia, although we cannot consider it an initiative that is only the initiative of the Socialist Group in the Catalan Parliament, but that is driven by the memorial movement and associations of those injured by these seizures that occurred during the course of the Civil War and also immediately after its conclusion; an initiative that I would also like to point out that at the time it was remarkable, and it remains so today, that there was no amendment to the whole of the parliamentary groups represented in the Parliament of Catalonia. Furthermore, after its legislative procedure in the Parliament of Catalonia, it was approved to refer it to these General Courts without any vote against, i.e. unanimously, with all votes in favour. I think this is something worth highlighting. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, public policies of memory must be guided by the principles of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. From the point of view of the truth, it can objectively be found in the explanatory statement of the proposition that we bring to your consideration today, and exposed in a very dispassionate way and without any kind of bias, what happened. It happened that at the outbreak of the Civil War and when the fronts were consolidated, the Spanish economy was broken in two, the monetary system was broken in two, and the side immediately raised, in November 1936, issued provisions, a decree law specifically, on 12 November 1936, declaring that the republican banknotes issued after 18 July 1936 were not valid and that the pre-date bills had to be stamped by the Francoist authorities. Subsequently, on 27 August 1938, three decrees were issued by which these funds were created in the Banco de España, controlled by the Government of Burgos, to deposit the Republican banknotes for which their change was rejected or which were seized as the subordinated army advanced positions. It is also evident that the third of those decrees of 27 August, which also considered it a contraband offence to possess republican banknotes dated after 18 July 1936, placed enormous pressure on many people of completely disparate socio-economic status to hand over the savings of their entire lives to the Francoist authorities, since, if not, there were clearly serious risks to their security. In addition, they did so in exchange for a receipt and without being able to obtain justice, either at the moment or afterwards. Many families never received anything in return for the receipts or savings they had provided. In the context of a very harsh post-war period, that meant huge sacrifices for a lot of families, for everyone, but having had to deliver all your savings, you can imagine what the situation of these people was. Therefore, justice, they did not obtain it and have not yet obtained it; reparation, we are about to do so - this proposal of law wants to open a door so that there can be a reparation, a reparation for all those who suffered the seizure of their property, their paper currency or other fiduciary signs - and guarantees of non-repetition. The best guarantee of non-repetition is that there can be public policies of democratic memory, that these issues can be discussed in parliaments and that solutions can be found. Some people hate this kind of public memory policy and have no problem showing it publicly. Recently, on social networks it has even been threatened - with not knowing what - if the Historical Memory Act is not repealed. Being in the Cortes Generales and in the city of Madrid, I tell those people that the popular memory cannot be erased, cannot be cancelled and that, for example, even if they remove the plates and statues, or paint them, of Indalecio Prieto or Francisco Largo Caballero are indelibly in the memory of the workers' movement of this country, of the ghettoism of this country and of the socialism of this country. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Pedret. Finally, for the presentation of the initiative, he has the word Jessica Albiach Satorres. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u7	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. As the Members who have spoken before me commented, today we are taking a step further in justice with those retaliated by fascism in our country. Again, it is a further step forward thanks to memory associations, organised civil society, which have been marking the pace of public policies on justice and reparation. So the first thing I want to do is thank all of them. I must confess that when I was told that I had to come to Congress to defend this bill the first thing that came to my mind was a question, and the question was: How can we have in this Parliament people who are unable to condemn the dictatorship, to condemn their crimes and, above all, how can there be people in this Parliament who are unable to say yes to an act of justice as basic, as elementary, as it is to repair all the victims of the economic repression that also involved the Civil War? But it is that of you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, absolutely nothing is expected. You are the rescues, you are the remnants of that far right and you only defend private property when it is yours, when it is your friends' or when it is the Franco family, as we all could see with the Peace of Meirás. In addition, next week you will come here and delight us with a motion of censure which I must say is quite useless, which does not generate any kind of consensus, which blurs the priorities that our country must have, such as the fight against the health, social and economic crisis, and such is dialogue. But I also have to tell you something else, and it is much better a motion of censure in this Congress, even if it is useless, than demonstrations with Nazis in Barcelona, as the spokesman - who will have his motion of censure - did yesterday, Mr Ignaci Garriga. Therefore, I insist, it is a pointless motion of censure, but better motions of censure in Congress than demonstrations with the Nazis, as Mr Ignasi Garriga did yesterday. [[Applauds]] Democratic memory is not only important for reviewing the past, but also for analysing the present and, above all, for building a better future, because without memory we cannot advance in democracy. And here's the key: avoiding past mistakes, guarantees of non-repetition. That is why we are pleased that this progressive coalition government is working on the preliminary draft law on democratic memory. I would also like to highlight some steps that are important, for example, the declaration of nullity of the trials that took place during the franchise; absolutely illegitimate, illegal and unsecured trials. I think it's time - there's a lot of people in this Congress who know it's time - that, once and for all, the trial against President Companies be overturned. [[Rumors]] It is high time, he is the only democratically elected European president who was shot by fascism, with a summarising war council. [[Applauds]] Don't get nervous, it's time for this trial to be overturned. It was a process against everything that symbolized Companies: freedom, the Republic and Catalonia, and Thursday will be eighty years. So it's time; and don't get nervous. But we need to continue to advance in democracy because while you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, accuse us of wanting to end Spain, you want to appropriate it. And you know what happens? That that won't happen; that won't happen. And they will not pass because Spain knows itself to be republican, to be secular and to be plurinational; and they will not pass because you are the past and we are the future. Therefore, in the face of their machism, we will give them more 8-M; in the face of their negationism, they will have more ecological transition; and in the face of their privileges, there will be more rights, more public health and more public education. I'm done. The other day you, from the party's official account, had the little shame of threatening by saying, "Derogate the law of historical memory; first warning." And I say to them, Look what has happened with Golden Dawn in Greece; first warning, first warning. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Albiach. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. He has requested the use of the turn against the VOX Parliamentary Group. I have the floor on behalf of this group, Mr Aizcorbe Torra.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen from the Parliament of Catalonia, I would like to confirm to you that I am also Catalan; to confirm to you that I am Catalan and that yesterday I was in Barcelona with another Catalan, Mr Ignacio Garriga, and I can assure you that neither Mr Ignacio Garriga nor the one who speaks to you are Nazis, but it was the Nazis who claimed that we did not celebrate Hispanic Day. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Today we are dealing with a proposal for a law amending Law 52/2007, known as the sectarian Historical Memory Law; a proposal adopted unanimously by all groups in the Parliament of Catalonia, in a session of 8 March 2017, with the vote in favour of the whole left and with the vote in favour of all groups, with a lit defense of the Citizens' Group of the Historical Memory Law by its spokesman, Mrs Lorena Roldán, and of course also with the vote in favour of the People's Party, which, in a confusing exposition, recognizes that there was debt and expoliation on the part of what was called the legitimacy of the Republic. - By the way, that spokesman of the People's Party is now the president of a confused association called Catalan Civil Society. And so it turns out that what marks the left, which has been marking throughout the history of 141 years a dump of lies, buys it part of the right without realizing that with it we are destroying our past, our present and also our future. [[Applauds]] Go ahead that the only amendment we could share on that liberticized law is its immediate repeal. No Parliament is legitimised to define our past and less to exclude Spaniards who differ from their definitions. The past cannot be used to divide us; on the contrary, we must remember all those who from different historical perspectives fought for the defense of Spain and the Spanish. To this end I repeat here, again, something that you already know your lords and it is the presentation by the VOX Parliamentary Group of a proposal for a law repealing rule 52/2007, of the liberticide Historical Memory Law. Second warning, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] On the adoption of the current bill, we have three objections, or three levels: factual questions, which are facts; technical questions, which are legal questions and, of course, political questions. Fact-finding issues, the facts. The exchanges that are now intended irregularly, subsequently and by a minority who calmed down at the time, were carried out and executed by thousands of citizens who were able to satisfy the change without problem. None of this is said here, partially mutilating the truth as always. Moreover, since the autumn of 1933 you know that there were two monetary systems, that of the so-called national zone and that of the so-called red or republican zone, and that both listed in the Paris currency system which was and is a free market; that market concluded that such money, that of the republican zone, was becoming less and less valuable. So the Spaniards of the 21st century, besides in these difficult times, we do not have to pay for the broken dishes of the bad economic policy that carried out lords like Negrin or Largo Caballero, two icons of the Second Republic and authors of the plundering of the arks of the Bank of Spain and thousands of private deposits, ignoring article 45 of the Constitution of 1931 that said: the State must safeguard 'all the artistic and historical wealth of the country, whoever owns it', constituting the cultural treasure of the nation 'which will be able to prohibit its export and alienation and decree the legal expropriations that it considers appropriate for its defense'. [[...]] Or, what also happens to the funds of all the Spaniards, since in the autumn of 1936, after the decision of President Azaña - now dear for all the consensus progresses - that the best way to manage the reserves was the Soviet bank, and it is from there that Negrin sent 7800 boxes of gold ingots to Moscow? Aren't we going to claim that? Aren't we going to claim it? What about that and its current causatives? Do we remember anything about the treasure of Life, remember? Or the numismatic requisition of the National Archaeological Museum - which in 1925 had 160 000 coins, 15 000 medals and half a thousand engraved pieces - which was commissioned by the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Public Education and Fine Arts, Wenceslao Roces with the competition of Don Antonio Rodríguez-Moñino? [[Applauds]] Roces returned from exile and was a communist senator in the 1977 elections and, obviously, like all communists, he never took responsibility for those events. Or perhaps about the dispossessed and dispossessed of their property before and during Czech stays? I refer, as an example, to the famous street Vallmajor in Barcelona. Larraz, a key figure as Minister of Finance, at that time drafted the Unlocking Act in 1939 - and his lordships know it very well - and in it clear criteria are set for the recovery of funds and exchanges; these criteria apply to full satisfaction, the exchanges are produced for a large majority of those affected. Do we have to keep talking about all this? Can't we leave chair freedom to historians? Do you want to continue with the censorship of the Historical Memory Act? Do you want to expand it? [[Applauds]] The only extension is its repeal. But what also happens to all the funds seized in the so-called red zone in private boxes, savings boxes and banks, which have not been recovered and have been requisitioned by decrees of the Generalitat and the Republican zone? Such discrimination cannot be a source of privilege for those who calmed down at the time, and not only at the time, but also later. Do you realize, ladies and gentlemen, where we are in this debate around with the Historical Memory Act? Do we really have to go on with this? Really? Facts that could be more, that each one will have his own, each one has in our families ours, on one side and on the other, of course yes and unfortunately, but that are, each one, unquestionable facts. Factual and legal issues. The present proposal for a law is based on the initiative of an association of those injured by the seizure of the Francoist Government and the various groups stated that, in fact, they were the protagonists of this proposal for a law, that association. What does the association argue? For, perhaps, they did not charge the exchange for fear, since that decree was published by the BOE and it is very likely that many people would not find out, and for the lack of endorsements. The association says so. It is clear that such a proposal for a law violates any rule of certainty and application of the law, and that, in fact, that stillness they had at the time cannot now be transferred to discrimination that undermines the minimum rules of law and the rule of law. To conclude the political issues. He had more legal issues, but he doesn't give time. The political issues are: Who is the association of those affected by the seizure of the Francoist Government? You know that? You know them, I think. An association created in 2009, in the light of the Historical Memory Act, for a dozen hypotheticals damaged in money exchanges, which did not exercise at the time, twenty-five years later even after the death of the former head of state. But who advises such an association? You know that? This association is advised by the law firm Ilocad, which in Spanish, despite being announced in English, is an international law firm for cooperation and development, and who is the owner and icon of that law firm Ilocad? No more or less than Mr Baltasar Garzón himself. [[Applauds]] Here they have the true purpose of this proposition that is presented in a shameful way in this Congress!, not the recovery by potential harmed. They are absolutely wrong because they don't even talk about the recovery of everything that the Generalitat of Catalonia devalued. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote against this proposal for a law on factual issues, on legal issues, on political issues and because we believe in the rule of law. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u10	Thank you, Mr. Aizcorbe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Pujol i Bonell has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u11	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opening speech I asked your ladies and gentlemen, representatives of Spanish democracy, to move away from injustice. Listening to VOX one has the feeling that we've hit the nail. VOX speaking in black and white, attuning the UHF. Are you convinced that the Constitution has not become the arrogant excuse to silence voices, desires, ideologies? Are you convinced that there is no abusive, crooked, absurd interpretation against the representatives of the Catalan institutions today? I insist, the best way to repair injustice is not by committing it; neither today nor eighty years ago. Confiscating paper Republican currency on behalf of the winners was, is and will be unworthy, as today it is unworthy to have people in jail just for their ideas. Do not listen to the ballot box when the Catalans vote should also be repaired, ladies and gentlemen, with democracy. The prosecutors at Cortes believed that the regime was eternal and the reality of it fell, democracy is only eternal if it is respected. Listen to the reality of Catalonia and do not confiscate freedoms, never again. And one last thing to the gentlemen of VOX: I too am Catalan and I want the freedom and independence of my country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u12	Thank you, Mr. Pujol. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Pedret i Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u13	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have spoken in our previous speech about the principles that must guide public policies of memory, principles that are applicable in Spain and in all the countries that implement public policies of memory, which have experienced conflicts similar to those that here involved the Civil War and the dictatorship. And then we have attended VOX's revisionist discourse and one almost remains as the only argument to say that of quod erat demonstrum, the lack that makes those principles govern public policies of memory. But the truth is that VOX's intervention does not surprise us because it manages to make a complete escape from the context in which that exchange of paper money or other fiduciary signs was to occur as if it were an absolutely normal situation, as if it had been, let us say, a mere process, for those who were defeated especially in the war. Because when those tickets were seized it affected everyone, people of all socio-economic status and political or trade union affiliation or none, but to recover that money, to get the exchange effectively, one was presented with endorsements. Yes, yes, the spokesman for VOX said so. What kind of endorsements? Not bankers, of course; political endorsements. One had to be presented with people affected by the new authorities, affected by the dictatorship and, if not, it was very difficult, if not impossible, to obtain such compensation. Therefore, let us take that context into account. I say it in the most dispassionate way possible. And the truth is, it saddens me to hear certain speeches. I think that the policies of memory and the memory of a humble farmer of La Roca de la Sierra, whose name is not going to be pronounced here because it would be unfair for many thousands, we Socialists in this debate dedicate these words, because what we are talking about today is perhaps the reparation of a seizure of paper money, but behind there was the hunger of many families who had a very bad time during the post-war period. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u14	Thank you, Mr Pedret. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mrs Albiach Satorres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u15	Thank you, President. As I said before, we do not expect anything from the ladies and gentlemen of VOX, so what I wanted to put forward is a reflection. Do you imagine for a moment Macron and Merkel making a pact with the extreme right and whitening it as the People's Party does here and as citizens do here with VOX? I think the answer is obvious and the answer is that no, so to you, the people of the People's Party and Citizens, I want to talk about it. I think you would do well to be a democratic right to the European as in Italy, as in France and as in Germany, with an anti-fascist political culture because you are the shame of the European right. Because while imposing a health cord on VOX would have to be an unquestionable democratic consensus, you are ruling with them, because while you accuse the rest of the anti-democratics, you intend to rewrite history by resurrecting fascist propaganda, sowing hatred and removing the symbols and names of the streets of workers' movement people as Long Knight and as Prieto Indalecio and because, while you scandalize with tweets simply by criticizing an institution like the monarchy, you want to overthrow a democratically elected government in the ballot box by manipulating the judiciary and, moreover, by using the crown. So I end with a plea: please break the emotional kidnapping you have with VOX because you will be doing yourself a favor, but also this country. Because it cannot be that parties that would have to be defenders of democracy such as the People's Party and Citizens are emotionally kidnapped by the extreme right and not pass in any other country in Europe. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Albiach. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u17	Thank you. For kidnapping, the one of our best, Ortega Lara's. [[Applauds]] In the end, with the legal issues - here we deal with legal issues - we have to have some rigour, and this proposal of law that you present, Mr Pedret, says - and allow me, President, to say it with a small phrase in Catalan - I think they have understood it, but what it says is: We present this proposal of law, that we do not know what we are asking for or how much we are asking for or why we are asking for it. [[continues his speech in Catalan]] That's what he says. [[Laughs and applause.- Rumours]] We should have a kind of legal right to see all the shortcomings that this bill has, all the indefinitions that this bill has. However, being one the Political Chamber, where, in fact, there are Catalans that we think of in one way or another, and where no one should flaunt the authenticity of being Catalan, because it is one of the best formulas of being Spanish, we obviously refer to political issues. I don't know if they want to talk, and they've talked about it, about Companies, one of the biggest causes of the murders that took place during the Republic in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] I don't know if you want to talk about the currency traffic sponsored by a Florenci Pujol. I don't know if you want to talk about this in relation to the bill, but you're on your way. Look, we don't hate our opponents. We love what we stand for. We, in the face of the fist of hatred that embodies the left at this moment, and which is accompanied by the silence of the good people on many occasions, do not work. My faith, our faith prevents us from hating. My faith exhorts me to forgive. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] But my conscience, our conscience, obliges us through the instruments of truth, goodness and beauty to defend freedom, to defend Spain and the Spanish, to defend the dignity of the person and to defend the rule of law. And that's why we're here. Keep one thing in mind, we're not here to stay, no, we're not here to stay, we're here to rule, we're ready to rule, and we're going to rule, sooner than later. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u18	Thank you, Mr. Aizcorbe. I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa, to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u19	Thank you, President. Mr. Aizcorbe, do you know what this is? If you don't see it right, well, I'll tell you, it's a wipe cloth. I use it when I don't see it too well. You say that yesterday you were not in a demonstration with Nazis; wipe your glasses, there were Nazis, they wore Nazi flags, they wore Nazi symbolism, they did the Nazi greeting and were at your side. If you didn't see them it's that you didn't want to see them or that you were wearing the dirty glasses, maybe. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] There are political sectors that are uncomfortable with the expression regime of 78; and even more so that their continuity with franchising is indicated. This week, for example - we are all aware - 80 years after the shooting of President Lluís Companies, the only case in Europe where a democratically elected president is executed by his political enemies. The annulment of his trial, a trial without guarantees, has been impossible during the years following the Transition, until in 2017 the Parliament of Catalonia annulled all the judicial proceedings of Francoism. We use the example of Lluís Companies to point out all these continuitys that have been and continue to be given more than forty years later; and the reparation of those injured by the cancellation of Republican money is another example. And that's because there wasn't a democratic break with the dictatorship. This idea, this struggle, that of democratic rupture, was the flag of the anti-Franco opposition during the struggle against the regime. The PSOE and the PCE, the Communist Party, are well aware of this until the idea was imposed that it was better a pact with the reformist sectors of the regime. This explains the continuity of the Transition. Now, the flag of the breakup is only raised by the independence forces; we can't even dare to formulate this idea; it's a taboo. And as if it is a taboo to claim the democratic rupture with the continuity of Francoism, another of the fundamental truths of the Spanish political order is ignored, which is that Francoism did manage to implant its rupture with what was, at the time, the republican legal order; a rupture that they made by force of arms and with the help of the Nazi regimes of Germany and Italian fascist. And for example, what the Parliament of Catalonia brings to us for discussion: the order of April 1938 and the decrees of that summer are a demonstration of that reactionary rupture that was imposing fascism as it conquered more territory. The Bank of Spain notes issued after 18 July 1936 lost their value overnight, amounting to 13 200 000 pesetas of legal money in circulation and more than 10 billion in current accounts. This decree, moreover, was another instrument of the economic war that the fascist military had begun with the issuance of its own currency and which is an economic war that was planned, as the historian José Ángel Sánchez Asian explained. The Government of the Fascist Military introduced into the international currency market the pesetas seized in the conquered territories of the loyal and republican forces and, in this way, the republican currency suffered a great depreciation. Beyond the financial war, the decree was also a punishment for the people and territories who had spent the war in the republican zone, since that money never returned. From here, behind each case of the so-called rejected bills for exchange or of each receipt of the so-called Money Paper Fund put into circulation by the enemy, there is a personal history of people who have struggled to recover their savings, and many will no longer be able to see it; a recognition from here, precisely, to the Association of those harmed by the Franco seizure. And one last question. Whenever issues of historical memory are addressed there are forces to which their legs tremble, because the heirs of Francoism, in fact, shout a lot when the historical memory is approached. Now, even - as mentioned earlier - they use drug-trafficking expressions to try to make threats. But let us not be mistaken, the solution to these threats is not to stop talking about these issues or to deal with them with hesitations. Precisely, if they shout so much it is because speaking of historical memory reminds them of the true origin of their positions of power and their positions of influence in society; it reminds them that they rise on that break of 1936, that fascist uprising that gave them these positions of influence, and reminds them that they benefited from the non-break of the Transition, from the continuity with Francoism; it reminds them that the impunity they enjoy to spread hate speech is a historical fact and, as such, may cease to exist one day in the same way as in Greece, because one day the representatives of the dictatorship of the Colonels were defeated and judged, now their heirs of Golden Dawn are judged and defeated. This is the difference with the Spanish Transition. And I end with the ephemeride that made me start this speech, the eighty years of the shooting of President Companies and all the shouting that aroused his figure by the extreme right when we quoted his name. With him you could. With their political background eighty years ago they held a farce trial - with the same arguments that you make against him from this rostrum could be in that War Council - and that time they did, but those who take up their struggle we will repeat to them one of their most emblematic speeches. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u20	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mrs Pozueta Fernández has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u21	Madam President, welcome on. Good afternoon. We share the content of this proposed law amending Law 52/2007, which involves the recognition, extension of rights and the establishment of measures in favour of those who suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship. This bill is a new expression of the false closure that took place in the so-called "transition" and of the existence of a large outstanding debt with much of the Spanish State's citizenship. It is important not to forget and not to lose the reality of what he assumed on 18 July 1936 in the Spanish State. It began a military coup against a legitimate Government of the Second Republic, resulting in a civil war that had consequences of all kinds that still today, 13 October 2020, do not want to be recognized. This bill speaks of the plundering and theft of property suffered by those who did not commune with the regime, but we are interested in going further. It is time to know the truth, and for this it is necessary to judge and recognize who was responsible for the genocide even though many are already dead. Justice, to repair suffering and damage and, ultimately, to show political will. And mentioning the political will, less than a month ago we were aware of the preliminary draft law on democratic memory presented to the Council of Ministers on 15 September, a preliminary draft that, while it has some progress with respect to the previous Memory Act of 2007, the subject of this draft law that we are debating today, is very caught up in issues that I will mention below. We could allude to many aspects that need to be taken into account so that the democratic memory law that is to be brought to this House in the future is an integral law and that they are omitted, but I will stop in some because of its centrality. In this preliminary draft it is intended to show that the Spanish Transition was a model of coexistence and that, as a result of this consensus, the wounds opened during the war and the dictatorship, faithful to the official narrative maintained so far, something striking and far from the reality, because during that period there were serious violations of human rights. In Euskal Herria we remember the massacre of March 3 in Gasteiz, the events of Sanfermines of 1978, the crimes of Montejurra, the second week proamnistia and, closer to here, we also do not forget the black week of Madrid. And if the proposal for a law coming from the Parliament of Catalonia raises the question of the recognition of reparation to the individuals affected by the seizure of paper money and other fiduciary signs during the Civil War, the preliminary draft law on democratic memory does not mention the seizures made by the Catholic Church to the regime and the theft during the Francoism and the Transition that took place to private individuals and to many municipalities of the State through registrations. It is urgent to clarify, to know the truth of these processes and to repair the great spoliation that took place at that time and has lasted until these days. On the other hand, we believe that the Spanish Administration of Justice has pending, among other things, the assumption of its black role during the dictatorship and the formation of part of its structure in international law which applies to crimes against humanity. Now in this preliminary draft on justice and in particular on criminal justice, in no case does the content of the draft guarantee adequate access for victims to the criminal jurisdictional order, because none of the legal obstacles that are repeatedly set out in the judicial decisions handed down by the Spanish courts and tribunals: the Amnesty Act, the statute of limitations of offences and the principle of legality are removed. Last week we knew how the Court of Instruction number 5 of Pamplona filed the complaint filed by the Sanfermines Association 78: Gogoan, relatives of Germán Rodríguez, the Peñas Federation and the City of Pamplona for the events of the Sanfermines of 1978, in which Germán Rodríguez died from gunshots by the police. The court is of the view that the case is brought before the court, on the grounds that the facts complained of were the subject of other proceedings before it. What happened in the Sanfermines of 1978 was a state crime incubated within the framework of the Police and the Ministry of the Interior whose chief politician was then Minister Martín Villa, to whom some still strive to wash their faces; a crime to which the justice of yesterday and today continue to close their eyes to the demand for truth, justice and reparation. As we say, the content of the preliminary draft does not send a clear message to the judiciary that these arguments are not valid under international human rights law and international criminal law. The time had come to repeal or annul the Amnesty Act and to amend the Criminal Code in order to introduce into domestic law the so-called principle of international legality, and the time had come for the Spanish State to ratify the Convention on the Non-Applicability of War Crimes and Crimes against Humanity. In conclusion, I would like to make a point with regard to the Act on Persons Tortured during that period: victims of torture by the State Security Forces and Bodies are not included, torture is only included in the Nazi concentration camps, and this is very serious. I will talk about the reality that is my responsibility: Navarra and the Basque Autonomous Community, southern Euskal Herria, but I am aware that many people who listen to me from other peoples of the State are aware of the scourge and torture during Francoism, the so-called Transition and not too distant times. A report on the incidence of torture and ill-treatment between 1960 and 2014 commissioned by the Basque Government included 4113 documented cases, although it warned that the actual incidence of such crimes was higher, as many episodes of the dictatorship's era could not be credited. Thus, only 1081 complaints correspond to the period of the dictatorship and the first years of the transition, until 1978, while the widespread practice of torture at this time indicates that its size was much larger. I also refer to the report of the Basque Institute of Criminology on torture and ill-treatment in Navarre between 1960 and 1978. 204 files were studied, 169 of which were confirmed and 35 rejected for lack of sufficient documentation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u22	Mrs. Pozueta, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u23	I'm finishing up. The report also stated that virtually all of them had not been provided with care, recognition or redress. Catalonia proposes an important step for the recognition and application of rights, because, like Euskal Herria, it is a people that knows well the consequences that the dictatorship left in our history and in our lives. We are well aware of the impunity of those responsible, the still today injustice towards all these victims, we are well aware of what it is to continue to seek the truth in the courts and also to seek reparation in the courts. That is why it is time to comprehensively address historical memory, a memory based on truth, justice and reparation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u24	Mrs. Pozueta, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u25	Let us go from here to our recognition of all of them and our commitment to continue to fight for their rights. For the neighbors of the neighborhood of Zaramaga, Pedro María, Francisco, Romualdo, José and Bienvenido, victims of March 3. [[Applauds]] By Germán, a victim of the events of San Fermín, and by all those who continue to seek justice. That time to show courage and move forward. Let's do it for them, for all of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Pozueta. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u27	Thank you very much, President. We discussed the consideration of an initiative of the Parliament of Catalonia to amend the so-called Historical Memory Act of 2007, in order to compensate and repair those people with ideology does not affect those raised in 1936 and those who were seized their money on the occasion of the exchange of paper currency issued by the Second Republic by the issued by the raised and, at the end, winners. It is therefore an initiative to redress and bring justice to the people of a group of the many victims of the dictatorship who confiscated their property, along with others who suffered exile, imprisonment and repression. And with this initiative, too indirectly, it is a question of homologating this democracy with that of other countries which have had to recognize similar traumatic situations of the past. Ladies and gentlemen, the description of those seizures does not cease to be a manifestation of what has come to be called the bureaucratisation of evil, because, in the form of a procedure for the exchange of money with remedies included in the courts, the seizure of the one from those whom it considered to be contrary to the uprisings was arranged. And so, at first temporary and as Francoist terminology was freeing up places of Marxist domination, the exchange of money was arranged with a request to the Banco de España, against receipt of it, which should be accompanied by an affidavit on its origin endorsed by three people of recognized economic and moral solvency, which is not hidden from us, and thus it has become evident that they were addicts to the regime, since such solvency was valued with their own measuring rod. And if such an exchange request was rejected by the Banco de España, there was certainly an appeal to an evil so-called court, since it resolved in conscience and consisted of the military authority, representatives of the bank and the corresponding civil governor, and the money thus seized was deposited in an exchange account whose destination would already be provided. That is why we described this procedure as an exchange of bureaucratization of evil, which was nothing other than trivializing it through the appearance of a pseudolegal procedure and an appeal to a pseudotribunal, and, for its part, once the time for the exchange of money had ended, if it had not been carried out by its owners, it was directly seized as a criminal sanction for having incurred the criminal type of possession outside the time of the exchange, seizure to which, by the way, prisoners of war and the corpses of the enemies were also subjected, now all much more brutal. In short, it would now be a matter of this initiative, according to the proposal discussed, to investigate the total of the money seized by these spurious procedures, on which there is certainly a great divergence as to its amount. It would also seek to identify the victims of these seizures and ultimately to implement their return. But, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the substance of the matter, this parliamentary initiative of the Parliament of Catalonia has the procedural particularity of coming from our XII Legislature, which at its completion was transferred to the XIII and from it to the current XIV because those coming from the autonomous communities and from the popular legislative initiative do not expire at the end of each legislature. This temporary gap between the presentation by the Parliament of Catalonia of its initiative and the debate in this House for consideration and in its case processing is relevant in the present case, since the Government, as we all know, is also preparing the reform of the Historical Memory Act, now under the name of democratic memory, whose preliminary draft was adopted on 15 September, so that, if we take into account this initiative of the Parliament of Catalonia, this House would be simultaneously dealing with a proposal and a draft on the same subject, the Historical Reform Act, which would undoubtedly require agreement on the particular procedure to be followed for a joint, certainly infrequent but not entirely unknown to this House. I must also point out as a particularity that the proposal, once taken into consideration, is no longer available to its proposer by making it available to the House, while every project at all times remains available to the Government, provided that the final agreement of this House on this matter has not returned, a circumstance which we certainly assume to be unimaginable in the case of the project we are talking about. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliamentary Group will support the consideration of this proposal by the Catalan Parliament on the understanding that it is being dealt with together with the draft law which the Government will refer to us on the same subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u29	Thank you, President. Most of the debates that have come here about memory often seek a partisan or political outcome, often diverting the debate from what really matters or impacting on that colloquium for the communication gurus of Moncloa, in what has come to be called today the cultural war. Today is not the case; indeed, today is the paradigm that all this I tell you is true, and you will see it next. Let's go over the story very briefly. When the Francoist side declared illegal the currency issued by the Republican Government after 18 July 1936 made the mere possession of this currency a contraband offence, so when the Francoist troops entered an area and occupied it, the citizens handed over this republican currency in exchange for a safeguard. This situation was more serious at the sites that took longer to be occupied by the Francoist side, since at these sites Republican money had been in circulation longer. In this way was created the Fund of paper money put into circulation by the enemy - the nomenclature is of the most curious -. A simple search on the Internet is enough to see many of the originals of these documents that certified having delivered the money, and it details perfectly in which format it was delivered, whether in current currency, in silver or in bonds. All of Spain suffered a very harsh postwar period, but imagine those who had given their money in exchange for a safeguard that unfortunately for many was not going to serve at all. In order to be able to collect it - and this has been obviated by the spokesman VOX - from 1938 onwards they had to be accompanied by the endorsement of people related to the regime, that is, whoever was republican or by simple personal quarrels could be deprived of their savings and in ruin in the midst of the war. Imagine this in the worst years of the 20th century in Spain, with hunger, deprivation of rights and the harshest repression, the war has just ended. Precisely, because of this repression and fear that someone would be found with any of these safeguards, many were burned. The population was paying for a tactic that sought to devalue the currency of the Republic abroad, and while this was happening, like the money seized, as it still had some value outside, business was being done for the buttocks of the Francoist side. There are stories behind these very hard but hopeful roles. There were grandparents or parents who gave their grandchildren or children their most precious possession on the day of their wedding already in democracy. That day they gave them an overture with the protection of the Fund of paper money put in circulation by the enemy. They kept for decades a role with the inscription that recalled the war that probably marked the worst of their lives. They treasured a contradictory document, in which other Spaniards were called enemies within Spain, because at all times we speak of Spaniards, of our compatriots. These papers are another testimony of what should not happen again. These papers should also make those who banalize with the war or parasitize the pain of the past to draw revenues in the present, something very common in this House - it has just been done by a spokesman banalizing the pain and using the suffering of the past for his strange moves on fugitives and doing'medium' of Puigdemont -. By the way, gentlemen of the left, Companies or Prieto, both of you are impossible; read what Prieto said to Azaña about Companies. But, returning to those families, there were people who died in the hope that their descendants would charge for what they lost. Some would be stunned at how the Historical Memory Act compensated trade unions and political parties but not families who lost their money. I recognize my astonishment, although it is also true that the Historical Memory Act had a lot of self-consumption and that many resources have been devoted to subsidizing foundations and little or no to recovering the bodies of men and women from the counties, and, as we can see, it also did not deal with those who lost all their money. Yesterday was the day of the Spanish National Festival. The rights and freedoms we enjoy today are based on successes but also on the pain and sacrifice of millions of Spaniards in the past. It is true that from one of the parties supporting the government a hollow and ignorant 'nothing to celebrate' was launched. But if we take into account that this is a party whose members were going to flatter Hugo Chávez, they congratulate murderers such as Che Guevara or Fidel Castro; if we take into account that they have been financed by Bolivarian dictatorships and use televisions of regimes that hang homosexuals, you, who have a tyrant and liberticide project, did indeed have nothing to celebrate yesterday, because Spain is freedom. We know that Spain is freedom and justice. That is why we believe that this injustice should be compensated. However, first I want to make one thing clear that some here do not understand. Some believe that Spain is the current heir of the dictatorship, as if there had been no deaths to reach this point: the victims of ETA or the lawyers of Atocha. Spanish democracy is not a gift from the Franco dictatorship, let alone the extension of Franco's regime. These words are not mine, they are from a great socialist whose friendship I have the luxury of flagging, José Andrés Torres Mora, speaking of Companies, by the way. Our democracy will therefore repair what a dictatorship has broken; it must be done. We have an obligation to bury the confrontation, to stop considering the enemy of the adversary and to point out the one who thinks differently. Think of all the people who held on to a role that had the enemy word printed referring to compatriots - the same dialectic of the speeches of some spokesmen - a role that humiliated but at the same time harbored the hope of reconciliation, a role that gave them the hope that one day justice and law would be restored, and that day has come. I don't believe in the beyond, but sometimes like this I would want it to exist so that these people could see that their hope and their affection were not in vain and that their descendants finally receive a gift, though late, like that of that wedding that I told them, full of love and suffering; when they receive that money, when they receive much more, because it is much more, it is the end of a story that should never have happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum.-Pause]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u31	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG will support this bill because it is of justice. We are talking not only about moral or political reparation for the victims of Francoism, but also about the material restitution of the seized property, in this case of currency issued by the Government of the Republic, because, moreover, we know that without the second one, the reparation of the victims will never be real or complete. In any case, this initiative shows the political reality of the so lauded - by the parties of the regime, of course, not by us - Transition. The lack of a democratic break with the dictatorship facilitated the continuity of many Francoist structures in the 78 regime that conditioned and still conditions the limitation of democratic rights. But, above all, the Transition constituted a pact with the last managers of the dictatorship who intended to pass the page and extend a slab of silence on the crimes of Francoism, without doing justice to the victims, without even annulling, for example, the councils of war, such as that which condemned to death the Galician nationalist leader Alexandre Bóveda, shot in August 1936; a pact which included privileges for the dictator's family, including honors, such as the Duchy of Franco or the Lordship of Meirás, still in force, but which especially meant closing eyes to the seizure, in some cases for particular benefit, of public property. This is the case of the Pazo de Meirás, but not only that of the Casa de Cornide, an urban palace in the center of A Coruña, that of the statues of Isaac and Abraham of the Portico de la Gloria of the Cathedral of Santiago, work of the Master Mateo, and the Doña Emilia Pardo Bazán Library. It has been the constant struggle of the Galician people, and especially the impulse to that struggle that the Galego Nationalist Block gave, that has made us now on the path of recovering the heritage seized by Franco in Galicia. But, ladies and gentlemen, it shouldn't have been that way. These days the Francisco Franco Foundation itself asked why the claim of the return of the Pazo de Meirás had not been made at the end of the dictatorship. He did so in support of his claim to appeal the court ruling...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u32	Mr. Rego, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u33	I'm done. In any case, forty-five years later it remains a necessity to do so and political determination and legal mechanisms such as the one proposed today are needed. That's why we're going to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Welcome to the Catalonian Parliament's company that you came to bring us this law approved on March 8, 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all remind you of the fact that at the time she was the President of the Parliament of Catalonia, Carme Forcadell, who has been in prison for almost three years unjustly, and also of the members of her Bureau who have faced a trial and are waiting for a sentence shortly for the simple fact of allowing a parliamentary debate. [[applause]] Someday, in the future, I hope that not far away, other Members may remember this injustice, as we systematically do, because we will never be able to normalize the democratic exceptionality in which we find ourselves as a result of the lack of respect for the will expressed peacefully in the ballot box for the citizens of Catalonia on October 1, 2017, whose political consequences we still live today. On October 3, 2017, an ex-alumn of mine from Mexico, Ligia Urroz, gave me her solidarity for what had happened and also this historical document: the sentence of her father-in-law, Albert Folch i Pi, sentenced by Francoist justice to a penalty of total loss of property, perpetual alienation of the national territory and absolute perpetual disqualification. [[shows a document]] Economic revenge, personal revenge, political revenge. I bring it up today because we talk about memory and reparation and it seems that we are in a loop, because in your state you always solve things in the same way, using the laws at your discretion. On the part of the Parliament of Catalonia there has been a clear and unequivocal commitment to historical memory. The consideration proposed today was unanimously adopted. The claim of those affected by Francoist confiscations, fair and rigorously documented, has been laid down by this Congress on two occasions. Parliament votes for it, Congress is burying it, holding it back. Does that ring a bell? We hope that today they will not look elsewhere, as we are used to, and, at the third, the vanquished one. In August 1938, under threat of arrest and being tried for smuggling, the Francoist authorities issued a decree-law which considered the banknotes put into circulation by the Banco de España before 18 July 1936 to be invalid. The aim, in addition to securing resources for the regime, was to implement a more repressive measure against those defeated in the civil confrontation: economic revenge, personal revenge, political revenge. After eighty-two years, by some called in this Chamber a consolidated, full and even perfect democracy, this democracy so Spanish and so undemocratic has not yet been able to make effective the reparation of the particular rights of the persons concerned, an even more unjust aggravation if we take into account that the State has indeed been able to compensate trade union organizations and political parties who are victims of confiscations through mechanisms to grant pensions, compensation or various compensations. It is therefore, more than eighty years later, a question of correcting one of the many decisions imposed by the Franco regime. Spanish democracy replaced Francoism, but did not eliminate it. In some areas, it is clear that it has simply attenuated it. For example, today in the Banco de España it is possible to change franchising currency and, however, it cannot do the same with the republican currency. The legitimate regime was the Republic, current practices legitimize the dictatorship. You see, then, that the management of historical memory continues to carry historical oblivion. It is what dictatorships have, which cause so many side effects that many persist over time. Spanish democracy, which today, well into the twenty-first century, condemns and limits the exercise of fundamental rights, still carries the obligation to regulate the recovery of assets deposited in banks or savings banks during the Civil War and to repair those confiscations made illegally. In 1938 Francoism perpetuated the confiscation of Republican banknotes. Eighty-two years later, Republican longings are rising. The best example is the unstoppable boom of those who, like Junts per Catalunya, defend the desire for Catalonia to become an independent state in the form of a republic; a will to which the Spanish State only knows how to respond with the same currency: repression. The Transition, as a pact of silence, replaced amnesty with amnesia. As long as the right continues to deny the concept of historical memory and does not condemn without palliatives the Franco dictatorship, Spain will not have cured itself of the wounds of its past. I'm done, Madam President. There's no memory without repair. An aesthetically perfect speech is not possible without a political action that embraces it. We're tired of repeating it. Without going any further, President Torra demanded from the City of Barcelona the reparation in the form of a commemorative plaque for two victims of Nazism: President Company and Francesc Boix, the photographer of Mauthausen. Inexplicably, three years ago the act of historical memory was blocked, and today it seems to have been unlocked. Hallelujah! It is always necessary to remember in order not to repeat mistakes, because no one can guarantee that it will not happen again. Our memory is full of the future.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u36	Mrs. Borràs, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u37	Not in vain, Todorov taught us that the totalitarian regimes of the twentieth century have revealed the existence of a previously unsuspected danger: the suppression of memory. Against memory, justice and reparation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Guille. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuet Pujals has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u39	First of all, a fraternal greeting to the deputy and the deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia. Welcome. In Catalonia during the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship, thousands of men and women were killed. His only crime was fighting for republican freedom. Some were killed after a farce of trial, others not even with that, in the Camp de la Bota, the Cementiri de Montjuïc, the tapestries and the cunetas of our country. But one of them was killed in the castle of Montjuic, the only democratic president killed and shot by fascism in Europe. His name was Companies, he was our president. He has inspired thousands, hundreds of thousands of Democrats from Catalonia and outside Catalonia, of different political signs. We'll win, President, your dream will come true. Watch President Companies! [[Applauds]] It is clear that the Memory Act of 2007 was an important step forward, but unfortunately, as the memorialist entities have reminded us thousands and thousands of times, too many important things have been left behind. It has taken many decades for us to regain the momentum that democratic society, memorialist civil society demands of us and to rise to the level of republican history. Therefore, today we address one of the aspects that this law was left in the tinker. We are, of course, talking about paper money, we are talking about rental boxes. Yes, those aspects must be safely subsumed in the future democratic memory law announced by the Government. Therefore, technically, from a parliamentary point of view, these parliamentary initiatives will have to be combined in a single presentation. But it is also good to say and it is good to remember that, yes, as I said before, we will be up to it. Let's talk about our missing people, those who are still buried in the gutters, those hundreds of thousands buried in the gutters. Let us talk about the judgments of Francoism, of that falsehood which was called supreme judgments, which judged and murdered thousands and thousands of democrats. Let us, of course, speak of the Republican guerrillas, of those men and women who fought against Francoism when there was almost no more strength to do so. Let us talk about the Spanish deportees in the Nazi camps, who were also not present in the Memory Act of 2007. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, how much work we have to do. Let us give ourselves a chance and not tremble at fascism. Red Zone was as fascists called republican legality from year 36 to year 39. Well, it seems that there are still fascists today who call that red zone in 2020. [[Applauds]] We owe them, comrades and companions. I am proud that the Catalan Parliament has been a pioneer in the whole state to turn democratic memory into a central public policy into any democratic political action. We did so with the Law of pits in its day, we continued with the Law of annulment of the sixty-four thousand Francoist trials that took place in Catalonia. If your grandfather was shot, today you can ask for a certificate from the Government of the Generalitat that your grandfather was not a criminal, he was a Republican fighter who was vilely killed by Francoism. We do this with the creation of the DNA bank, aspects that now it is up to a state law to collect, as is already done by Catalan legislation at this time. And we owe it all to specific people. It has been recalled before - I too am going to do this - that when this initiative, when this bill was adopted unanimously in the Parliament of Catalonia, that Parliament presided over it by Carme Forcadell and the memory counselor was called Raül Romeva. You have to say it, friends and friends! What irony of fate! Carme Forcadell and Raül Romeva also helped to make memories. [[Applauds]] I'm done. Tell me who you're meeting and I'll tell you who you are. Whoever manifests himself with fascists becomes a fascist. In Greece some of the things we have heard today would already be illegal. I hope that they will soon be illegal in this country too. Stop fascism before, now and always. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u40	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mrs García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u41	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, especially the representative and the representative of the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you so much for being here today. The proposal for a law that comes to us today from the Parliament of Catalonia is, in our view, just, necessary and urgent. This is a proposal for a law that addresses one of the taboo issues from the Transition to the present day, which is that of economic repression during Francoism. It must be recognized that our country has taken important steps - not yet enough, but important steps - in redressing the victims in the most symbolic field. However, the material aspect has not been addressed as it should. Beyond the reparation that, as has been mentioned, received by political parties and trade unions, the civilian population has not received what has been stolen from them since the illegal coup, which remains completely unexplained. And it is that, as has been said, this expoliation to people who lost all their savings, fruit of years of work, brought whole families to misery and hunger. The memorialist philosopher Jordi Ibáñez Fanés says that the memory of history remains uniquely alive in literary works. That is why I want to bring here today the famous poem by Miguel Hernández Nanas of onion, because it speaks precisely of that, of economic repression. The story of the poem is well known. In 1939, Miguel Hernández was in prison when he received a letter from his wife, Josefina Manresa, who was insecure with her son, in which he told him that many days had nothing more to eat than onions. Miguel Hernández answers that he thinks about how his son will feel indignant when he breastfeeds his chest and can only draw onion juice instead of milk. But that indignation in the poet's voice becomes hope. Says one of the stanzas: 'In the cradle of hunger / my child was. / With onion blood / breastfed. / But your blood was dripping with sugar, / onions and hunger. ' If this country wants a future of hope like the one designed by Miguel Hernández, despite the precariousness, it has to recognize that a battle, an economic war against the Republic, has also been waged, and it is not enough to recognize it. As the memorialist entities ask us, especially in this case the Association of those injured by the seizure of the Francoist Government, we must return that money to its legitimate owners. As difficult as it may be and for a long time to come, it is a duty and a responsibility of this State that cannot be evaded for another day. [[Applauds]] I have the honour to belong to a political project that in the Government of Barcelona, since the Council of Historical Memory, has been working tirelessly for years to repair the republican memory and bring to the courts those responsible for fascist crimes. I also have the honour to belong to a parliamentary group that has promoted from the coalition government, together with the Socialist Party, a new law of historical memory, the law of democratic memory, whose aim is to leave behind the silence of once and to repair everything that the previous Historical memory law left in oblivion. And neither can I stop talking about Lluís Companies today or ever today, whose shooting, as has been said, will turn eighty on Thursday. Thanks to this law, your trial will finally be considered illegal and your sentence null and void. As much as they scream, we will not stop asking for justice and reparation for the best president the Generalitat of Catalonia has had. [[Applauds]] I return to the subject of economic and material justice. This democratic memory law, which is to be promoted by the coalition government, also provides for an audit of all assets confiscated by the franchise. It is precisely the economic issue that causes the most concern on one side of this Chamber, and no one will be surprised if I say that side is on my right. I would hardly be surprised, in fact, that thanks to this audit we would discover that some of the hoaxes in which his VOX lords demonstrated yesterday were bought with dirty money, with money piled up by family fortunes thanks to the expoliation of those who fought for democracy and freedom in this country. [[Rumours.-Applause from some Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group]] In front of these here, in front of the heirs of those who stole at the hands of the popular classes, in front of those who continue to settle in the purest fascism and manifesting themselves with Nazism, the democratic parties of this country must unite. And I look directly at Citizens and the PP. Are you willing to join us in a great democratic and anti-fascist pact? [[Rumors]] Judging by the pacts that keep them in Governments such as Madrid and Andalusia, let me doubt it. I wish we were surprised and I wish we could welcome them very soon to antifascism, without ambiguity, because either it is faced with those who threaten from fascism or become their accomplices, and the consequences can be devastating. And this is a warning. First warning, second warning, third warning, everyone in the world. It is not we who threaten; it is not us. [[Rumors]] It's the story that shows it and the story that speaks. Please listen to her. I would like to end by emphasizing that this law of democratic memory also has a marked feminist character and incorporates the gender perspective. From feminism we know well the importance of memory and the need to recover the figures forgotten by history, but we also know, and we know well, the importance of the material, because that is precisely the material conditions, what has been used to relegate women to inequality. I often think, when I go with my son and my daughter to the square that Barcelona dedicated to the women of the 36th, which I will explain to them. I want to be able to explain to you who these women were and why they fought. I also want to explain to my children that, at last, justice has been done to so many years of ignominy. But that also goes so far as to tell you that the state form of this country is not the heir of a dictatorship, which the Spanish and Spanish have been able to freely choose our head of state by voting. Just yesterday we knew the results of the largest study of opinion carried out on the monarchy, and the results are clear and compelling: the citizenship wants to vote, the citizenship wants republic. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u42	Thank you, Mrs. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We are debating today a legislative proposal which, as has already been said, aims to amend Law 52/2007, known by all as the Historical Memory Law, and is being made at a difficult time for Spain. When we are living the harsher health pandemic than any of us can remember, when the virus is being harassed over and over again, when health professionals are leaving their lives to protect our health and when thousands of compatriots are leaving us because of the disease, over and over again the Socialist Party and the coalition government are forcing us to look to the past, to the past of eighty, forty-five or forty-three years, those that tomorrow are being fulfilled in the adoption, in this same Chamber, of the Amnesty Act, in respect of which Marcelino Camacho said that it was the capital part of the reconciliation policy, the only one that can close that past of civil wars; in the same way that Txiki Benegas defended that 'the past that we are beginning to bury never again; our gaze is oriented towards the future and the future for us is freedom for the citizens of this country'. If either of you could see this moment and this House again, I am sure you would feel, at least, disquiet and frustration over the time and efforts to look to the past, instead of addressing the serious problems of the present and laying the foundations for a hopeful future. When all our forces must be led out of this wretched pandemic and the economic and social crisis in which the disastrous management of the Government sinks, we must once again devote ourselves to looking back doubting the Transition and looking, again and again, for ways of breaking the reconciliation pact that was imposed with the generosity of amnesty and was enshrined in the Constitution of 78. But if it is possible today, the strength of the facts means that we can no longer see this initiative with an approach far from what is clearly the will to boost the constitutional pact by the forces that support the coalition Government. You, gentlemen of the PSOE and of the Unidad Podemos, have just registered a proposal for a law that not only tries to invent new formulas of majorities, the viable majorities, in the words of Mrs. Lastra, which is so much like saying those that allow the government to do what it wants; it is much more than that, it involves the unscrupulous intervention of the judiciary. You are implementing the hidden roadmap of the Investment Pact, which involves breaking the Transition Pact and laying the foundations for a new constituent process. [[Applauds]] Attacks promoted, or by omission, the head of State, the judiciary, disrespect for the Constitution, contempt and blockade of parliament and, today, intervention by the General Council of the Judiciary against the Constitution and the so-called constitutional bloc. Nothing, ladies and gentlemen, it's random. You who plan changes to the penal code ad hominem to skip the enforcement of court rulings, who control the State Prosecutor's Office, who impose alarm states to circumvent controls and legislate according to the road map of those who do not want Spain, have lost today any brizna of credibility if they still maintain it. We're in the way of the Senate, let's veto it. We have been disrupted by the judiciary, paralyzed and intervened to realize the thesis of those who want judges to dictate to the government. That, together with that of the health pandemic, is the scenario to which the adoption of this proposal for a law today brings, in respect of which until very recently we believed in his good faith, but today they have made it disappear. Because we also see behind this initiative the dark hand of some lawyer, former judge, who wants a law to dictate the interests of his office. And Mrs. Albiach, who comes to ask us to pass this bill, insults us. And she has the face of talking about democracy or anti-democracy about the People's Party in this house, she who belongs to the party that is dynamizing all the democratic rules of the Constitution! [[Applauds]] It must be recognized that this law has had the impetus of citizens who have maintained hope in a solution that they believe was violated by their ancestors, but it must also be remembered that there have been many post-Constitution milestones that, within the framework of the reconciliation pact, have determined measures of justice and reparation. Those who sealed that pact marked the budgets to keep it strong and not to reopen it constantly, but the drift in which the Socialist Party has entered from forgetting those to put a permanent and interested look at the reinterpretation of the past only reborn the confrontations and division, those who only brought pain and backwardness to our country. Ladies and gentlemen, as was said in the debate in Parliament, this proposal is not equidistant, it does not take into account all situations of confiscation in the same way. It is that bad habit of defending rights by leftist groups, only for some, as soon as it benefits them, even if it harms all others and, above all, the general interest. Recognition is only for the benefit of a few and without guarantees, which we cannot dispense with in a rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, history cannot be rewritten or reinterpreted, as some claim. Few things in our history are simple and resist the simplification of the stage of fleeting headlines and tweets in which we live. Nothing is completely white or completely black. The intricate monetary policy of wartime is becoming increasingly known - but surely incompletely still -. What is evident is that both of them abused the instruments of force and confiscation to take over the movable and immovable property of Spanish citizens and the transition agreements to look to the future are completely ignored. To open permanently the questioning of a stage that our predecessors wanted to close for the good of Spain and the Spaniards is not edifying and returns us to division and confrontation. It draws attention to the fact that this is the moment of the debate, when Vice-President Calvo - and it has already been said - announced a preliminary draft law on democratic memory, Vice-President, which we have been waiting for in the Constitutional Commission for a long time to tell us about this and many things. I confess to you that I have long since ceased to understand the priorities of those who run this House and of the Socialist Party, or perhaps I understand them very well. I'm sure representatives of the promoter's association are watching us and think they've been waiting a long time for a solution. I say to you that your commitment is commendable, which represents an untiring struggle, but that which many others generously no longer wanted to maintain for a future in harmony with all the Spaniards. The intricate monetary policy that has been skewedly discussed and also in the proposal there is no time to summarize it here.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u44	Mrs. Moro, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u45	I'm done, Madam President, right away. It is that of several simultaneous coins with minting in different cities, division of the Bank of Spain, control of changes and taxes, departures of gold reserves from Spain, of silver reserves, breach of obligations; a complex gear to which the first wink made the Republic and also the Republican Generalitat. I conclude by saying that the assumptions to which this proposal refers are, therefore, only a few of the many generated by monetary policies during a war, the Civil War. If there is anything to justify that we dedicate a legal instrument to repair some of these abuses, it is the citizens, the Spaniards who suffered and suffer, but for everyone, with guarantees, without compromising what we do not have and that it is not the responsibility of this administration, as the Council of State has so many times told us, and to look to the future being better. No other motivation can explain this or other reforms in 2020. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Moro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Socialist Group, Mr Lamuà Estañol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u47	Thank you, President. Prisoner number 60090 of the concentration camp of Sachsenhausen, Francisco Largo Caballero, president of the Council of Ministers of Spain, estuchist; Indalecio Prieto Tuero, minister of Spain, stenographer: both dead in exile for having defended Spain and its democracy, pride for the workers of this country, the Socialist Party and UGT. [[Applauds]] His memory will never be erased or stained by fascism. Pride, honor and indelible memory for both of us. [[The applause continues]] For me, it is a pleasure to give this late welcome to the members of the Parliament of Catalonia in this Chamber. This is your home, ladies and gentlemen, because it is the home of all Spaniards. This is where we must all together discuss, agree and adopt those rules that must make our country a better country. It is an honour to have the confidence that the Parliament of Catalonia places in Congress for us to process this law. And I can't help but be glad that this initiative comes here, to this house, and that among its presenters is its parliamentary promoter, the good friend and socialist deputy Ferran Pedret Santos, who will allow me to recognize his task for and for the historical memory in the Parliament of Catalonia, a task that prides the Socialist Party and the whole progressive family. It is never a bad time for a good parliamentary initiative to come here, but it is true - and other ladies and gentlemen before I have noted it - that this proposal of the Parliament of Catalonia arrives at a very specific moment in this House - a proposal for 2017 that arrives in 2020, and it is not the delay that is remarkable, but that we are at the door of the new law of democratic memory, at the door of this House. No one can escape that this is the natural framework of the debate that concerns this proposal, and that is where you must find your space. Our will in adopting this procedure today is that it be so, to enrich the debate on the new law on democratic memory, certainly one of the most important legislative work of this legislature. This is where we must design and study how to deploy mechanisms necessary for the reparation of the injustices of the Franco regime, as announced and reiterated by President Pedro Sánchez and Vice President Carmen Calvo. In this foreground of such a transcendental law for our country, issues as delicate as that of this proposal must be treated with the experience that we have treasured since 2007 with the Historical Memory Act. And it is precisely in this climate that some have begun to play strong the base of pseudorevisionism. For too many years history has been allowed to twist, punctuate it with false accounts. We have seen with pride this week hundreds of Spanish historians from many different institutions, ideologies and currents come out to deny the pseudo-revisionist barbarities of the far right in Madrid. That is the best example of the need to preserve and preserve memory. When we are told that closing the wounds is to stop talking about the Civil War, Oscar Wilde's sentence fills my head: 'If you never talk about one thing, it's like it didn't happen'. That meant Francoism for forty years, but now they go further: not satisfied with the silence of the losers, they intend to rewrite what happened. They forget, however, that we are no longer in the dictatorship and that a democracy is defended with memory, such as the memory of President Company, who have mentioned many speakers, and also of the socialists who were captured by the Gestapo and also shot by Francoism: with him, Julián Zugazagoitia and Francisco Cruz Salido. It also remembers for all of them. Keeping the memory is that. That this false argument to which we referred would be regrettable if the far right were to be raised, but even more so is to see it in which it should be the democratic right of this country, because it does not wish anything good for our immediate future as a democratic society. I cannot fail to express my stupefaction at the statements of: Franco was head of state for a long time, like Pelayo. No, look, Franco was the leader of a dictatorship that attacked Spain; leader, remember, by the grace of God or by that of the blood with which he covered our country, but he was never a head of state. [[Applauds]] In any case, what the current justice in Spain has shown is that Franco was a thief. The culmination of historical defachation is that one of the sides of the Civil War cannot be delegitimized in front of another. What kind of sandal is that? There's no possible symmetry. We are told: the Republic seized property just like Francoism. No, ladies and gentlemen, Spain - because that was the Republic, Spain - legally had to try by all means to defend the democratic state in the face of a military coup d'état. On the other hand, illegally, the displaced dissidents illegally seized resources to double that Spain, to hit it twice in its advance. Does anyone believe that a person seized by Francoism, a non-affection to the regime, could, at the end of the war, go to demand the Republican money that had been seized from him? What a joke that is, ladies and gentlemen! There's no symmetry, it's a fallacy. Those who swore to protect Spain rose up in arms against Spain, against the people and the State that had sworn to protect. That's the only truth. [[Applauds]] There is no symmetry; there is a coup d'état, military warlords tearing down their own country. [[The applause continues]] The Francoism killed methodically, his massacres were orchestrated by the dome that directed him. It was not fury, ladies and gentlemen; it was tactics, terror, method. That's the historical shame. There is no epic; there is no recovered nation; there is no mirror with the Reconquista; there is no national pride; there is only a few generals mutiny against their own state who led to forty years of shameful dictatorship, leaving misery, hunger and death everywhere. Those two fallacies that I have quoted literally and that burn to the far right, unfortunately, do not come from their ranks, but came from the mouth of Suárez Illana, from a Suárez who occupies the Bureau of this Congress, who left in that interview a headline: Largo Caballero was a murderer and here next door has a sculpture. This week the sculptures of Largo and Prieto appeared shamefully outraged. Some point out and others execute. We know the method, ladies and gentlemen, because we have suffered. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u48	Mr. Lamuà, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u49	I'm finishing up, President. It is true that today we are also talking about economic compensation, but if they talk to them, to those victims, they will know and understand that it is infinitely more moral and emotional than pecuniary what they seek: it is to compensate the memory of those who lost all sustenance overnight for their families; it is the uncomfortable voice of the victims of Francoism. Finally, I honestly believe that the majority of the House should have two clear evidence. The first, that democracy in Spain has its deepest foundation in the Second Republic - where else would it have it? - and the second evidence is that Francoism was a dictatorship and therefore opposed to any democratic force represented today in this Congress. Those are the common minimums, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u50	Mr. Lamuà, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u51	I'm done, president, in a second, with a quote: Don't imitate them! Don't imitate them! Overcome them in your moral conduct; overcome them in your generosity. I ask for hard breasts for combat, but sensitive hearts able to tremble in the face of human pain and to be a haven of mercy, tender feeling, without which it seems that the most essential of human greatness is lost. August 8, 1936. Indalecio Prito Tuero. Pride, honor and memory. [[Prolonged applause from the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group.- Mr Suárez Illana asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u52	Thank you, Mr. Lamuà. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Suárez Illana, on the basis of which rule of the Rules of Procedure do you ask me to speak?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u53	I ask for the floor for allusions, to answer the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u54	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u55	Thank you very much, President. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I think you are mistaken as an enemy in your words. I think you will surely find no one - as I do, but no more than I here - who has defended harmony, equality, forgiveness and respect among all more than I do. I think you've misused that date. If I have made reference to something it has always been to understanding, to seek agreement among all and to respect a pact that was sealed here with the vote of all political forces. I sincerely believe that you are mistaken and I hope that you will very soon have the opportunity to check this, when the agreement law is presented here in Parliament, which contains many of the points that you have commented on today, but with much more correct and with a much broader view, without harming anyone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Suárez. I thank again Mr Pujol, Mr Pedret and Mrs Albiach for their presence in this debate. The agenda item has been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u57	We continue with the item on the agenda concerning the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, on the coordination of prevention, fire and rescue services, within the framework of the National Civil Protection System. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Mayoral Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u58	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon to the firefighters' workers who are currently following this session. Finally, we're finally here, after a long tour. The first thing I want to make clear is that this proposal for a law is not a proposal for a United We can neither the Confederal Group nor even a proposal for a law from all the groups that can support it. It is the result of a long-standing struggle by the workers of the fire brigade of the entire State, who have sought the formula of resolving while the public administrations, unfortunately, allowed a process of depopulation and precariousness precisely of the service of prevention, fire-extinguishing and rescue. During these three years of work on this parliamentary initiative, I must say that I have not stopped learning every day from the professionals who are willing to give everything to take care of our lives, that of anyone, no matter who we are, whatever the autonomous community or whatever country. How much to learn from the working people of our country, from the public workers! In recent years, since the 2008 crisis, we have experienced the privatization rage in which it was said that the public was not efficient and that that was why it was necessary to privatize even the flag stick, that it was necessary to privatize everything, because that was supposed to be more efficient. The reality is that it was not only not more efficient, it was much more inefficient and it was also more expensive and worsened and precarious the working conditions of the people who provided this public service. There have been examples that have been developed in different places with proposals for privatization of fire parks that have then ended up in corruption summaries, in which public services were again used to try to plunder the State at the expense of the quality of public service and the working conditions of public workers. They and they have fought in every corner of the state against privatizations, no matter what their autonomous community was. They and they have explained to us the importance of the public service and the importance of coordinating firefighting services. They and they have explained to us what an interface fire is and the importance of coordinating all fire prevention and fire-extinguishing services. They have explained this precisely to us in the need to care for the whole population, thanks to the most powerful democratic tool that exists, which is public services. This initiative also has another precedent, a painful precedent, which was the death of a worker, Eloy, in a work accident in Oviedo. Unfortunately, the State - not the Governments, the State - by its resolutions did not protect this worker and his family after that work accident. Many times I have thought about what the word fraternity means, and in theory it is easy to define, that we are all brothers, but when I saw how these workers from all points of the state responded to this situation, I understood what it really meant. When the state was unable to protect a worker in a work accident, do they know what the firefighters' workers did? Subscribe to a fund to ensure that this family is not lacking in order to live, because their companions were willing to guarantee it by making contributions from firefighters and firefighters from all State parks. I want to thank you for that example. But they did not remain alone there, but said that it was necessary to change a law so that it would not be repeated, that it was necessary to have a law so that no one would ever again consider privatizing a fire park to deliver it to a company at the expense of public service and the working conditions of the people who play everything for us and for us. [[Applauds]] They started a long way; there have been hundreds of thousands of signatures, demonstrations, meetings with all parliamentary groups, called all doors, met with all groups and received very good words, but aside from words, they were necessary facts. We, from our modesty, first, promote a non-law proposal in 2017 and in 2018 work together with the different professional organizations this law proposal, which was first presented in 2018, then in 2019, and at last we are already in this plenary session. I want to point out - and I want to make a lot of emphasis on this - that it is not our law, that we make it ours. I would like to quote the organizations that have promoted this law, which have been the true creators of this rule. They are the Galega Inter-Union Confederation, the Confederation of Air Professional Unions, the Left Trade Union Corrient, the CSIF, the CSIC, the Federation of Independent Air Unions, the Andalusian Fire Union, the Union of Aeronautics, the Union of Firefighters of the Community of Madrid, the Independent Union of Aeronautics Collectives, the Association of Professional Firefighters of Extremadura, the Association of Professional Firefighters of the Local Police and Firefighters, the Union of Firefighters of Palencia, the Valencian Inter-union, the General Workers Union, the Workers Union, the Association of Professional Firefighters of Aragon, the Association of Professional Firefighters of Extremadura, the Association of Professional Firefighters of the Labour Community of Bombers with Disabilities, the Association of Professional Firefighters of Melilla, the Spanish Association of Fighting Firefighters of Firefighters, the Professional Association of Technical Association of Firefighters, the Ministry of Firefighters, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour. When you read, think that it is they and they who have promoted this bill, who spoke to you, who gave you the texts, who had the opportunity to tell you what things they liked and what they didn't, but that it was time to come to fruition, that, apart from words and good intentions, it would be concrete in legislation that would precisely allow a coordination mechanism to exist. Because you know? For a firefighter, for a firefighter, the important thing is to save lives, they don't care about administrative demarcations. It was necessary, and for the first time in this law, to provide for coordination between all public administrations, not only among the autonomous communities, but also local administrations and the General Administration of the State, in order to learn from the good practices that take place throughout the State, but also to improve the public service. Because do you know what happens when there is a fire department that has the possibility of intervening in less time than another fire department of a nearby administration, the supposedly competent administration? That the nails are left on the walls for being able to go out and care for our people and save lives, and this law precisely aims to be coordination between all the competent administrations. Not one of the competences of each of the administrations remains, but is essentially governed by the need for public service and the obligation of all the administrations to coordinate in the service of the social majority. That is the fundamental objective of this law: that each of the public workers who belong to the public fire-fighting and rescue services should have the assurance that they will be able to carry out their professional work with full protection; that they should have the opportunity to know that they will be able to intervene when they need to intervene; that they should know that it is necessary that in the critical facilities of this country, in particular at airports, the fire department is also authority; and that they should have the opportunity to fully exercise their powers from the public sector now that they are in the hands of the private sector, because it is necessary to face the future to care for those who care for us and reverse privatizations as an axis of building the fraternity of the peoples of Spain. Look, I know there's going to be a lot of talk about skills, and we want to talk because the firemen told us that we had to talk about coordination, about cooperation, about holding hands when people's lives are at the heart of the debate. Many people who have different national feelings have participated in this bill, who feel different things as their homelands, probably, but who have a commitment to public service and to the undeniable people. Look, what unites us in pushing this proposition is not that those who push it - Spanish, Galician, Basque, Canary, Andalusian, Valencian, those working people who push this proposition of law - do it because they feel they belong to the same nation, but basically because they feel they belong to the same class. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In announcing my vote in favour of taking into consideration the proposed law for the coordination of the services of prevention, fire and rescue within the framework of the National Civil Protection System, I would like to sincerely join in the excited memory for the Asturian firefighter Eloy Palacio, who died on 7 April 2016, who, being out of service, came to a call to participate in the extinction of a great fire produced in a building in the center of Oviedo. To the Palacio Valle family and the solidarity of Eloy's comrades from all over Spain, we owe their union, their tenacity, their effort and their guard to show society and their representatives in the institutions the need to have a legislative instrument that clarifies functions that right now have a great regulatory dispersion and legal voids. It is also appropriate to specify competences that have not been defined in the law of the National Civil Protection System, which improved the regulations around the public service that protects people and goods by ensuring an adequate response to the different types of emergencies and disasters, and also established measures, albeit insufficient, to ensure coordination, cohesion and effectiveness of public civil protection policies. Precisely the shortcomings in the legislation were the origin of the judicial dismissal of the claim for damages filed by the family of the deceased firefighter. Therefore, it should not be repeated in the future that the lack of concreteness or legal loopholes leave our firefighters unprotected and the rights of a public worker who has died or been injured in an act of service are not recognized, with greater reason if he has been performing a heroic and exemplary intervention. It is your honour, Mr Mayor, to acknowledge that many professionals have been involved in drafting this bill in order to identify and fill in the gaps in our legislation and to move forward on key issues in order to make the organization and operation of systems, prevention services, firefighting and rescue uniform throughout the national territory, and to facilitate the work and coordination mechanisms in the management of emergencies by the administrations. Madam President, a few final seconds to point out that the legislative advance in favour of 500 fire stations in which more than 21,000 professionals work would be short without the efforts of the administrations to complete the staffing table, as well as providing technical material and training. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u61	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u62	Thank you, President. We share much of the argument with which this bill has been defended, yet it has a very clear refocusing background, and so it has been denounced by many fire associations and unions, including Workers' Commissions in Catalonia, which have denounced that it has this refocusing character. Coming from a confederal force, you still understand less. This proposal for a law ignores a reality that is that of firefighters in our country, in Catalonia, and we are concerned that this is ignorance, but we are even more concerned that it is not an ignorance, but a deliberate disregard for a reality that has existed even with its own legislation and that could even be taken as a reference in many respects. That is why I believe today that the three independence forces will oppose this proposal for a law and we do not understand the position of En Comú Pomera, who will support it, when he is well aware of this situation in one of his areas of government, such as the Barcelona Assembly, which has its fire brigade and would also be affected by this law. In Catalonia there is a law already from 1994 and as regards coordination with different bodies, for example - which is an important issue of course - there are already agreements of collaboration with the firefighters of the Valencià Country, the Vall d'Aran, Andorra, Aragon and even the French State. In addition, the Catalan law has many legislative issues that establish an advanced system of coordination of the emergency system. The adoption of this law would threaten the integration of the diversity of firefighters, civil servants, but also voluntary firefighters, as well as labour personnel. In Catalonia there are eighty volunteer fire parks. In its proposal for a law, they are relegated to the additional provision. The territorial organization of the parks is also centralized with this proposal. Not only does it provide for an autonomous community, such as Catalonia, which has historically been doing so, to have its fire brigade. Port and airport firefighters are also centralized. The firefighters of the Port of Barcelona have a historical trajectory and are coordinated, have their agreement of collaboration with the firefighters of Barcelona and work and are satisfied; for years this agreement lasts. The training given at the Institut de Seguretat Pública de Catalunya is also ignored, that is, a historical trajectory of training of professionals in the fire department does not deserve a reference in this proposal of law. The law seeks - and I quote textually - coordination and homogenization throughout the state territory. We understand that there are realities in the Spanish State that need this reform and, therefore, there is the support of the entities, but that cannot be done without ignoring that there is another historical reality, consolidated, that works and that has struggled a lot to have its recognition in the laws of the Parliament of Catalonia as is the reality of the different firefighters' bodies in Catalonia, that of the Generalitat, that of the City of Barcelona, etc. A law, I insist, that is of the year 1994. They have suffered cuts, of course; they have suffered cuts and lack of investment from different governments, but nevertheless remain one of the most beloved public servants in our country. It is worth this end of the intervention as a tribute to all firefighters' bodies in Catalonia. They are one of the most beloved public servants for their delivery. The five firefighters who lost their lives in the fire at Horta de Sant Joan are still very present in Catalonia. They are one of the most beloved public professionals for their social commitment, as when in 2013 they announced their opposition to participate in any form of eviction, and they are also for their commitment to the Catalan people and their right to decide democratically our future, as they did on October 1, even physically getting involved in trying to prevent police aggression against the people we went to the polling stations that day. Images like this picture remain in the fire department's history. [[shows a photograph]] It is a pride for the fire corps and it is a pride for the Catalan people to have a fire corps like the one we have. These images as well as the scream of the firefighters will always be ours, deepen the rooting that the reality of the firefighters has with our country and no re-centralizing law should alter that connection. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u63	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u64	Thank you very much, President. The Parliamentary Group Podemos presents a proposal for a law in the sub-spect of the services of firefighters in the matter of Civil Protection, a proposal that self-qualifies of coordination of the said services but that the text extends to its full legal and regulatory regulation, reaching even its executive dimension, being thus one of the most centralist, Jacobinian and far from the reality that in time we have seen; question that the statement of reasons itself recognizes when it expresses the intention to harmonize the services of firefighters belonging to the autonomous communities and local authorities, in addition to putting them under the direction and coordination of a new general direction of the Ministry of the Interior and in accordance with the guidelines and orders of the Minister of the Interior, according to article 12. We are, therefore, faced with a new harmonisation law, we could call a fire department, which, as has already been pointed out, draws more attention from a parliamentary group which is called a confederal. The proposal starts by regretting, in the explanatory statement, that the fire services of any Administration do not have a common and homogeneous framework, which in their view contrasts with other emergency services such as the Civil Guard or the National Police. And a little later it considers it reasonable to establish harmonised criteria for all State fire services, invoking the principle of national unity, the right to life of article 15 and the principles of effectiveness and coordination of the actions of the administrations; principles which, in its view, justify the State interest in limiting the autonomous and local powers of civil protection and give rise to State, regulatory and executive competence over all fire services in relation to the status of their officials, the organization of personnel and the very service of firefighters, but not knowing that those principles and the rest of the contents of the Constitution are already taken into account by the latter when it provides in Title VIII for the distribution of powers of the so-called territorial organization and therefore cannot be invoked outside Title VIII. From another approach to the issue, the proposition is based on a factual assumption that we believe to be non-existent, namely the poor provision of the fire service by the various public administrations, and this is due to the assertion in principle that it is not a uniform and homogeneous service with a single framework, such as the Civil Guard and the National Police, which, according to the proposal, in fact affects the very operation of the service and the quality of the public service; although at no time are we told where the different fire services have been deficient. In his view, this poor situation is to be alleviated by the establishment of a single and uniform framework covering all fire services: training; access to the profession; promotion, scales, categories and controls; the content of fire functions; the size of the templates; the minimum staff of each intervention team and the number of services involved per park; the uniform of all Spanish firefighters; the names and labelling of buildings and vehicles; the location of parks and their types; their construction characteristics, type of dependencies and equipment; their organization and functions; the procedures for action, operational tactics, timetables, response times, and a length of time, and so on, which also includes, as we have already told you, the creation of a general fire department that will not only regulate the foregoing and inspect and supervise all services to verify their implementation, but also assigns to it, in article 15, represent and monitor the interests of the various services. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the latter, I do not know whether to define this Directorate-General of the Ministry of the Interior as the union link of firefighters to the Administration on which they depend or to all this as an independent republic of fire services headed by the Ministry of the Interior, since firefighters' services, apart from the administrations to which they belong, and of the same unions, are represented before the General Administration of the State through a State commission for the coordination of fire services, as required by Article 20(b). Ladies and gentlemen, and in particular the ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, not only are fire services set up in the various public administrations, whatever colour they are, functioning properly and with great citizen support, but they also violate the distribution of civil protection competences and those of officials who serve them in the autonomous communities and local authorities both in their statutory and organisational development. Thus, the autonomous competence in the field of Civil Protection, which is also projected on local services of this nature, certainly finds limits, according to the Constitutional Court, in the public security policy that the State constitutionally reserves, but always as soon as this public security presents a condition of national dimension, it is said, either by territorial scope of the emergency event, or by its same dimensions, or for the same design of a National Civil Protection System that makes possible an effective direction by the Government of emergencies of national interest and that integrates efforts. But of course, these limits of autonomous competence in favour of public security policy in the hands of the State when it is affected by its national dimension do not justify the State regulating the fire services of all public administrations as if it were a State service and its officials, firefighters, a national body, taking advantage of and taking advantage of the entire statutory aspect of the organisation of these officials and of the fire service itself, turning into an empty shell the autonomous powers in the field of civil protection and also in the field of public security in the case of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, Navarre and Catalonia and also unfairly affecting the local powers of prevention and extinction of fires and rescue within the framework of the autonomous rules. I'm finishing up, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, they propose a remedy that is unconstitutional for not knowing the distribution of competences in this matter and, moreover, with a purported law of harmonization and in the face of a non-existent problem badly speaking of the services of firefighters provided by the different public administrations, and I would ask you to look at how praiseworthy the state legislator speaks of them through the not so far Law 17/2015, that of the National Civil Protection System, when it expresses the substantial progress that has been made in the creation of own civil protection services by the autonomous communities in the management of emergencies, including those of coordination, and in the effective qualification of municipal civil protection services, including those of firefighters. Of course, we will not support this bill. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u65	Thank you, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cambronero Piqueras has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are debating today the consideration of the proposal for a United Nations law We can regulate the coordination of prevention, fire-extinguishing and rescue services within the framework of the National Civil Protection System. This initiative, as the proponent group has said, is an old-fashioned demand of the collective; a collective that lacks a statutory framework of rights and obligations and that continues to depend on the creativity of those who hold the Government in the sphere of its action, which is almost always municipal, provincial or autonomous. It is therefore necessary, I would say, that it is essential to regulate this public service in order to guarantee both the rights and obligations of workers in this field and the rights of citizens with regard to fire prevention and extinguishment services. The collective has been demanding it for decades, there is even news from the mid-eighties that already demanded this law of coordination; almost forty years, ladies and gentlemen. It's justice. The position of my group and my own cannot be other than the affirmative vote to take account of this initiative, as we consider it of paramount importance and covers historical legal gaps. In fact, last July we registered an initiative to this effect in the Committee on the Interior for the adoption of a basic state regulation that regulates and harmonizes the characteristics of the various services, as well as for the recognition and regulation of the profession of firefighter. One thing is clear: there is a need to professionalize and regularize fire services at the state level. There is a disparity in the regulation of their functions, their basic equipment, their internal organization and all aspects of their very important work. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, that we are talking about people who are dedicated to saving lives every day. Today, these services are mainly provided by municipalities and by municipalities - for some small municipalities - but can also be provided by provinces, autonomous communities, even by some consortia. This gives a clear idea of heterogeneity and regulatory chaos, which creates inequality between firefighters and, above all, insecurity for users. Examples of this inequality among these professionals are many. For example, it depends on where you serve, right now a firefighter can be considered an agent of the authority or not; he can be a worker with a contract of employment or be an official. It should not be forgotten, moreover, that some municipalities have outsourced this service through contracts or volunteers. Ladies and gentlemen, this has to end. Look at the extent to which the legal chaos in their work reigns that they themselves, with whom we have spoken for a long time, tell us ridiculous and, in many cases, dangerous situations. I'll give you an example of a real case. There is a traffic accident in the vicinity of a fire park, even firefighters in that park can go on foot to release a woman trapped in that vehicle, but it turns out that it occurs in another municipal term and therefore the competition is from another fire park, with them having the legal obligation to wait for the competent firefighters to arrive. It's an unnecessary and ridiculous risk to the life of the victim herself. The absence of technical criteria for the territorial allocation of park sites leads to absurdity and, perhaps one day, tragic consequence of the fact that firefighters who are closest to the disaster are prevented from acting, as I have just said. It's ridiculous and dangerous. That is why this law works very well. In Citizens we were born to defend equality between Spaniards, so we will always be in favour of measures that favor this equality, and not only for the professional firefighters, but also for the citizens who receive these services, who must be of quality, regardless of where they live. In other words, it is not only a just demand of the collective, which is, but also the absence of a common basic regulation has terrible consequences for the taxpayer, as the firefighters themselves say. This law will consider the agents of authority - we have already mentioned - in the exercise of their functions, something with which we are radically in agreement and for which we too have been fighting for other collectives, such as prison officials, who do not yet have this legal rule that recognizes them such a character. That is why I also urge your parliamentary group, which is in the Government, to work precisely in that direction with prison officials as well. We agree on most of the issues raised by this initiative and believe that particular importance must be attached, among other issues, first of all, to achieving the full implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Occupational Risks, in addition to a logical catalogue of collective occupational diseases, in line with the particularities of service they provide. Second, to establish a staff regime and minimum conditions for the provision of service, as well as minimum financial allocations for the performance of their duties. Third, to regulate access to the professional career and the incorporation of women through the general direction of firefighters, under the Undersecretary of the Interior. Fourth, to establish a harmonised minimum training framework for the whole State, equipped with the necessary means to have optimal security conditions and material means. In short, to establish a regulatory framework that is common to the State as a whole, so as to establish a basic law to ensure that the necessary criteria for safety, effectiveness and efficiency in service are met. As the firefighters themselves say, today firefighters' bodies continue to depend on individual, circumstantial, disparate and often arbitrary decisions of the Administration. They themselves state that the lack of a coordination framework law makes them unable to carry out their activities with all the guarantees and effectiveness with which they could do so. On the other hand, it is very curious to see how the opposition, to see how the independenceists oppose a law that would improve even the rights and service of their own fire parks, is curious. I see the square roots they make to try to justify it and the truth is they're going to have to make it difficult to tell their own fire parks that they're going to oppose a rule that what they do is improve their service. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we will support the consideration of this proposal for a law, without prejudice to the fact that, in its proceedings, we will make such modifications as we consider necessary to dignify the profession of firefighter and that it will materialize in a better service for the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Cambronero. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u68	Thank you, Madam President. We can share the need to establish a regulation of the profession of specific firefighter to define its functions, powers and prerogatives. Above all, we are clear that we must bet that the prevention, fire-extinguishing and rescue services are a basic public service, provided by the public administration and with a public service criterion. But this law also introduces principles that we do not share, because if local entities have the competence and the obligation to provide the service, and if the autonomous communities have the function of coordination in general within their territorial scope and direct jurisdiction over forest fires, why centralization in a matter in which the competences are not and should not be of the State? Why this need for uniformity and literal uniformity? Why create unnecessary state-level structures to ensure that everything is the same everywhere? For example, it says in the proposed law that coordination is defended as the fixing of the means for its homogenization. A general direction of firefighters is created, which will have, among other functions, the regulation of the system of homogenization and approval of uniformity and corporate image; and also a state coordinating commission to ensure that the uniqueness is correctly applied, and it is intended to fix the territorial structure and reorganization of the parks from Madrid. We don't agree. We do want to recognize the work and mobilization by the collectives that promote this proposal of law, which in many cases have managed to stop and even reverse - as happened in Galicia, thanks to the comrades of the IGC - privatization processes, of which we are happy and will always support, because, as I said, we consider it essential that the service be maintained as a public. I'm done. In any case, the BNG is committed to a regulation that develops Galicia's own competences by a law on the coordination of emergencies in Galician territory, thus adapting to its own needs and characteristics. Therefore, we will not support the consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u69	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u70	Thank you, President. From More Country-Equo, of course, we share the fund and also the objective, if it is that the fund and the objective that are developed in the law have mainly to do with the professional career improvements, with the professional regulation, with the status of firefighters, with the strengthening of the public service and with the demands that have been developed over time. In our view, there is no need for a part where even the operational executive dimension is reached in the regulation that is proposed to us today; it is not necessary to draw an idea and an administrative deployment of a deeply centralized structure that has nothing to do with the real situation, with the competences or with the territorial situation. However, we, of course, do want to work on this law to give a clear opportunity to the participation, the work of the groups, the work of the fire brigades and the struggle they have developed over time. I think there is no unanimity, so, although there is very important support, we, as I say, are not going to oppose the consideration. Let us commit ourselves to a clear, participatory work in order to achieve the highest possible level of consensus; we understand that it is absolutely important to improve dialogue and participation, and we believe that it has some elements that are not only not necessary but would contribute little to the real work of the law that we are presented today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u72	Thank you, President. To the Member of Citizens: Inform yourself a little bit and leave the marketing for another day. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] Mr Mayor, the system in Catalonia is orderly, organized and has everyone, also and above all volunteers, who do not even appear in the law that you present to us today. In Catalonia - it has already been commented - we have Law 5/1994. Not only are we ordered and organized, but we are updated, and that is why we are working on the nova llei d'emergènciaes de Catalunya, a law that will not be introduced until there is a majority consensus with all agents in Catalonia. In Catalonia what we need is not a false law of coordination. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] What we need basically is a proper statute and stop depending on this irresponsibility and this bad management because in good management and in responsibility we take forty years of advantage. Let me tell you that the most irresponsible for us today are the Catalan Members of the PSC Group and the Commons, who are going to vote yes to this law, who are going to vote yes to destroy the work that has cost us so many years to build and which also works. [[Showing a paper]] I think they're going to have to explain a lot to the people of Catalonia. We want - it is very easy to understand - to manage the money that we produce and that you take every year to, for example, bunker the king when he comes to Catalonia, to make AVE without passengers, airports without planes, to send us to the patriotic police to beat us or to the patriotic judges to imprison or disable us for defending fundamental rights and to think. Junts per Catalunya is not going to vote in favour of putting the job that Catalonia has done at risk. In Catalonia we have a unique emergency system throughout the Spanish State; in fact, it is an international reference, despite the difficulty of governing under the incompetence of a State that does not comply with, pay or respect. And you had it very easy, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos: speaking. We were here, we had proposals, and when we asked for explanations the answer was: we thought..., we thought... We are in the Congress of Deputies and they have forgotten to do the most important thing, which is political. As I said, there are at least two proposals that would solve everyone's problems, and yes, I say all because we do understand that Spanish firefighters should be organized, they need you to do the work and duties that you have not done, but not at the cost of dismantling the cosso d'emergència de Catalunya. The first is that they include an additional provision specifying that the territories which have their own legislation - that is, Catalonia - are exempt from the application of this state law; and the second, which is common sense, is that if their real objective was to coordinate - there is no need for a law for this - they make a regulation, but I think we all know perfectly well that this is not a law to coordinate, it is a law to re-centralize. I am warning you that we will not abide by anything that would imply any step backwards in the progress of the different emergence cosos of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u73	Mrs. Nogueras, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u74	I'm done. The Catalonian bombers, the different emergencies of Catalonia don't touch them. Our vote is going to be no. Freed political prisoners exiled and visca Catalunya free. Thank you. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u76	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. I recognize, gentlemen of Podemos, that they never cease to surprise me. They have explained to us today that they bring us this law because the associations, because in reality there is a civil society, the workers... Well, well, well, we are very much in favour of having this fluid conversation with the outside world and with our citizens, but, man, this was also carried in the investiture pact and, therefore, the normal thing would be to take it to the government, to make a bill and come here with all the memories, with all the reports, with all the opinions of the lawyers because perhaps they would have told you that in the Statute of Catalonia, Article 132 provides for exclusive jurisdiction over services for prevention, firefighting and rescue, and we would have saved ourselves a lot of work, a lot of discussions and a lot of phalam that is useless. I say this because they had no obligation to know the areas of competence, but you did. You also know that, as you have already indicated, you can talk to the other groups in Congress to see what we think because, let's see, the tactical unity that you have achieved between independence will be requested in Barcelona at this stage. I suppose you know that the Local Regime Bases Act, which confers jurisdiction, provides in its final provision that the specific status of fire brigades can be made, but with a range of regulations, and there is one of the solutions that pointed to you a moment ago. Let's do it as a regulation, not as a rule of law. We are therefore going to vote against this proposal, against this entry, for two reasons. The first, because we do not consider it necessary to wear this legal form and, the second, because, they have said it to them by active and passive - then I do not want to stop referring to the classes and to the workers of the fire brigades - is a competitive invasion in every rule. The general reasoning in the background is: many administrations have given up their functions in this matter, so there is a lot of dispersion, they have not just coordinated, well, it is chaos. I mean, you in the state have chaos and the recipe is standardization, re-centralization, and you've stopped saying re-spanning, it's because Wert is no longer there. Sure, always the same formula and, you know what? That our model has some aspects that disappear here and that amount to its total extinction. Wow, a 155 like that, and that, yeah, very quiet. What do we do with the volunteers? You propose to operate them, and that for us is completely unabated economically and at the model level, at the management level. They have a long tradition of volunteer firefighters. They ask us that they will decide where we should have the parks, how they will wear the uniforms - hence it must be the thing of the standardization - what schedules they will do, what the logo of the trucks should put, and they will do so with the creation of a general direction and a state commission of coordination of the Space; more meetings, more bureaucracy, more hierarchy. So you solve the problems of your operating structures when they don't work? What do you want me to say, they've already said it, but go to the bottom the idea was commented on. The only way, unless everything is changed a lot, will be that once taken into consideration, - because you will take it into consideration, because the right that falls from the parliamentary arc of the ultra that it is and the right of the middle, everyone will give you their support and that should also make you think that you are federalist forces that propose a law that re-centralizes, harmonizes and Spanishizes all firefighters' bodies and gives them their support -, do not say that we are the ones who are wrong. An element for reflection. Three notes because I don't have much left. First point, they say they've talked to everyone. Well, the firefighters I've talked to, volunteers, professionals and trade unions in Catalonia, they're all against it, but they recognize that the state is a disaster and that, therefore, legislation for the rest of the state, yes, because they haven't solved those problems. This is one. The second, what are you going to do with the Barcelona Fire Department? There are a few ex-cons like me here. Do you really believe that the Barcelona Fire Department, which has existed since 1835, deserves to be brought into this legislation now? They very ardently say no. Then we talked about it, because it's one of the things we should have started doing. This is one thing, but if the mayor knows it, if the mayor agrees and if the groups that are carrying politics in the city hall have it clear, maybe Colau agrees, but I don't know, because I haven't spoken to her either. The second observation is that you tend to face the notions of class and the notions of public service and non-privatization, with which we agree, with a territorial framework, and that is completely false. The existence of a State law will not prevent privatization. In any case, it will facilitate the privatization of what they cannot now touch, which are those of the autonomous communities. Do you know what's going on? That you are much closer to having a right-wing raison d'être in the government that privatizes it all that we, therefore, also do in defense of public service, because the consideration of public service for us is what it is. [[Rumors]] I see there are some problems. In any case, they put again on the table that to defend the very few things that work well in our country, to create new things and to try to make a policy of fire prevention and extinction - here I remind you of the principle of subsidiarity -, you know that the bodies that are rooted in the territory are... Yes, but if you put subsidiarity to me with centralization, ordination, homogenization and standardization - forgiveness, they are words that are in your text, I am not inventing them -, it turns out that everything remains on wet paper, because in the end, if this law does not end up applying you, but they, the Fire Department that protected us - they said before - on October 1 is going to end up being a body like the Civil Guard or like the National Police and, thank you, we have already received enough blows. [[Rumors]] [[pointing to the deputies of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] I end up saying the same thing my partner said: the bombers will always be ours. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Vallugera. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. They're lucky those of the motorized group that today I'm talking about firefighters, because if I was talking about criminals, beatings and murderers I was going to remind them of the crimes -8500 shootings - of Lluis Companies, the 1934 coup d'état of Largo Caballero and the murder of opposition leader Calvo Sotelo, but today I'm talking about firefighters, they're lucky. [[Applauds]] In the different visits to firefighter parks, in meetings with different firefighter corps, we have always seen a common denominator: they are men and women of vocation, professionally and courageously, but also with a common claim, and it is the recognition of their status at the national level as a national firefighter corps, body and claim that, by the way, has already made clear the Constitutional Court that it had perfect constitutional connection, as exclusive competence of the State in article 149.29, being part of public security, and therefore competence of the State. He added: under the principles for public administrations of hierarchy, coordination and effectiveness. And so was the Basic Law of the Local Regime of 1985, in particular in the third final provision, where it established the mandate for the approval of the statute of the Spanish fire brigades, What have the Socialist Party and the People's Party done for thirty-five years? Sleeping the nap, as in so many other matters. Because here we are talking about a public service, an essential service, as essential and as public, as that which the National Police, the Civil Guard or our dear prison officials can develop and, therefore, with equal rights and obligations, with equality in denomination, in remuneration, in commands, in scales, recognizing them the principle of agents of authority, with equality in the media, in equipment and in templates. In short, we are talking about a national corps of firefighters, which means at the service of all Spaniards, regardless of where they live, and that is the great difference that we underline. A national corps of firefighters would serve as equal service providers, equal preparation and equal means for all Spaniards, living in Ceuta, the Canary Islands, Catalonia, Galicia, Madrid or anywhere in the national territory. [[Applauds]] Because, look, when we face major emergencies, major fires, floods, health emergencies, catastrophes, major aviation accidents, ships or railways, the answer cannot be the uncoordination between autonomous communities, as we have unfortunately seen for years. They burned the mountains and it turns out that the troops of another community could not act, because they were not allowed by the turn community. We have seen it in the decoordination against the pandemic, each autonomous community establishing the criteria that have come to its liking. That is the difference between a strong State and a weak and fragmented State, because in the end, when we talk about emergencies, we are talking about the risk of life, physical integrity, personal heritage, public heritage, ecological heritage, health, in the end, the most important values protected by our Constitution are at risk. That is why we need harmonization, a unification of the regulations for all firefighters in Spain, and the same rule in the same statute. They are and must be the firefighters of Spain, they must be the firefighters of all the Spaniards, and we must - of course - carry out a homogenization in the service, so that all provide the same type of services, with equal material and - very important - with equal training, through a national academy of firefighters or emergency services, from which the best troops for all Spain can be nourished. I would not like to end without referring to an issue raised by the spokesman for Podemos. He has said that the firefighters do not want a statute for their status as a member of the same nation and has added, in a boast of supine ignorance, that the Spanish firefighters, the Galician firefighters, the Basque firefighters, the extremist firefighters - he has failed to say those of La Alpujarra - are not part of the same nation, but of the same class. Look, you did have to be part of the same class, of the repeaters class, who repeated the subjects of History, Geography and Constitutional Law. What barbarity, my God! What a barbarity! [[Applauds]] From this rostrum, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, thanks to each and every firefighter. We know that some are having a really bad time, understood by the imposition of secessionist totalitarianism in Catalonia, where we have seen the disgust of using fire trucks by some to give a coup d'état and support a secession in Spain. What shame and discredit for the rest of the firefighters, that the only thing they do every day, nothing more and nothing less, is go out to fulfill their duty without being marked by ideologies of hatred, by separatist ideologies. Thanks to the firefighters, especially for the magnificent work they've done on the COVID. And of course, I promise you, another day we'll talk about murderers, totalitarians and coups. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ortega. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr Tirado Ochoa has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fire services that exist in Spain are currently characterized by their disparity, diversity and heterogeneity in many basic aspects. In each fire department different criteria have been followed in aspects that are key to its functioning such as its name, the dimensioning of its templates, uniformity, equipment, geographical distribution, scales, categories, access, promotion, wages and a long number of important issues that should have a state regulation, and I say this clearly: a state regulation for an effective, efficient and homogeneous provision in all the territories of Spain, because fire does not understand borders, because fire is something very dangerous with what is not to be played with. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be reasonable to establish regulatory criteria to harmonize the different existing fire services and also to recognise and regulate the profession of firefighter at national level. This is also the intention of the People's Parliamentary Group to regulate the profession of firefighter at the national level by providing a regulatory framework for coordination, without prejudice to autonomous legislative powers; to establish a state regulatory framework that regulates this profession in order to provide a coordinated response with criteria that must be sought for effectiveness and operationality, establishing uniform quality standards in which the principles of proximity, gratuitousness and quality of service prevail. This legislative proposal has its origin not in the Podemos Group, but in the firefighters themselves, through a state platform and trade union organizations with which we have spoken and to which we want to thank - because they are listening - their work and their effort. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important - I want to do this here - to appreciate the contradictions of the United Group We can in terms of state competences and their intention, as they also say, to homogenise fire services throughout Spain, which clashes with their alliances with the enemies of Spain and with those who want to break Spain. [[Applauds]] If there is one thing that has made me proud is that I am going to vote against what the nationalists claim and, therefore, we will take this proposal into consideration because it is just what the independenceists and the enemies of Spain oppose. Mr. Spokesman of Podemos, Mr. Mayoral, you speak in the explanatory statement of article 2 of the Spanish Constitution and I want to remind you - listen carefully - what you say: 'The Constitution is based on the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards, and recognizes and guarantees the right to autonomy of the nationalities and regions that integrate it and solidarity among them all.' Yes, gentlemen of Podemos, a common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards, which the men and women of the People's Party will continue to defend, no matter how much the social-communist government that Mr Pedro Sánchez presides wants to end with something that has been fundamental: the unity of Spain, the nation, from my point of view, the best of the world, the most traditional, more than five hundred years that we are living in peace, freedom and harmony. [[applause]] Those contradictions are in which you fall, because you say one thing and do the opposite. [[Mr. Majoral Perales shows a press clipping that reads: The Trama Enredadera tried to rig up leaflets of the Lion fire park system]] I was talking about classes, yes, yes, but you say you live in simplicity and austerity and then you like to be in the luxury capplons, which is where the Lords of Podemos live. [[Mr. Mayor Perales: But what are you saying?]] We're saying...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u81	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u82	Respect who is speaking.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u83	Mr. Mayoral, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you that we are going to vote in favour of this bill; we are going to vote in favour of taking account of this bill, no matter how much it hurts you, because we are here at the service of the Spanish and at the service of the firemen. For those more than 21,000 men and women who are dedicated to saving lives, we are going to hold our shoulders, to seek solutions, not as in the previous debate where we have been talking about the past, when what we need to talk about is the future and the solutions. What we need to talk about is what the Spanish need to have a better future and not to talk about, as do the men of Podemos and also those of the Socialist Party, of the past, what they face with each other to put it as a smokescreen not to talk about the economic and health crisis, and to hide as they hide more than 50,000 Spaniards killed by the COVID, which you do not want to talk about. That is why I want to tell you today that we are going to continue to reflect and in your consideration and then in your presentation we are going to talk about issues that we believe are fundamental. You talk about creating new management agencies. I say to you that perhaps there is no need to create a new general leadership of firefighters, because we are before the most expensive and inefficient government of democracy; what should be done best is to integrate it into some already existing leadership such as the Directorate-General for Civil Protection and Emergencies itself. We are also willing to talk about what competences we give to the municipalities and the parliaments, which the People's Party defends as close administrations that spill over the territory, that spill over the rural world, because we have to recognize that service that is being provided in the small municipalities. I'm finishing up, Madam President. Look, we are willing to work on the paper for the best text and in a consensual way, but it is very difficult because we want the dignity of the firefighter, as we want that of the Civil Guard itself, that of the Police itself and - why not say it? - also of the Army. But it is very complicated, with a president like Mr. Pedro Sánchez saying - here are the statements and I want everyone to see them - that the Ministry of Defence is left. That is the president who has Spain, a gentleman who said in a national newspaper: there is still the Ministry of Defence. [[Showing a press clipping]] What's left is an incompetent government like Pedro Sánchez's.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u85	Mr. Tirado, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u86	I'll finish quickly. What is needed is a willingness to work together to have the best law that guarantees the professionalism and dignity of firefighters. Let me recall, and with this I conclude, that phrase of Mother Teresa of Calcutta who said: the one who does not live to serve does not serve to live. Firefighters are exemplary public servants to whom the People's Parliamentary Group will defend, support and assist. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u87	Thank you, Mr. Tirado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Guille. Mr José Vélez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This is my first time in this rostrum and I want my first words to express my gratitude to the Socialist Group for the confidence I have in me to address this House. Before we start with the issue before us, I would like to focus on what really matters to the citizens, and that is that we are able to build laws for their improvement, the improvement of their lives and their day-to-day lives and not to mess with the debate with topics like newspaper ads of what time, when we could also talk about corruption, but it is not the case. Let's talk about firefighters and let's talk about Civil Protection. In a modern and advanced society, we have the need and the obligation to provide citizens with the necessary tools to safeguard them, guarantee the right to life and physical integrity as the first and most important of fundamental rights. This, together with the principles of state unity and territorial solidarity and the minimum and essential requirements for the effectiveness and coordination of public administrations, are reflected in our Constitution. The response in our country is based on Civil Protection and the Constitutional Court has established that the State's powers in the field of Civil Protection are included in the title of Public Security. He has already been appointed by a speaker who has preceded me by article 149.29, not only to respond to emergencies in the national interest by mobilizing resources at his disposal, but also to seek and safeguard the coordination of the various services by integrating into a minimum national design and model, which is the exclusive competence of the State, but in which the autonomous communities and local entities can assume competence. The Constitutional Court, in its Judgment 66/1995, also recognizes the service of firefighters as an essential public service - underlining public service - widely recognized in the autonomous legal system. At present, and in our country, the service is being provided by public officials dependent on different local administrations or the autonomous communities. Its tasks are necessary and essential for the prevention and reduction of fire risk and, where appropriate, for the extinction and for the rescue and rescue of persons and goods in the event of accidents and emergency situations. They collaborate in the investigation and make reports of the victims in which their participation is necessary. There are currently more than 130 civilian professional firefighter services in our territory - I emphasize - distributed in more than 500 parks and facilities, which have been set up under different legal formulas. Law 17/2015, in its article 17, details emergency intervention and assistance services, and recognizes, inter alia, the Speis - that is, firefighters - as a public service integrated into the National Civil Protection System. Unlike other services involved in emergency situations, such as the State Security Forces or the health services, there are no regulations establishing the legislative framework governing the profession of firefighter and providing the services of firefighters with legal and statutory personality at the state level and regulating their official designation and, therefore, their fire-extinguishing powers. In another respect, Law 7/1965, which regulates the Local Regime Bases Act, provides that municipalities with more than 20,000 inhabitants have competence, not only the competence but also the obligation to provide these services, namely the provincial legislature, the lobby or the island council, which must assume this benefit in those municipalities which do not exceed this census and which in turn do not have fire service. In addition - and it has already been mentioned earlier by other speakers - its third final provision provides that fire brigades shall be regulated by a specific statute approved by the Government, an issue that has never been developed, and we therefore consider this proposal to be timely. I am not going to make much history, but the fire service has been recognized since the 16th century, so it is a service considered of the utmost utility by the citizenry and very well valued. From the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party we have always supported and valued the work of the firefighters, I also take this opportunity to highlight their work and we are only in their sphere of action but that which they have lent and continue to provide during the development of the pandemic that plagues us. On my behalf and on behalf of my group, I would like to greet the representatives of the group of firefighters who are accompanying us today and all those who follow us through the different media. Over the past few years, we have been working from the Socialist Group and the party to find a way to regulate the profession of firefighter in our country, and we have held frequent meetings with the union representation of the collective. We accompanied the Unitary Coordinator of Professional Firefighters when she came to this Congress to register 100,000 signatures requesting a coordination law in September 2019. As a result of this commitment to the demands of firefighters and citizens, we have gathered our proposals in the 370 measures presented by our President Pedro Sánchez as an open proposal for a common progressive programme. The commitment of our Government and this parliamentary group to workers' representatives and to our society is therefore firm and decisive, and has been reflected both in the electoral proposals and in the progressive coalition government programme. We believe that the public service of fire prevention and fire-extinguishing services is essential - and I stress it again - and that it also needs to be considered as agents of authority, as some previous parliamentarian has said, as well as respecting the competition framework. Therefore, we understand that your classification should start from the C-1 functional group. I'm finishing up, Madam President. On the other hand, it is also necessary to ensure the effectiveness of a common framework, without prejudice to autonomous parliamentary development. The risks are increasing and every day they are more complex due to effects such as climate change, and I would dare say at this point that I would no longer deny it even M. Rajoy's cousin. Civil protection mechanisms based on solidarity and collaboration between Member States have been put in place since the European Union and we must make progress on those criteria. We will therefore support the consideration of this bill. Workers know that they must correct a number of issues, seek consensus and respect the constitutional framework of the various administrations. Now you'll start a job in this House...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u89	Mr. Joseph, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u90	I'm done with this sentence. ... that will allow us to reach consensus and frame it in constitutional respect. We are now beginning a work in this House that allows us, from the line of consensus, to reach a good agreement and a good law, a work to which we are all the groups on the spot and the socialists ready to achieve it. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. José. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u92	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, concerning the worrying situation of the basic industry and its jobs as a result of the prolonged delay of the Government and the adoption of the Statute of the electric intensive consumer. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Again during this first year of the XIV Legislature I demand from the rostrum the attention of Congress on the very alarming and worrying situation of our industry in order to orient the government politically and try to stop the gradual labor sangria and the persistent destruction of a job market that was once stable and qualified, but which is now being lost to desperation of thousands of families and serious and irreversible damage to the economy of large areas of population. I have tabled a non-legislative proposal with three points that reoccur in the need for the Government to provide solutions to the growing asphyxiation of the electro-intensive sector that almost two years after being committed to its approval continues without having the status that allows for energy costs that facilitate competitiveness and a production that is not highly penalized by the high price of electricity paid in Spain, one of the European countries where the domestic receipt and that of businesses, small, medium and large enterprises is higher, that is, much more expensive. Overtaken the period for our industry to have the status of the electric intensive consumer, it is a good thing that we are faced with another glaring breach of the government of Pedro Sánchez and his ministers of ecological transition and of industry, the Ribera and Maroto, more attentive to one another by catamarans, primates and calderones, and for patching up problems the other, letting themselves be dragged away by decisions and indecisions of others, rather than pushing for solutions so that the Spanish industry does not stay behind, while moving towards the objective of achieving a net balance of zero carbon emissions in 2050, in accordance with the Paris Agreements in the fight against climate change. Since the Ministry does not acknowledge receipt, it is the opposition that has to echo what is being done in other European countries like Spain, where they are already implementing measures in the energy field that support this industry, in the case of Germany, France and Belgium, while here the Government has only limited itself to giving up the energy sovereignty derived from coal farms, our only indigenous fossil fuel and to shut down power generation power plants with no work alternatives for its workers, without options for the activation of the basins and territories where they were settled, which are condemned to desertification and, ultimately, substantially diminishing the options for the future that affect the insecurity in electricity supply and, moreover, the costs of industrial production that will result in closures, destruction of direct employment and also that of the auxiliary companies that are seized and condemned to disappearance. In fact, 35 % of the steel workers in Asturias are at home today and the prospects are not good at all. As far as this is concerned, unless industrial production is concerned, maritime, land and rail transport are being very affected and their expectations are very bad. In this sense, some official data from the latest general industrial production index published last Wednesday by the National Institute of Statistics are discouraging, with very significant year-on-year falls, in the case of Asturias with at least 19%. I repeat and precise the data: annual drop of at least 18.9%. In the face of this industrial landscape, the Government is asking for patience as staffing adjustments are taking place and problems are being exacerbated by restrictions stemming from the pandemic, which, as in all sectors of the Spanish economy, have severely affected production capacity and put sustainability and employment plans at risk. In support of the industry, the Government of Sánchez is neither expected nor changed in view of what has just happened in Poland with the closure of Arcelor's plants in Krakow or the aluminium terminal maneuvers in Asturias and Galicia, and everything points out that it will ignore the claims that autonomous communities, trade unions and employers' organizations, associations of major energy consumers and political parties have formulated to the electro-intensive status project in defense of the industry that is affected by the high electricity bill. And, as I pointed out earlier, the PSOE-United government coalition We can also not apply in imitation of what other countries do, which have already used regulations and regulations to promote the competitiveness of their industry by reducing energy costs, among other measures. Ladies and gentlemen, since the decisions and indecisions of this government of forums of Murphy's law are very harmful to our industry, I have presented, together with Mrs Tristana Moraleja of the People's Group, a self-amendment which extends with two more points the original content of my initiative, since last week the aid allocated by the Ministry of Industry was known to compensate for the so-called indirect costs of carbon dioxide CO2 emissions. The raquitic nature of the aid, to say the least, is a capitalized warp for the large energy-intensive industry and another government failure, which is in addition to the black serial with which a sector is being targeted for production losses and staff cuts, as a consequence of its loss of competitiveness. Hence, in the face of advertising promises to create hundreds of thousands of jobs, he called for the Government to give priority to a policy that would avoid the destruction of jobs. The new economic-administrative chapter against industry reveals that government aid has barely exceeded a quarter of the European Union's ceiling of resources, which is in the order of EUR 241 million, according to the Ministry's own calculations, which indicates that its available budget is currently EUR 61 million, i.e. 25.3 % of the maximum aid that could be granted in accordance with the Community guidelines. I make a significant and revealing comparison: by 2020, aid is only one third of what was paid in 2019 to compensate the electro-intensive industry for a portion of the cost of the impact of carbon dioxide emission allowances on electricity or gas prices. In short, we are faced with another cause of concern for the future of our steel and steel industry and for the jobs it generates, which is why I ask the plenary of Congress to vote in favour of the measures contained in this non-legislative proposal. I would like to thank the amendments for their interest in carrying out an initiative to support our industry, but it is a pity that no progress could have been made in an agreement that would benefit thousands of workers who are now in a state of uncertainty. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u94	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea spoke by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u95	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Today, Foro Asturias presents us with a GNP in defense of the industry, something with which this group fully agrees. The commitment and sensitivity of this group to industry is unquestionable, and is further reflected in the industrial policies implemented in Euskadi. Today, in the context in which we are, a robust and flexible industry is needed, able to adapt quickly to a changing context. The pandemic has shown not only the need to protect and prevent the displacement of industry, but has told us that it is the main engine of a country's economy, and that is why we believe that its role should be strengthened. In addition, industry, in order to be competitive, requires stability, stable regulatory frameworks, competitive energy prices, security of supply, in public conditions that favour the attraction of investments that have a multiplier effect on employment, and all of this we believe must be sustainable. The deployment of public policies, in the sense of what I have just mentioned, therefore requires a joint and balanced integration of all policies affecting the economic development and competitiveness of industry. This has to be made clear. We have a GNP which raises three points, although what is basically coming is to demand or urgently approve the status of the electric intensive consumer, a point with which we fully agree, since the approval of this status is being delayed a long time. That first text of the draft royal decree was proposed by the ministry in February 2019 and today we continue without news about it. Point three is somewhat inconcrete, as it talks about implementing measures to promote competitiveness and reduce energy costs similar to those in other European countries, although no concrete measures are proposed when these European reference countries are mentioned. However, point 2 calls for the consideration of the claims of the very electro-intensive autonomous communities when regulating the status of the electro-intensive consumer. And despite agreeing with it, we thought it appropriate to register an amendment - and I want to make it clear - not because we do not agree with the demands of the electro-intensive, but because, as it is written, if only their demands were accepted it would be to the detriment or to the detriment of those SMEs that would be favored by the current drafting of the electro-intensive statute, and I want to explain myself. The report of joint allegations submitted by certain autonomous governments basically proposes to reconsider the conditions of the Ministry's initial proposal of February 2019, as it focuses on its interest in the status of a large electric consumer and, thereby, to improve the economic reductions in access tolls of companies with access rates 6.4, which is understandable; but it is also necessary to recognise that with the statute all access rates improve, reduce their costs of renewable charge, cogeneration and non-penisular territories; although the reduction is the lower the level of tariff tension; although it must be clarified that the lower the level of tension, the access tolls are more expensive. With the draft of the Royal Decree 2020, in relation to charges 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3 remain 12, 6 and 4 times more expensive than 6.4, although the differential in absolute terms is reduced. The draft of the real decree 2020 of the statute is true that it does not cover the expectations of the very large consumers of the tariff 6.4, the very electrointensive, by lowering it only 0.5 euros the megawatt. Having said that, I would also like to recall that the allegations want to return to the consideration that, in order to be electro-intensive, electricity consumption must be greater than 40 gigawatts/year, compared to the draft of the Royal Decree 2020, which says that it must be greater than 1 gigawatt. If this claim were accepted, it would be reduced from 600 to about 200 companies which, at the state level, could have access to the statute; and, in the case of Euskadi, only 19 companies with consumption greater than 40 gigawatts are identified and therefore we could not accept it. In addition, the allegations seek to revert to a different period of valley consumption. Greater demand for electricity consumption in the valley period further restricts access to the electro-intensive condition. On the other hand, the allegations propose two categories of the electro-intensive that does not propose the real decree 2020, and two types of compensation favoring, yes, more hyper-intensive. That is why we have proposed an amendment to study the claims of these autonomous communities, but without doing so to the detriment of SMEs which, as consumers of energy, do not exceed 40 gigawatts a year and which also bear high energy costs. Nor can we allow the claims of hyper-intensive to the detriment of the electro-intensive to be met. It is therefore a matter of striking a balance and helping not only the larger but also the medium or smaller. Therefore, we understand that the statute should seek compensation but in a balanced manner, and that the allegations seek to favor those we have spoken of as highly electro-intensive. As I said at the beginning of my intervention, industry in order to be competitive requires stability, stable regulatory frameworks and competitive energy prices, but it is also necessary to take into account and take into account the real situation to which it is based and to seek balance, because it cannot harm others either by the claims of itself. Let us finally see what the amendments are like, whether ours is accepted or whether there is any compromise before we set our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u96	Thank you very much. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Moralesja Gómez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u97	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you all. I am speaking on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to position us in this Foro Asturias initiative. Mr Martínez Oblanca, this morning we have been talking about this same subject and I would like to share with you your concern about the situation of the electro-intensive industry and the industry in general in our country. And it is no less, as we see how every day the strong and robust industry - as the deputy from the Basque Group said - that we all know is slowly fading away. We have been saying for years about Alcoa that if a status was not approved in conditions, as you explain in your initiative, the continuity of the plants was put at risk and finally, unfortunately, what we were warning happened. And look, ladies and gentlemen, the account of the statute is as follows, and I will remember it with facts. On October 31, 2018, Minister Ribera announced in Congress for the first time an electro-intensive statute. On February 5, 2019, Minister Maroto announced the statute for three months. On March 11, 2019 Pedro Sánchez says at a meeting in A Coruña that in nine months his government would guarantee Alcoa's future. On 26 June 2019, after the general elections, Minister Maroto stated that the statute would be approved as soon as the Government was formed. And we arrived on January 20, 2020, after the electoral repetition and with the coalition government already set up, Minister Díaz, who is not today, Minister Díaz, who was always demonstrating with those of Alcoa? where is Minister Díaz and what has she done during these two years??, that lady, she said the statute would be approved in a few days and we're still waiting. [[Applauds]] And when in February 2020 they finally present a draft, all - the Autonomous Communities, the companies and the works councils - agree that it was insufficient and did not guarantee the continuity of the electrointensive industries, and in fact, the Autonomous Communities of Galicia, Asturias and Cantabria presented allegations in defense of the interests of industry and employment. But, time goes by and this one's over. We are on 13 October 2020 and are we still discussing initiatives in this House? Why? Because we are still without status, ladies and gentlemen, despite what has been announced by everyone, by all the ministers and ministers of this government and by the Secretary-General of Industry in this house recently, on 9 September, and later, as Mr Martínez Oblanca pointed out, the government's intention to reject compensation to the large industry with a high probability of ending up not recognizing the basic industry on which thousands of jobs depend. Is this another joke, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party? This is another joke, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations. Can we? As my partner Ana Vázquez would say, the Spaniards are already tired of these jokes of bad taste. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that they take advantage of their government partners or those who accompanied Mr Sánchez in his investiture, as is the case with the Member of the BNG, it is not right - it is not right at all - but that they try to take it from all the workers of the industry in this country is shameful. And I also believe that Mr. del Bloque Nacionalista Galego came here to Madrid and said that he had had a meeting with this government and that he had been satisfactory. Satisfactory? Satisfactory for who? Last week in the Galician Parliament, we explained to you what was the way both to the Socialist Party and to the Nationalist Bloque Galego: first, to do everything possible and with all the instruments that are within the reach of our rule of law for Alcoa to sell its factory and, second, if we found that Alcoa does not want to sell, in order to eliminate a competitor - with the damage that this would cause to La Mariña Lucense and, therefore, to Spain - then SEPI would have to act to put the San Cibrao factory on the market and then sell it to a private investor that guarantees a viable industrial project for the maintenance of the industrial activity and the jobs of La Mariña Lucense. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, stop talking about things that don't interest people; focus and work. They pay what they owe to the autonomous communities; they pay what they owe to the municipalities so that they can dedicate it to their neighbours; they pay what they owe to the ERTE and extend what they can and need to help our businesses and our neighbours; they pay what they owe to the minimum living income and, please, worry and take care of the self-employed; worry and take care of trade; worry and take care of the hospitality; worry and, ultimately, work for the tourism and industry of this country. Do something, please, and if you are not able to improve this situation, please leave. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Renau Martínez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon. The truth is that I am very pleased that we are talking about the situation of basic industry in this country and, in particular, the situation of employment in industry, more than anything because until recently and in recent years there has been no industrial policy of any kind in this country. Let us remember that it was Mr Rajoy's last government that dismantled the Ministry of Industry. Let us remember that the arrival of Mr Nadal to that ministry meant the elimination of the word industry from his name, although, seeing what he did with the energy sector and, in particular, with renewables, perhaps if he had removed the word energy we would also have done a little better for all of us. The issue of electro-intensive status is something that comes from far away. It is true that we are talking about this quite recently, and this is the second non-law proposal in plenary, but, although I mentioned Mr Nadal earlier, this comes from a long time ago, from his predecessor, Mr Soria, because let us remember that about eight years and two weeks ago today he presented himself at a plant in Alcoa to say that this was settled, that on 1 January 2013 there would be an electro-intensive consumer statute. I don't know, I don't see it anywhere. In fact, he did not have time to do so while he was at the head of the ministry, nor did Mr. Nadal have time while he was dismantling the ministry. Alcoa was already threatening closure, threatening mass layoffs, and what has happened since then? Now he's complaining. In the seven years that the People's Party was at the head of the government, what happened? [[Rumors]] This Government has already submitted a draft royal decree, because this Government has done more for the electro-intensive industry in a year than the People's Party did in the previous two full legislatures. The Government proposes an electro-intensive statute based on three fundamental pillars: the first is the bonus of renewables charges and the bonus of extra-penisular costs charges, the second pillar is the subsidy lines for indirect CO2 emissions and the third pillar is the bilateral energy contracts, the famous PPPs, for which it has already provided the Energy Bilateral Procurement Guarantee Fund with €200 million per year for the next three years. Of course, we must support the industry in this country, and in that sense, Mr Martínez Oblanca, we basically agree with the non-law proposal that you put forward. It is, of course, urgent to adopt a statute for electro-intensive consumers as soon as possible, and the Government has already said and reiterated on numerous occasions that it will be during this month of October; yes, trust me. In addition, you are also talking about your non-law proposal for the defence of employment in industry, and we could not agree more. Of course, employment must be defended. But, be careful, we can't fall for blackmail. A moment ago I mentioned Alcoa. This is a company that has received more than EUR 800 million in grants and subsidies in the last decade but has not made the necessary investments to ensure the continuity of work in your company or to guarantee its competitiveness, and that cannot be allowed. This is not a matter of electro-intensive status, it is not, because there are investors who are interested in Alcoa plants to continue their work. With regard to the amendments and the self-amendment, we have tabled an amendment so that we know what the rules of play are on the board we are on. The board is the European Union and the rules of the game are the rules that we ourselves in the European Union have created and accepted, which is the Community regulatory framework. And as far as the self-amendment that you and the People's Party are concerned, the CO2 compensation mechanisms and the amounts that you handle depend on the State's general budgets, as you well know. At this moment we are living with the budgets of the day of the marmot, we are talking about the budgets of 2018, still Montoro, a completely restrictive budgets, and with those mimbres he is doing what can be done. But do you want to increase aid? [[Rumors]] It's very easy. Mrs Moraleja, it is very simple: support us by adopting new General State Budgets and there they will have an increase in these headings. [[Applauds]] If there's one thing that this country's industry really needs, it's that we all work together to support it, all together, and let's stop arguing that they don't lead anywhere. That is why we have given you an approach, Mr Martínez Oblanca, which we hope you can take into account, so that we can work together for the industry in this country and for the future of the reconstruction of this country in the situation we are in. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u100	Thank you very much. Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u101	Over the past decade, the price of the electricity generation market has recorded continuous increases reaching record levels. The explanation for these developments is based both on the increase in regulated costs, which is the result of poor regulation, and on the sharp rise in the CO2 emission price and the rise in the price of raw materials. The cost of these duties has come to an inordinate rise, so much so that it is insurmountable by industry. The data show the maintenance of our energy dependence, more than 70%, the limited gap between economic growth and pollutant emissions that have been consolidated in this decade and, in relation to all this, the limited renewable production, where in our country we have many possibilities. These events have motivated the closure of electrointensive industries such as Alcoa, which are still waiting for a situation of improvement. In October 2018, the multinational Alcoa announced its intention to close its aluminium plants located in Galicia; today, unfortunately, it is already a reality. The company argued to the trade union representatives that the closure is due to structural and technological problems of the factories, including the exponential rise in electricity prices, of vital importance for this type of electro-intensive companies, which also abound in the industrial sector of Asturias. However, the Spanish Government has repeatedly opted for a confrontational attitude, disregarding the reasons given by the sector. The Minister for the Ecological Transition, Teresa Ribera, considered it an excuse, a smokescreen that the aluminum multinational claimed at the high price of electricity. But no, Minister, it's a reality. These statements clash with a clear reality: the price of electricity in the Spanish generation market has experienced increases from 50 euros per megawatt/hour to over 80 euros at the time when this closure was announced. Also and practically until the current crisis of the COVID-19, we experience several months of record prices, unabsorbed by our industry. And Alcoa is not an isolated case, Cemex and Vesta have already announced the closure of several of their plants in Spain, with little success by the government in avoiding the consequences of this high price. For these reasons, there is sufficient motivation for the Government of Spain to take clear and decisive measures to reverse the industrial situation in our country. However, the current Government of Spain closes in a band, with an accusatory and negligent attitude, despite the fact that in the Royal Decree-Law 20/2018, validated in Congress, a maximum period of six months was set for the publication of the electro-intensive statute. Even today, more than a year and a half later, we do not have the above-mentioned instrument. The Minister of Industry wanted to blame the opposition for this delay, despite the fact that during 2019 several rules of higher rank were published, even during the election campaign period, how curious. The truth is that now, several months after the investiture, the Government has no excuse to continue turning its back on this reality. On the other hand, there is the problem with the cogeneration sector. Cogeneration currently plays an essential role in both the electrical system and the industrial system of our country. For their part, the Community guidelines provide for an essential and central role of cogeneration for energy saving in the industrial sector. But in the face of this reality again confrontation, confrontation and no solution. The Ministry for the Ecological Transition has recently published the remuneration parameters for these facilities, where a global cut of approximately 35% is proposed for these facilities; helping the industry, as we can see. These circumstances give rise to the recognition of plants as less than they would be entitled to according to the actual calculation of the evolution of the pool, and their economic sustainability is therefore totally in doubt. In fact, the announcement of this parameter has served to finish the activity, for example, of Sniace, another industry that needs cogeneration in the Autonomous Community of Cantabria. And the same fate that Sniace can run the cogeneration of the rest of Spain. From Citizens we are not alien to this problem and believe that there is scope for defining a clear and decisive industrial energy policy, based on the following measures: to substantially increase the amount of compensation mechanisms for indirect greenhouse gas emissions costs, to promote bilateral contracts for the supply of electricity and to promote the long-awaited legislative framework for the implementation of closed energy networks. In order to support this initiative, we are waiting for a compromise. But we will support this initiative, because we believe it is fundamental. It is not what the Socialist Party thinks, that it should not table amendments, but talk to its ministers, because they are two, industry and transition, so that they really bring the electro-intensive status. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u102	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. My intention was to go up to this rostrum to defend the need for the adoption of a statute for the electro-intensive industry as soon as possible, but I was surprised, like this morning, that the spokesman for the People's Party, Mrs Moraleja, seems very concerned about the BNG. I do not know whether it is because in the past elections the BNG went from six to nineteen deputies and in a poll published this Sunday it still won three more deputies, two of them at the expense of the Popular Party, which lost representation. [[Mrs. Moralesja Gómez makes negative gestures]] The truth is that this policy of confusing the fact that the responsibility for the non-existence of a statute for the electro-intensive industry is still shocking for a Member of the BNG. We defend this need from the beginning and continue to do so, because the BNG does not rule in Madrid. Do you know who rules? The Socialist Party and Podemos. Do you know who ruled? The People's Party between 2011 and 2018, and did not take forward the status of the electro-intensive industry. Moreover, you spoke of Alcoa and forgot to say that Feijóo in election campaign, just a few months ago, said something so surprising that if he won the elections he would solve Alcoa's problem, as if Feijóo hadn't ruled for eleven years. Apparently, I wasn't serious for those eleven years. He won the election and Feijóo doesn't worry about solving Alcoa's problem. By the way, this morning in the Committee on Industry we adopted an initiative by the BNG; it is true that with the votes of almost all political forces: except those of the far right, those of VOX.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u104	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u105	We will continue to work to save Alcoa and to ensure that there is a statute for the electro-intensive industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u106	Thank you. Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u107	Thank you, President. The industrial sector is one of the main energy consumers in Catalonia. Improving energy efficiency is a key element for business competitiveness. The cost of energy in our industry is higher than in the main competing countries. Mr Martínez Oblanca is concerned about the evolution of the competitiveness of the large basic industry, according to the allegations made jointly by the Governments of Asturias, Galicia and Cantabria to the status of the electrointensive consumer. We share your concern, but we also extend it to the whole range of medium-sized industries with highly electro-intensive activities, such as those we have in Catalonia. The Government of Catalonia has also submitted allegations to the draft statute. We will support the motion in its three points: firstly, in the urgent claim of the status of the electric intensive consumer, which we hope will be a reality this month in October, and I would like to remind the members of the Government that they are still waiting to draw up the regulation of closed networks; secondly, in the demand for a more competitive, stable and predictable price for the electric invoice, which has a very direct impact on the competitiveness of many industrial activities and their corresponding jobs, and finally, we also share the need to adopt other regulations that will reduce the energy costs, which are now loaded with supplements, which undermine the competitiveness of a multitude of industrial activities. This country has been suffering from ambitious and sustained industrial policies for years. On the other hand, all analysts agree on the need to strengthen industrial activity as one of the main axes to emerge from the current crisis, and, in the context of industrial activities, it is essential to reduce the energy bill both by improving efficiency and savings in production processes and by reducing energy costs for a sector highly regulated by the State Administration. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. Those of us who have had the honour of attending the Committee on Industry this morning have the advantage or inconvenience that we already know the end of this debate, because it has something to spoil what many of the speakers have been saying. Mr. Martínez Oblanca, laudable. The high price of electricity is but another example of the inefficient, of the lapse that is the energy model of the Spanish State. It is the result of laws made in the image and likeness of the political and economic elites that gave birth to them. It is the reflection of the rotating doors, unfortunately so characteristic precisely of the electric oligopoly that for years and years - the pediment that we have seen between the old bipartisanism reinforces this idea - have worked hard to support. One of the consequences, the one that shows this GNP that we are discussing today: a flagrant loss of competitiveness for companies that have to pay much higher energy prices than their European counterparts, and the German example that you cited is a palm tree. In Republican Left we have not been impassioned by this reality. We have denounced as active and passive that we believe in the need to strengthen the productive economy, bled at the cost of speculation. We believe that we need to strengthen an industrial sector that is committed to digitisation and energy transition, because we know that an industrialised economy means skilled, well-paid, stable jobs that create added value. That is why we believe in an industrialised and competitive economy, which must be one of the basic pillars of the future Catalan Republic, and they are now going to laugh. In the meantime, we are realistic and fully aware that the 78 regime is irreplaceable, although we have not stopped fighting for what we believe is fair, and so we have put forward various initiatives aimed at lowering the price of electricity for businesses and SMEs. Many of them had the explicit support of this progressive Government, such as the seasonal power contract or the implementation of closed energy networks, which, unfortunately, as Mrs Cañadell reminded them, have not yet materialized. Mr Martínez Oblanca, we empathize with your battle and will therefore not oppose your initiative. In December it will be two years, as has been recalled, of the adoption of the Royal Decree 20/2018, of urgent measures for the industry, including the commitment of the Government to approve the electro-intensive status. But it also included another measure that we consider to be a priority in the fight against excessive electricity prices: closed energy networks. This measure would allow something as logical as having a single connection to the electricity grid between different companies in the same integrated polygon. This for certain electro-intensive sectors, such as chemicals, would save no less than 20% of energy costs, a measure that is key, for example, for the petrochemicals of Tarragona. Mr Martínez Oblanca, I suggest the short cut that we are going to try, which is to present it as an amendment to add to the climate change and energy transition law and draw a red line on it. In the face of the current social and economic crisis, we believe that it is more important than ever to implement these measures to ensure employment protection. Inaction is simply inabsorbable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u110	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the joint Podemos-En Comú PodemosGalicia Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u111	Thank you, President. For decades now, the industry in this country has been suffering higher energy costs than its main competitors in international markets, logically affecting the competitiveness of our industry. In addition, and following the effects of the pandemic, it is becoming more pressing if there is a clear commitment from public administrations to promote the stability of energy costs in the medium term. However, in order to address this problem, it is necessary to start first from the current framework of the situation. Electricity prices have fallen since it did not govern the People's Party by 39%; that is 20 points lower than in Germany, 3 points higher than in France. In any case, the Spanish State still maintains prices higher than those of these countries and that is why the coalition government is doing its duties, as the People's Party has not done in so many years of government, and is working on the implementation of the statute of the electro-intensive companies. But, look, there are a number of factors that cause energy prices in the Spanish state to be higher than in other European countries. One of the main factors is the high level of energy dependence of 74%, compared to 55% on average in the European Union. This means paying more energy and having less capacity to intervene on final prices. Between 2008 and 2012, the dependency rate was reduced to 70%, thanks to the increase in renewable energy. But what happened? Once again the People's Party did its job and suspended the incentives to this industry via royal decree, thus turning to the scheme of imported energy and high prices. And not only that, the protection of an innovative sector in which the Spanish State was at the head of the world was cut off. All this, by the way, without consulting the sector and the main players in this area. And, look, to whom that government of the People's Party may have listened and attended was the big electric companies, an oligopoly that we remember that concentrates 90% of the final market in the Spanish state. You have, as always, made policies tailored to this oligopoly, which have meant the maintenance of an obsolete model, a brake on innovation, energy sovereignty and that in this country higher prices are paid and thus the competitiveness of our industry is reduced. With regard to the statute, other speakers have already said so today. The vehemence of Mrs Moraleja is surprising, when it was Minister Soria of the People's Party, who in 2013 said that she was going to solve this issue; such a thing was never done. In contrast to this attitude of abandonment, the current Government opened the dialogue with the sector and the autonomous communities and proposals were collected in both the initial text and the second draft. The text was also adjusted to the guidelines established by the European Union, which is basic to provide certainty and certainty to our industry. And advanced the process, in a few weeks it will be implemented and brought to this House in the short term. Therefore, what the People's Party Government has not done for years is doing in a very difficult situation for the coalition Government in a few months. In addition, the statute will come to this House with different mechanisms aimed at mitigating the effects of energy costs on competitiveness. The compensation will reach the maximum permitted by the European guidelines, 85 % of the countervailable costs for all electric intensive consumers. This is in addition to the creation of the Guarantee Fund for Electro-Intensive Entities to cover the risks of medium-term purchasing and the tax benefits on excise duty on electricity, which reach up to 80% of the tax base for electro-intensive consumers. In short, it is absolutely essential to adopt and bring in an electro-intensive status. That is what this Government is working on, that is the commitment we have. By the way, if we talk about Alcoa, what should never have happened is that it was privatized as it was privatized, what should never have happened is that billions of dollars in subsidies will be given to companies without the commitment to keep their jobs and the industrial project and, ultimately, what cannot be allowed is that an American multinational has in its hands the future of hundreds of families in our country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u112	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have lived here, in this Chamber and in the Committee on Industry, an absolutely surreal, delusional and completely insane situation, in a demonstration of what I would say is the worst face of Spanish politics so far. The Socialist Party and the People's Party have been throwing their pieces at each other about who was responsible for the non-existence of this electro-intensive statute and, therefore, for the lack of protection of companies supposedly benefiting from this statute. All this, this struggle between brothers that seems to be going very badly, adapted with an agreement this very morning in the Committee of Industry between the two parties in a proposal presented by the BNG - in particular, by a representative of a party within the BNG that is communist, Marxist and Leninist - by which these three parties agree to launch themselves to the intervention and, therefore, to the nationalization - you call it whatever you want - of a private company in Spain. The situation is absolutely surreal, there is no one who understands it and it is really sad because we are in a Spain in which we have 50,000 dead by the coronavirus that do not even have a name. A Spain in which, like a skinny dog, everything is fleas, in addition to the human tragedy, the economic tragedy is added; an economic tragedy that no party in this House is willing to stop, they are not even launching proposals for it. What they're doing is wasting their time throwing smoke bombs with absurdities like the ones we've had to listen to today, always turning around that Francoism, Francoism, Francoism, because they can't talk about anything else. We have lost two hours in this debate talking alone and exclusively about Francoism. [[Applauds]] What do you intend, gentlemen? Do you seek to solve the real problems of Spain and the Spanish or do you just want to confuse us? They just want to confuse us, because that seems to be really the government's goal now, which only lies over and over again. He lied when he swore that he would not deal with communism and he has agreed with communism; he lied when he promised that he would not deal with ETA and he has agreed with ETA; he lied when he promised that he would protect the Spanish industry, when he promised that he would bring an electro-intensive status, when he promised it without anyone forcing him. They self-imposed that obligation and they've lied, they've lied. We're here almost two years later and we have no status. [[Applauds]] The only thing we have is an absolutely infumable basofia and which the supposed beneficiaries themselves have told you, Mr Socialist Party, that as you approve it as it is written, the sector will disappear. The alleged beneficiaries of their rule have asked them not to approve it, please, as drafted. It is essential that they listen to the sector because it seems that the only thing they hear are the siren songs of the next elections, the only thing they seek is to promise, promise until the moment of being voted, and once voted, they forget what they promised. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] It is important that those who listen to us from their homes know what electrotensives are. Electrointensives are those industries that need electrical energy as one of the fundamental parts for their production, as a key part in their balance of expenditure; and I will give them examples of electrointensives. For example, Alcoa is about to close. Gentlemen of the Government, about 3,000 people are going out on the street, 3,000 families are going to lose their way of life. Vesuvius in Asturias. Mrs. Lastra, worry about your region. Just 12 months ago Vesuvius threw 500 people on the street. Sniace in Cantabria the same: a few months ago he threw some 600 people on the street. Why? Because you, the Socialist Group and the Group of the European People's Party, are unable to get the Spanish industry to maintain that profitability and efficiency that it has had all its life, because you impose energy costs that are absolutely unmanageable for the European competition that we face. And you impose it, your ideological climate agenda imposes it. And where is now Mrs. Yolanda Díaz, that Minister of Labor that so many photographs were taken in Alcoa? Where is he now to defend the sector? Where is Mrs. Maroto, who is the kind face of the government, who promises and promises but her promises never arrive? Where are they? Because Spain and Spanish industry need solutions now, and they need them now because it will disappear as you do not do what you have promised.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u114	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u115	Thank you so much. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, of the People's Group, and in particular, please, Members from Asturias, Galicia and Cantabria, listen to their autonomous communities and please support the electro-intensive industry. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u116	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. I only accept the amendment signed by Mrs Moraleja and myself. Therefore, there will be five points contained in this non-law proposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u118	All right. Thank you very much. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the compromise with democratic coexistence and the rejection of hatred and fanaticism. [[File number 162/000322]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u119	We continue with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on commitment to democratic coexistence and rejection of hatred and fanaticism. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this initiative seeks to respond to the concern of many Spaniards for the growing spread of messages, videos, vandalic actions also loaded with hatred, fanaticism and extremism that are threatening our coexistence now, today, in Spain. This deterioration of coexistence is directly related to the rise of the far right and its radical and intolerant messages. It is not exclusive to Spain alone. In Germany they have their neo-Nazis, in Greece at their Golden Dawn, in France at their extreme right, in the United States their white supremacists and we have what we have sitting here. Its approaches are as simple as repetitive: they promote incivic values by pointing out false culprits for real problems; they encourage hatred of feminists, immigrants, progressive politicians; they manipulate and distort history to try to justify totalitarian regimes; and they seek the delegitimization of institutions when they govern progressive formations. It is a simple, fallacious speech, we can say sapphire, childish, even paleto, but it has its effect; it has its effect when it produces hatred, when it undermines our coexistence. We see it day by day on social networks, on our streets, on the assault on our premises, on vandalism in our monuments. They are a danger and the Democrats cannot stand idly by, we must give a clear and strong answer. One of the last episodes of promoting ultra-hatred took place only a few days ago when, on the one hand, Mr Abascal claimed here the governments of eighty years ago, that is, the governments of the dictatorship, while his colleague Ortega Smith, in the City Hall of Madrid, promoted the infamy of withdrawing from the street of the capital the names of two great freedom fighters such as Indalecio Prieto and Francisco Largo Caballero. [[Applauds]] More than two hundred and fifty history teachers have already taken care of disassembling all the scumbags, all the scumbags. Prieto and Largo militaron against totalitarianism. Prieto and Largo defended republican legality and suffered persecution of Francoism and Nazism, even. This is the undisputed historical truth. Possibly, a part of the right has tried with this infamous action to counter or react to the exit of Franco del Valle de los Fallos, and we have to tell you two things. In a few days we will bring here the law of democratic memory and with that law in hand, here and in the City of Madrid, we will prevent you from turning the truth into a lie, the lie into truth, the executioners into victims and the victims into executioners. [[Applauds]] Forget it, we're gonna stop it. And we'll tell you something else: Prieto and Largo Caballero are going back to the streets of Madrid, they're going back with all the honors. We will take care of it, but Francisco Franco will not return to the Valley of the Fallen because Spanish society will never again allow the exaltation of a murderer dictator, never again. [[Applauds]] Keep that in mind. The far right practices, ladies and gentlemen, an artefact and dangerous game: they try to blur the border between truth and lies, the truth and the uncertainty, what happened and what did not happen, dictatorship and democracy to try to whiten their terrible past. They play anti-politics: institutions cheat, the media lie, political parties don't serve, everyone goes to their own, it's good for libertarian feminists, empowered immigrants and solvent autonomy. Here with Franco he lived better and what is needed is order, command, stick and tempting for the one who moves. They practice the delegitimization of those who think differently because the far right does not discuss the reasons for the contrary, the far right what it does is delegitimize it. That is why we are not accused of interventionists, for example; we are accused of criminals and tyrants. It is not that we are denied the reasons - this is what is done with the adversary -, we are denied the existence, which is what is done with the enemy. The adversary is discussed and tried to convince, the enemy is tried to eliminate. This is the seed of hatred that is fomenting the far right in this country and that destroys democracy and destroys coexistence. [[Applauds]] But here, in Spain, they are feared for something more than their ridiculous sophistications; they are feared for their history, because here they have a history, a terrible history. Here we know what they are capable of, we have suffered them for forty years. That is why we have to tell you that the Socialist Party has ruled, governs and will rule in this country, and next week, after voting on its motion of censure, Pedro Sánchez will remain President of the Government of Spain and the following week as well and the following and the following and the following and the following, as long as the Spanish want to vote. [[Applauds]] It's called democracy, great men like Largo Caballero and Indalecio Prieto suffered and fought to defend it and this time has arrived to stay and will not take it away from us, ladies and gentlemen of the far right. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - and I am finishing - we are concerned that you will follow the game of ultras. We did not just know if you do it out of conviction, because you actually think the same Abascal and Married, or you do it out of fear of losing votes on your right. The first would be terrible because it would take them away from the democratic right that co-protagonized the democratic transition with us. I would take them away from the democratic right, which in Germany or France fight the ultras and do not agree with them. But, secondly, the fear of losing votes would be a grave mistake, ladies and gentlemen, because if you assume VOX's values, if you follow VOX's principles, if you follow your speech together and follow your initiatives, your voters will end up voting for VOX. Think about it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. And, of course, do not back VOX by claiming both the democratic transition and the Spanish Constitution, because if there is something that still represents the democratic transition and the Spanish Constitution is the unequivocal will of Spanish society to leave behind the dark times represented by the far right. That is what the Constitution represents, the defence of our rights and freedoms to which the ultra-right threatens. I'm done, Mr. President. Today we put forward a non-legislative proposal to defend democratic coexistence. We will soon bring, as I said, a law of democratic memory to eradicate fanaticism and hatred, to claim those who fought and suffered in the name of the common good, and this social-communist coalition will do so. They think they're insulting us, but we're proud of our history. We looked back with our heads up high. We have a history of success and mistakes, but it is a history of service to the general interest from the principles of equality, freedom and social justice, ladies and gentlemen - you will know nothing about this - a history of decency. And I'm not...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u121	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u122	I'm done, Mr. President. If we enjoy democracy today, it is also thanks to the struggle and sacrifice of many Spanish Communists, and despite you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] I'm done with a warning, because this is going on today's announcements. Mine doesn't hide behind the anonymity of a Twitter account. Those who threaten our freedoms, our democratic institutions, our peaceful coexistence, the socialists, their party and their parliamentary group will always find us without fear, standing up, facing them and losing their faces. Keep that in mind. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u123	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mrs Ruiz Solás spoke by the VOX Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is incredible that you have come here to talk about commitment to democratic coexistence and rejection of hatred and fanaticism and have done here the greatest demonstration of hatred and fanaticism that has ever been seen in this House. [[Applauds]] Your sectarianism and intransigence have no limits, Mr Simancas. So much moral misery! Too bad! [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are presenting a non-legislative proposal on the commitment of democratic coexistence and rejection of hatred and fanaticism - that is what you are presenting - and we are 100% with you. We are 100 percent with you because we completely reject hatred and fanaticism, because we are disgusted and disgusted by hatred and fanaticism, all kinds of hatred and fanaticism, against anyone, under any circumstances, always and without excuses. See if it disgusts us that this is precisely why we are here, precisely why VOX is the third political force in this country, because we are many Spaniards who are sick of hatred and fanaticism; of hatred and fanaticism towards our homeland, of hatred and fanaticism towards our history, towards the private, towards our traditions, towards our Christian values, towards the traditional family, towards the faith of many Spaniards, and especially the hatred and fanaticism of exclusive nationalisms who have kidnapped, blackmailed and murdered, and who, instead of being condemned to ostracism, are sitting in their seats thanks to you and your betrayal of the Spanish people. [[Applauds]] The video you are referring to in your motion, because in your motion you are referring to a concrete video that is the one that motivated this initiative - by the way, a very loose and very unprepared initiative to deal with such an important issue, so much so that you have had to make amends yourself even?, it is disgusting, it is disgusting. But it is as disgusting as many other videos that you do not give importance to because they are not directed against your own and that, precisely because they are not directed against your own, you justify as freedom of expression or as a democratic syrup. [[Applauds]] But the ones responsible for these unfortunate videos are never just their authors, ladies and gentlemen, but also those who feed hatred with their sopplamas and those who unearth, promote and stir and stir the laudazal without any kind of scruple in search of political revenue. As the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pablo Iglesias, did here on 29 April, when he threatened from this rostrum to remove the filth that, according to him, represents VOX, after pointing out his fifty-two deputies insulting them and defaming them seriously. [[Applauds]] That's what Mr. Iglesias did here, in front of everyone, distilling hatred in his gestures and words; and to you, socialist gentlemen, it seemed great. You all applauded your vice president, and none seemed to abhor such barbarity, none. In 2018, after the Andalusian elections, Mr.Paul Iglesias publicly enlisted the masses calling for the creation of an anti-fascist front to stop VOX. The result was violent demonstrations, assaults and destructions of urban furniture, and neither did you say anything. They didn't say anything; it must have looked great to them, too. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well - and you know very well - that this harassment and overthrow of our formation has resulted in a multitude of violent acts against VOX, against our supporters, affiliates and public officials, not only through videos and attacks on social networks, we are talking about physical and verbal attacks, threats of death, brutal force exerted savagely to prevent us from holding political acts, even in an election campaign, and you have not cared about it, you have remained silent. None of you have hailed against that fanaticism and hatred, none; sepulchral silence, ladies and gentlemen. Sepulchral silence of a cowardly right that sets itself on a profile so as not to stain itself with mud or the sole of the shoes and sepulchral silence of a left that considers it lawful to allow the use of the degree of violence that is necessary to prevent those who think differently from expressing themselves. Is this the commitment to the democratic coexistence that you have? Is this the commitment you're coming to claim here today? Let me tell you that you are hypocrites; hypocrites and cynics. [[Applauds]] But the worst is not that you don't give importance to fanaticism and hatred when it is exercised against others, the worst is that you encourage it, because you believe that adversaries can be insulted, slandered, assaulted and harassed. And as for the adversaries, they can be insulted, slandered, assaulted and harassed, they must be turned into someone who deserves it, into someone who can be hated; and then you turn to the wild of the fascist because, put on the false label, everything is worth against the fascist. You do exactly what the Nazis did to the Jews, exactly the same. Once turned into cockroaches before the eyes of public opinion, making them disappear is bread eaten. [[Applauds]] And in those you are, in those, making public opinion believe that we are cockroaches. But the deputies of VOX and their four million voters are only ordinary people who peacefully defend their principles and ideas and who do not deserve the ill-treatment to which you are subjected.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u125	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u126	Yeah, you're gonna excuse me for a second, please. That is why we are surprised to learn from the democratic coexistence of those who provoke so much hatred and fanaticism from the institutions, that it is precisely those who are the creators of a law of historical memory that is pure hatred and pure fanaticism, because it is born of revanchism. How can they come to talk to us about democratic coexistence if they do not even understand that the Spanish people were able to forgive the horrors of the Civil War and to erase and make new accounts? Do you not realize that it is you and only you who are responsible for reopening wounds that had already healed? Don't they know how to live without confrontation and hatred? Can't they forgive?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u127	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, your party, which you so much presume, has a criminal past as terrible or more than that which others may have, with their Czechs, with their sacks, with their tortures, with their shootings. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u129	His party has its hands stained with blood, with the blood of so many innocent people. You never asked for forgiveness and yet you were forgiven, you were forgiven. [[Rumors]] So great is the generosity of the Spanish people. I wouldn't be too...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u130	Mrs. Ruiz, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u131	Yeah. It would not be too much for you to have a little of that generosity and forgive too; it would not be too much for you to stop tearing your clothes just by violent acts against your own and also condemn violent acts against others. Ladies and gentlemen - and I conclude - we agree with you that fanaticism does not understand colors or acronyms, and that is why we will always be against incitement to hatred and violence against the Government, but we will also always be against incitement to hatred and violence against opposition parties and their voters, and against the institutions of the State, the Royal House, the judiciary, even more so if it is done by the Government of the nation itself. Include this amendment of ours... [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u132	Your Honor, thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Jiménez-Becerril Barrio has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u133	Thank you, President. This non-law proposal that they bring us today confirms to me that hypocrisy has no limits. You say here, in your proposal, that you reject violence, but when the people of Bildu decapitate a statue of the king in Navarre, they silence and grant and continue to rule with them. [[Applauds]] For you, Mr. Simancas, aren't Bildu's times dark? What are they, progressism? You say in this initiative that you are concerned about incitement to hatred, and you are not worried, ladies and gentlemen, how bloody it is to have Bildu in this Chamber, who does not condemn the murders of ETA and pays tribute to the terrorists? That's hate for all the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] You have no moral authority to speak of hate crimes when you negotiate with those who do not condemn the murder of my brother, Alberto, nor of his wife, Ascen, nor of Jaime Mateu's father and brother, nor of Toni Salvá's son, nor of the nieces and brother of José Alcáraz, all of you present here. The Socialists should be ashamed to applaud Bildu in front of us, victims of ETA. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and of the VOX Parliamentary Group, stood up. Several Members: Very well!]] And since we are talking about hate, I now ask Bildu: When are they going to present an initiative that condemns ETA terrorism and defends its victims from past and present hate crimes? Why is this government not required instead of negotiating labour reform with them? And you, Mr. Sánchez, next time you thank Bildu's spokesman, remember that she was convicted for advocating terrorism for defending the terrorist organization ETA and its members, that organization you call gang and those terrorists you call Basque prisoners and those who suffer deeply when they take their lives. How hypocrisy! How are we going to expect this House to ban the expression 'Vascos political prisoners' to refer to ETA terrorists if the President of the Government whitewashs them? [[Applauds]] In this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, the humiliation of the victims of terrorism is allowed and you will consent. What indignity! Since you talk about fanaticism, are you going to make an initiative to denounce the hatred suffered by those facing ETA in the Basque Country and Navarre? Of course not. Bildu is not coughed, he will not remove the chair in which Sanchez sits thanks to those five vows that so indignantly hold him. The agenda of hatred in the Basque Country and Navarre the Bildu brand against the Police, the Civil Guard and the victims of terrorism. Let's see if you have the courage to write it down in your proposals. Moreover, it is clear that there is a double measuring scale: in the European Parliament the Socialists voted against investigating the 370 ETA crimes that remain unresolved and here they did not vote in favour of Article 578 of the Criminal Code, which condemns the rise of terrorism. I have suffered those tributes when the mayor of Villava offered and dedicated the holidays of the village to the murderer of my brother and his wife. Do you know where that terrorist is now? Well, she's closer to home. Why, Mr. Marlaska? So that when the prison powers are transferred, they put him on the street? How expensive we are going to get, the victims of ETA, the support for Sanchez! The truth is that the only thing that is denounced in this sectarian initiative is the actual shooting of photographs of the President and members of the Government, which my parliamentary group condemns, like any hate crime, wherever it comes from. But I wonder: why don't you quote here all hate crimes? Why are only those who offend you and not those who offend all the Spaniards? [[Applauds]] The People's Party, all my comrades, we are here to end the free bar that this Government allows those who humiliate, not only the victims of terrorism, but the police, the Civil Guard, the Armed Forces, the constitutional organs and the Crown. Or is it that burning pictures of the king is not a hate crime? Or is it that watching our Civil Guard with posters that say, 'You are the virus' is not fanaticism? Where is the government while Bildu deputies call our police officers Nazis? Doesn't that hate count? Are you going to include in this initiative the threats against Judge Manuel García-Castellón for requesting the investigation of Pablo Iglesias? Or is that not a hate crime because it harms the vice president? If you accept our amendment, which balances and enriches your proposal, you will show that you defend the rights of all Spaniards. Otherwise, they will be portrayed as what they are, slaves of nationalism and the extreme left, who have brought only hatred and moral misery to Spain. I'm finishing up. Be brave, socialist ladies and gentlemen, put an end to hate crimes, but all of them, and do not exclude those that do not hurt them. When they do, I'll believe them. Meanwhile, keep quiet and looking elsewhere when you see that Spanish flags are burning and our Constitution, by which my brother Alberto, his wife Ascen and so many victims of terrorism have given their lives, as much as that book that my colleague Adolfo Suárez so dignifiedly reads when ETA's heirs come up to this rostrum. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u134	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions. [[Rumors]] Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. The truth is that after hearing Mrs Jiménez-Becerril, the question that we have already asked the President of the Government, but what must be repeated today, is: is it worth it? Is it worth the power in exchange for the dignity of the victims? Is it worth it? [[Applauds]] Is the price to be paid worth it? Did you deserve it? Because when I saw that you guys were making amends, I also thought that what you were going to do was include what happened yesterday in Pamplona. Man!, after decapitating a figure of the king and of Columbus, I assumed that within this hatred would bring that. But, of course, how are you going to do it if the person who proposed it, the person who did it was Lortu, to whom you owe the Presidency of the Government of Spain and the Presidency of the Government of Navarre? They're the ones who've given them both charges! So, what else can you do that for? And, of course, it's said: no, it's that there was a genocide five hundred years ago. I don't know what happened five hundred years ago, but I do know what happened - and Mrs Jiménez-Becerril said - for many years here. There was a genocide here, an attempt was made to eliminate anyone who did not think as one through the murders. [[Applauds]] Of course, that was a genocide we've been through, but we're not talking about it, we're talking about one five hundred years ago. No, no, let's talk about today, let's talk about what happened now. But that doesn't interest you; you're interested in something else, you're interested in erasing that past and contributing to it being erased, writing the story. When asked what a terrorist was and what was going to be of the terrorists, a Baptist spokesman said: those we call terrorists today will see what they are called tomorrow because it will depend on who writes the story. The problem is that you, the Socialist Party, are helping Bildu build that story so that in a few years let's no longer talk about terrorists, but let's talk about gudaris. In the end, it's going to turn out that the victims were the bad guys. As long as it goes on like this, we'll get to that point. I therefore believe that what you have to do is ask for a shift to get out here, because, of course, after what Mrs Jiménez-Becerril has said, it seems to me that the Socialist Party would have to consider many things. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u136	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Please, be quiet. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u137	Thank you. In one section of this GNP this expression appears: today the aggression is directed to the government of the PSOE and the United Podemos, tomorrow the target could be in people of any other party. We agree, but yesterday, where was this target yesterday or in very recent times? Some examples. In September 2017, our partner Anna Gabriel visits Valencia. A painted woman receives it: Shooting Anna Gabriel. Silence, impunity, but not absolute silence, even that which is today the spokesman of Citizens here said: what did they expect? October 2017, the rise of extreme right-wing groups in Catalonia began, including an attempt to assault a media outlet, Catalonia Ràdio. No investigation, no trial, total impunity. In the face of this extreme right-wing boom we were even told in a very unfortunate way by today's Vice President Churches that we had helped to awaken the ghost of fascism. I think it would be statements that I would not repeat today. In April 2019, for example, the shooting of the doll of President Puigdemont in Coripe, province of Seville, with the mayor of the PSOE. I put these examples not only to point out the shortcomings of PNL presented by the PSOE, but also to show how well hate speech is inserted into Spanish nationalism. I know it's an expression they don't like, but that they don't like it doesn't mean it doesn't exist. The unity of Spain cannot be a dogma of faith because when there are dogmas of faith there are crusaders who feel unpunished to defend them; from these dogmas, these crusaders. The best way to combat this intolerant and aggressive Spanish nationalism is by recognizing the right of self-determination of peoples. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] A final question addressed to the Bureau of Congress on the hate speech used by this rostrum. By saying that the king is corrupt we receive a warning and our words do not come out in the Journal of Sessions. However, and to set a concrete example, to come up here and spread a false and hateful news that relates violations with the foreign population goes without any reproach, and that generates as much hatred as the video of the fascist shooter. A very partial GNP, therefore, which we cannot support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u138	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u139	Pick it up on. Good afternoon, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal you have brought here is a bit of a popurist. He came up with a previous idea and today he made a speech. I'm practically in agreement with what you said. I have more doubts about what is presented in the proposal because it lacks clarity, from my point of view. If you see that there have been parties from the extreme right that have used this proposal to defend national Catholicism, another spokesman has used to talk about the drama that we have experienced in Basque Herria, in the Basque Country, from the pain, pain that deserves solidarity, how about, with all the victims, wherever they are, be they the victims of ETA, be they the victims of state terrorism, be they the victims of Francoism. [[protests]] [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u141	Every victim has the right to truth, justice and reparation. I do not know if you have read in the press or seen that last Thursday, in the Parliament of Nafarroa, in Iruña, four victims, two victims of ETA and two victims of state terrorism were to testify. I am left with that testimony and with that lesson that they gave in support of coexistence, a future in peace, with human rights, without resentment and for the end of hatred. I am left with the lesson of those two victims of ETA and those two victims of state terrorism. [[One Member: 380 unsolved; 380!]] Hooligans, please respect the word. [[Another honourable Member: Mr Hollingans? The hoolingans are you!- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u142	One moment, please. Can you please allow the intervener to do so as the rest has done?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u143	They shouldn't like what I'm saying. I don't like what they say either. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u144	One second, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u145	We live in times when the extreme right or right does not accept that they are in opposition. Therefore, in a histrionic way, as we have seen, they try to delegitimize and destabilize, on many occasions with campaigns that can sometimes be even ridiculous. It is true that on many occasions they use videos and social networks, but this was already announced by ECRI. By the way, when we talk about hate speech, another of the shortcomings is that no one knows what they mean by hate speech. It all fits. No, for that there is a committee in Europe, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, which has clearly defined the parameters in which we move when we talk about hatred and intolerance. We see how this serves to trivialize Francoism, to equate victims and executioners. By the way, he was saying a gentleman who was either with President Companies or with Prieto. For, from my point of view, before that false dilemma, carried with arguments ad nauseam, with all by antifascists: with Largo Caballero, with Indalecio Prieto, with the President Companies, with the lehendakari Aguirre, with Telesforo Monzón, with all. Despite the differences, all antifascists. That's why they have all our respect and memory. I was saying that this proposal is a little short. As the spokesman for the UPCs mentioned, Mr Botran, we see facts that have taken place by institutions. He mentioned the fact of Coripe, but I have seen even in a tank of the Armed Forces a gentleman saying that they were going to avenge President Puigdemont; I have seen police at the National Court doing chases on Vice President Junqueras; I have also seen a deputy shooting with a sub-fusil of the Armed Forces as if it were Torrente, issuing all kinds of comments. [[laughs]] But I also saw a member of the National Police with a knife saying he was going to use it to kill menas. In the face of this, what have you done? That is why I am concerned not so much about the 'frikadas' that the extreme right can do, but what can happen from the state's own institutions. You asked: what happens in Germany, what have you done in Germany? From intelligence services, detect that there are five hundred members of the far right infiltrated into the security forces. Of course, there's none in Spain. Or what are you doing before these facts? That is why I think it is insufficiently collected. And they speak to us in the proposal that we have received today from all those who have fought to bring democracy, but they do not mention who they are. Because if those who have in mind are King Emeritus, Mr Fraga or Mr Martín Villa, then we will not agree. If he mentions them and tells us that he is Mr Prieto or goes to the Second Republic, perhaps we can meet. That is why we will abstain and be abstaining as a punishment. We are in addition to what Mr Botran has said, but also to the positioning of other formations, such as Esquerra Republicana, Bloc or Junts, because to fight against hatred, against fanaticism, it takes more courage and sometimes less hypocrisy. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: What a barbarity!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u146	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Do you not think that having to deal with this issue in this Chamber is a disgrace? It's a shame, isn't it? You don't think it's the symptom, but it's not the disease? We will try to degenerate and, if possible, answer these questions during my brief speech. Firstly, our total rejection and condemnation of acts such as that described in the proposal. Secondly, in the same way, our agreement with what is being raised in the operative part, regardless of whether we could suggest another set of issues, both in what is being rejected and in what is being promulgated. But it is, on the other hand, paradoxical to have to bring a non-law proposition so that we can reaffirm ourselves in what the non-law proposition says. How far have we gone? We are faced with a GNP of good intentions, no doubt, but I think we should dive beyond the surface and dive into the waters that are the habitat of these kinds of expressions. Why does this arise, what does it feed on? People like the Basque and parties like the Basque Nationalist Party, who have suffered from war, post-war, dictatorship, repression and, later, another heinous violence of others who were also trying to impose, know perfectly well how harmful this way of acting and understanding the opposition and denial of the other can become, because in the background it is feeding the fag from many aspects, places and visions. What political movements and ideology are behind behaviors like this? Who lights the wick with speeches and calls of a purely totalitarian and fascist nature so that others pick up that dielectric glove and turn it into a recorded and broadcast stage? The next, perfectly, logically, could be: and why not hit a real shot? The responsibility for the incendiary speeches lies with the one who provokes them. There are appeals that, beyond the legitimate political discrepancy, resound hatred, with this coating that always forgets the word freedom or democracy and covers it with patriotic and militarized paraphernalia as an example of order and the almost dogmatic consecration of elements that, unfortunately, to them are the basis of a State that, instead of looking at where the problems come from and fixing their cracks, wants to sew them, even if it is to be hammered. We have been presented with amendments. First of all, a VOX spokesman in another previous speech said: all afternoon we've been talking about Franco. We haven't been able to talk in 40 years! That's what happened! And that's why today we're talking, five minutes, about Franco. [[Applauds]] We are in this race of VOX and the PP for being the most Spanish in the world, but some Spanish of time expired. With VOX I don't intend to lose a minute. You know my opinion, I've said it before. Ortega said here the next time he'll talk about beatings; I guess he'll talk about Franco, Tejero, these people, right? I guess he'll talk about them. Yeah, right? Good. The PP is presenting us with an evil amendment and, in addition, which goes back to previous years but which, in essence, shows us its true DNA. You have a conception of politics and society in which freedom will always be subject to other higher values; values that you decide what they are, because they mix everything. Why should rejection of hatred be unequivocally linked to support for the Constitution, the unity of the State, the king, etc.? Why do they have to include elements that have little or nothing to do with the subject we are dealing with? Because the nuance - important and binding, by the way - is that you associate discerning, discriminating, even rejecting purely political elements with hatred. I think it is very serious and I will not allow you, as a representative of a centenary party that I am, to write in point 3 of your amendment 'condemn the agenda of hatred designed and developed by the independent political parties'. That's a ignominy. [[Rumors]] What did you think? [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u148	One moment, please. Mr Garcés, you are taking the whole debate by intervening and interrupting. I ask you, please, to let those in the rostrum intervene.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u149	We're used to it. Don't worry, President. Hatred, like love, are human feelings. We cannot legislate on feelings; we must legislate on acts, regardless of whether we like them more or less, we are rejected or admired. That is why we are concerned, and very much so, not with what you say in your amendment, but with acts which are directly excrementable and which do not take place in a democratic system being confused. What will it have to do to criticize or question the defense of the unity of Spain or the monarchy as if it were the same thing as hitting a metaphorical shot in the video at the photo of a politician? What's that got to do with anything? You want to put everything in the same bag, and those of us who have experienced oppression and intolerance defend and love freedom more than anything, and also democratic values, which are not synonymous with unquestionable and sacred tragalas and conditions, as you claim. I'm done. The last point that the Socialist Group has included in its self-amendment seems to us to be correct because we have suffered enough already when what is now called revisionism was the official history of the triumphant crusade of the West's spiritual reserve and the separatist reds, unclean mob. Well, that's over. Our predecessors made it very clear and so did we.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u150	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u151	We will always be with democracy and the freedom of people and peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u152	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u153	Thank you, President. Let's talk some hate. I'm telling you a story. They'll remember that in Alsasua, some civilian guards were beaten up by boys who called Alsasua's boys for a long time. Well, the members of Citizens went to Alsasua to express our support for the local Civil Guard. How did the kids' friends react? The butcher of Mondragon came to threaten the members of Citizens, surrounded by a kind of tribe of orcs, of Uruk-hai, who threatened us there where we passed, followed us all the time. What did the Socialist Party say at the time? For I quote Ander Gil of the PSOE about this episode: Citizens went to stir up hatred of Alsasua. Don't you see there hatred, animosity, a slight mania? I don't know, didn't you see anything there? Anyway, that's how the PSOE responded to the attacks on my party. Nor have they been very concerned about the aggressions suffered by members of the People's Party, members of VOX or, permanently, the braves of the Navarro People's Union or the victims of ETA, permanently humiliated in this very House. But you don't have to go too far. Yesterday the borrokitos of Bildu beheaded some figures of the king of Spain and of Columbus. You have to be bold and mock - if you want with ka - to say Basque and attack the discovery of America. With Columbus I was already traveling Martínez de Azoque, a lord of Guipúzcoa, and since then there has been not a single Spanish boat that did not have a Basque within: Cristóbal de Oñate, Lope de Legazpi, Pascual de Andagoya, Francisco de Orduña, Juan de Tolosa, Diego de Ibarra, all more Basques than you, all did more for your land than you, brought prosperity and riches there and you worship, lords of Bildu, whom you watered with blood. And going back to hatred, has the PSOE said anything about these constant attacks on the king, the burning of his effigy?, have they said anything?, have they brought here a PNL to condemn those attacks? No, but woe! What happened on June 18, 2020? That a shot-shot lard shot photos of several members of the government and a Member of this House. From Citizens we condemn these facts already in June and condemn them today, it is a totally inconceivable act. Now you see I hate the PSOE, now you ask for convictions in this House. If they had shot photos of members of other parties, would they have presented anything? [[Several Members: Nooo!]] If they had shot a picture of the king, would they have presented something? [[Several Members: Nooo!]] If they had shot photos of the National Police or the Civil Guard, would they have presented anything? And some judge? Have you presented anything for the threats against Judge García-Castellón for asking to impute his very cloaquí Pablo Iglesias? Do I need to list what is constantly being done against these collectives that I have just mentioned to you, gentlemen of the PSOE? Do you see hate here, a little hatred in all this I've told you? [[Several Members: Nooo!]] [[Several Members: Nooo!]] It would be better if they accepted the amendment from the People's Party and then we would vote in favour of them; if not, we would abstain. But also, I want to investigate a little in the explanatory statement, because it seems pernicious to me. You say: we have a model of political organization based on direct suffrage and - they say - parties that are part of the opposition have the possibility to exercise their political action here and different sensitivities can be exercised. Do you relate a shotgun guy to a part of this House's opposition? What's more, do you think shooting photos with a shotgun is a political expression? If so, you spend too much time with Bildu already. Don't be manic, don't insult intelligence, don't want to use a guy like that against opposition, as your perverse statement of motives suggests. I know what they want to show, I give you a clue: all the essences of hatred, all of them, in Spanish politics are related to something: nationalism. If you are concerned about hatred, stand before nationalism; if you are concerned about coexistence, stand before nationalism; if you are concerned about rights and freedoms, stand before nationalism, lords of the Socialist Party. Another question: is a shotgun more dangerous than various types of explosives, timers, detonating cord or detonators? Because, look, a week ago, they arrested three terrorists for storing them in a zulo in Alava. Did you condemn the Government, any partner or any member of the Government who has an ETA explosives warehouse? No, no, In Podemos they condemned the arrest of the terrorists. You want to tell me why you're more worried about a guy with a shotgun, exposed face, playing dumb in a shooting gallery than a terrorist gang that accumulates explosives? [[The lady]] And about the political affiliation of the shotgun guy I'll tell you: here is only one party that has terrorists on their lists, terrorists for whom the fact that they have political motivations in their bloody history is an attenuating, they use it as a whitener. There is only one party here with terrorists and it has no dealings with any of the opposition parties. Here is a party with terrorists with which you reach agreements and offer with champagne, the parties of the government. You know which, gentlemen of the PSOE, to your shame. Thank you very much. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the stand. Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, several of them on the stand.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u154	Thank you, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u155	Thank you, Madam President. We absolutely agree to reject actions such as those reported in the Socialist Party's GNP, which we must understand as a clear threat to people who think, we think, different. It is evident from the speeches we are hearing that the three right-wings will persist in their belligerent attitude and in the spread of hatred. [[Rumors]] The BNG is always at the forefront against these hate speech, in the struggle for democracy, for true democracy and against fascism. But look, fascism is fought not only with statements, but with practice. In addition to their limited GNP, their practice does not always correspond to the spirit they claim to defend, especially when such attitudes affect sovereignist forces. It is also combated by isolating its positions and practices and advancing in rights, in individual and social, but also in collective and national. We must combat homophobic, Machist, xenophobic policies, but at the same time, this recalcitrant Spanishism, which is at the basis of the existence of the ultra-right and which the Galicians, like the Basques or the Catalans, deny us as peoples attacking our language, our culture and our rights. It is not just a question of not going back, it is a question of moving forward, and there none of the forces that contributed to establishing and maintaining the 1978 regime are separated, because they coincide in defending a Constitution that limits democratic rights, especially those that belong to nations, such as the right of self-determination. They are, moreover, practices of the Government which do not conform to that attitude which is in the non-law proposal and which, of course, we would like to see changed. It is that and some other reasons why our vote, together with that of Esquerra, Bildu, Junts or the CUP, is going to be abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u156	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, after having heard you scream as you have so far, I did not know whether to start like this or not, but I will. Protestant pastor Martin Niemöller spent four years in a Nazi concentration camp during World War II and delivered in one of his sermons very self-critical words with the German people for allowing Hitler's rise. I know these words are very handy, but as it seems that many do not listen to them, I will repeat them here today: When the Nazis came to look for the communists I kept silence, because I was not a communist; when they imprisoned the Social Democrats I kept silence, because I was not a Social Democrat; when they came to look for the trade unionists I did not protest, because I was not a trade unionist; when they came to look for the Jews I did not speak, because I was not a Jew; when they finally came to look for me, there was no one else who could protest. These words are also representative of the contemporary history of the Spanish State and of the rise of fascism, both Franco's and the version reconditioned after the years and here present. Perhaps the most notable difference between Germany's post-Third Reich and Spain in 1978 is that in the Spanish state we still expect a Martin Niemöller to make it clear that fascism is not warned, but combated. In Catalonia the alarms of fascism have been ringing strongly for years, day by day fascism attacks and does so with record figures, in 2018 a record number of complaints for alleged hate crimes: 328, almost one complaint a day. From Junts per Catalunya we condemn all attacks and incitements to hatred, everyone, come from whom they come; ladies and gentlemen, do you do so too? Because they've been repeated. Already in April 2019, in the Consistory of Coripe in Andalusia, then ruled by the PSOE, the shooting and burning of a doll who appeared to be President Puigdemont was allowed; that was at one of its popular and religious festivals, and all the examples that have already been mentioned. Where were they then? Where were these instances of coexistence and condemnations of incitement to hatred? Why don't you control the hatred of your patriotic police? Should we ask Martxelo Otamendi, for example? They bring us here today, Socialists, a GNP on the rejection of hatred and fanaticism, however, they also talk about the commitment to democratic coexistence, and the best guarantee of democratic coexistence is respect for democracy, which in Catalonia has not been produced by the Spanish State at least since the 2010 Statut episode. The vote of the Catalans was not respected then because the Constitutional Court decided to cut a text endorsed by the ballot box; the vote of 27 September 2015 was not respected because 155 expelled from the Government whom the votes had chosen; the vote in Catalonia was not respected after 21 December, when the interferences of the Spanish State prevented the investiture of two candidates and the entry into prison of a third party during the investiture debate, and now our vote has not been respected with the disqualification of President Torra by a banner that defends a fundamental right. I'm done, Madam President. So you could apply the concepts and practice more commitment to democratic coexistence. Our vote, along with that of Esquerra Republicana, the CUP, Bildu and the BNG, will be an abstention of punishment. Ladies and gentlemen, listen and learn from Niemöller, history shows us that after the 'go for them!' There's always a 'a' coming for us!'. It seems to me that Pablo Iglesias should know what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u159	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Let us comment on this exercise of homeopathy against fascism that you present here today. A preview because it seemed to me to hear you, Mr.Siancas, that you came to say that fascism is emboldened or pissed off by the exhumation, or supposed exhumation, of Francisco Franco del Valle de los Fallidos. Man, it took forty years and more than an exhumation was a state funeral. I think fascism is not angry or emboldened by it, in fact it has been doing exactly the same for forty years. You present this today, this PNL against fascism, and it is appropriate - I believe - to do a memory exercise that has already done one of my colleagues, but I will repeat it. From this same year, in May, VOX is the only one who has the balls to say the clear things: Collects, we're going to kick you out of the country. Members of Jusapol at the door of Congress. What happened? What happened? June. Out of Spain, Catalan bitch! Three Nazis to our companion Anna Barnadas in the streets of Barcelona. What happened? It will certainly be possible to combat this with GNP today. What happened? July. You miserable rat! Motorized cockroach! It's easier to give you a shot than two shots. Eloy Valero, councillor of the People's Party of a people of Zaragoza to Pablo Echenique and Pablo Iglesias respectively. What happened? Nothing. July. Bitch! Golfa! Fucking red! Protaurino protesters to Minister Yolanda Díaz for leaving the bullfighters out of the artists' aid. That you'll tell me that you have to kill a cowardly animal in the middle of a square! What happened? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] August. You shitty faggot! In a bar from Cadiz to Juan Carlos Monedero. What happened? August too. When Irene Montero and Pablo Iglesias announce to which school their children go, I will take mine to inflate them to hostias. Abnormal every day at the doors of the vice president's house and the minister in Galapagar. What happened? October 2019, let's go a little further. You have to get rid of TV3, it's a power plant. Lamban. This one falls closer to you, President of Zaragoza. [[Rumors.-Several Members: De Aragon]] I'm sorry, from Aragon. Calm down, calm down! What happened? May 2018. You'll see how they put the bear. The National Police in front of the van that was taking our fellow Oriol Junqueras. What happened? Absolutely nothing. [[Rumors]] And I'm not going to talk about Borrell, his partner Borrell, because I have very little time left and he deserves a whole day. Look, the lefts don't have the vaccine against the virus, but we do have it against fascism and it's not this PNL, it's the BOE. There is no greater anti-fascist exercise than the one you miss and don't do every Tuesday at the BOE. That is why, together with Bildu's colleagues, Junts per Catalunya, the CUP and the Galego Nationalist Block, we say enough and we exercise an abstention of punishment because hatred does not need its hypocrisy. These people get confused with their hypocrisy and it's a very bad time for them, by the way. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] They need your courage. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u160	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u161	Thank you very much, President. What an exercise of cynicism we have just seen from the Spanish right! I liked the expression of the PNV deputy in which he proposed to dive in the waters from which this is fed. I'm going to start by explaining to the Deputy Citizen why we care so much about a gentleman who shoots pictures of members of the government. The man who simulated the execution of Pablo Echenique, Irene Montero, Pablo Iglesias, Pedro Sánchez or Fernando Grande-Marlaska has been placed in neo-Nazi environments. One might think that this is random, that it is an isolated fact, but, Your Honor, this data is not baladi, it is dramatically revealing. Radicalization and extreme right-wing terrorism are real and on the rise. [[Rumors]] The ultra-rightist attacks, ladies and gentlemen, have increased by 320 % in Europe, North America and Oceania over the past five years. The growing concern about this phenomenon, which is already international... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u162	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u163	...is reflected in the debates at European level. Without going further, this was one of the issues discussed in the Europol Parliamentary Control Group, just a few weeks ago, in which I participated together with other members of this House. And do you know why you're so worried? Because it is one of the biggest security threats in Europe. If we pay attention in Spain, what do we see? We see the video of a gentleman shooting at the photographs of the members of the government and of the spokesman for my parliamentary group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common. We've seen how they arrested a sniper who threatened to shoot Sanchez in a VOX chat. [[Rumors]] We have seen that people on the extreme right were harbouring the house of the Vice President and the Minister of Equality, daily, with three young children. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u164	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u165	And we have come to see the dismantling of a clandestine workshop that housed the largest arsenal of explosive devices, 17, and 26 firearms, of a gentleman who advocated Francoism. Do you know what the propaganda he was broadcasting on his social networks was about, too? VOX. I could exhaust my time by setting examples. [[Rumors]] The last thing we've seen... [[Rumors]] You're a little uncomfortable with this, aren't you? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u167	The last thing we have seen is no longer an action on the part of the VOX orbit, but VOX itself, taking as a gander reference the camel of a seer, threatening the government and claiming the paintings in the statue of Largo Caballero, painted loaded with hatred. Congresswoman Olona, who is not here, has taken a picture with that statue, which I don't know if she's going to frame it and put it in her house. I don't know if that's the education and the example they want to give their children. I can understand the nostalgia that some people have, because they lived very well during the Franco dictatorship, at the cost of many lives, everything has to be said, but I find it inevitable to think of their children, who already live in a democratic, peaceful society, where values of respect and tolerance are instilled. Now you come to applaud violence, to applaud hatred and to suggest that the dictatorship was better than a democratic government. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is natural to disagree in almost all matters in democracy, but never in this one. Democracy and the exaltation of violence are opposite paths. Citizenship demands, unanimously, that we take the first, because the second is nothing more and nothing less than the essence of fascism. And if facts like these impress us so much, it is precisely why they are extraordinary, but we must not underestimate their ability to poison society. We have the example of the United States, with Donald Trump, the international leader of VOX, where there are militias of armed lunatics up to their teeth assaulting official buildings and planning the kidnapping of governors who are not his liking. Unfortunately, in Spain we have suffered attacks from the extreme right that have ended the lives of people already in democracy, already in democracy. We don't forget either Guillem Aguló or Carlos Javier Palomino or Susana Ruiz. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u168	Mrs. Muñoz, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u169	I'm done. We know how far the extreme right can go and, therefore, we are going to vote in favour of this GNP, which could go further, could go further, but that does not invalidate it. Finally, I would like to ask you a question, particularly those of the abstention group and the proposing group, so that we can reflect on it. I do not know whether we are clear in this House: where do hate crimes end and where do radicalisation and extreme right-wing terrorism begin, ladies and gentlemen? We have to answer this question. Thank you very much. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u170	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. Mr Simancas, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u171	We accept that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of course. [[Laughter]] Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u172	All right, thank you very much, you will vote on those terms. We vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. First, we voted to take into consideration the proposed law of the Parliament of Catalonia amending Law 52/2007 of 26 December 2007 which recognizes and expands rights and establishes measures for those who suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 103 plus 247 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 72 plus 136 telematics votes, 208; against, 53 telematics votes; abstentions, 31 plus 58 telematics votes, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u174	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u175	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, for the coordination of the services of prevention, fire extinguishment and rescue of the framework of the National System of Civil Protection. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 103 plus 247 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 102 plus 207 telematics votes, 309; against, 1 plus 34 telematics votes, 35; abstentions, 6 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-13-CD201013.u176	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good night. It was nine o'clock at night.
