ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, having completed the vote on the remaining amendments, from section 28, including, in connection with the Commission's opinion on the draft State General Budgets Act for 2021, I would like to inform you that the compromise amendments 40 to 54 have been adopted. The result of all the votes for these amendments will be published on the House's website, in accordance with the usual procedure, and will be appended to the minutes of this sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that from 9:15 a.m. to 10:45 a.m. today the opinions of the various parts of the draft State Budgets Act for the year 2021 can be voted on electronically. The oral vote on the opinions will take place at the end of the sitting. - Draft Law on General Budgets of the State for the Year 2021. [[CONTINUATION]] [[File number 121/000035]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u2	We continue with the debate on sections 01 to 05, 08 and 09. Mr García Adanero has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group to fix positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, Madam President, first of all, today, 3 December, the feast of San Francisco Javier, the patron saint of Navarre, to send a warm greeting and a congratulations to all my Sections 01 to 05, 08 and 09 connecinoes of the Foral Community of Navarre and all those navarros and navarras that throughout the world are on such a day as today, and especially those who dedicate their daily lives in the most hidden places in the world to help those who have been most disadvantaged by society. [[applause]] A greeting to all of them and many thanks to all of you. Well, we have already reached the end of the budget and to celebrate it those who are going to vote in favour, Euskal Herria Bildu, to celebrate this budget has already organized on December 6th a demonstration against the oppressive state - referring to Spain, not Venezuela -, in favour of freedoms - those that we must not have, referring also to Spain and not to Cuba -, in favour of the prisoners - of the murderers, of those who were killing forty years in Spain - and in favour of the Basque Republic with the annexation of Navarre - not counting its citizens - included. That is the celebration that will take place on 6 December next Euskal Herria Bildu to celebrate these budgets. I'm going to focus on Navarra's annexation. It is outrageous that we have to endure day and day the annexation by political parties such as the Basque Nationalist Party and Euskal Herria Bildu and that by the Socialist Party and that by the President of the Government of Navarre nothing is said. At the moment, the Spanish Constitution allows, if you want, a referendum to be held in Navarre for its incorporation into the Basque Autonomous Community; this is allowed today by the Spanish Constitution, we are against it, but it is allowed. Therefore, all the threats, everything that is said, everything that is to be done, can be done by democratic channels, but it is not wanted because the votes are lost, because it is known that the people of Navarre are clearly opposed to annexation to the Basque Autonomous Community. For forty years they have tried and failed to do so; democratically they will not do so either. So, do you want to leave the shipowners alone with the annexation? Isn't it good for them to run their own community? They want to let us live in peace? [[Applauds]] And that the Socialist Party - for a budget exercise that could have been approved with other votes - is putting up with all this, with what has been its historical legacy, is regrettable. Let us hope that at last someone from the Socialist Party will make it clear that Navarra is an outside community integrated in Spain, in solidarity with all its peoples and proud to belong to this great country that is Spain, even if you want to start your overthrow with this budget. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u4	Thank you, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Joint Parliamentary Group too, and lastly, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u5	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. There is a very famous music group in Catalonia, which has a song called I want to be king, and it says: If it is certain that we are the same before the law, why I can never be king. If it is true that we are equal before the law, why can I never be king. I have made a small adaptation to the letter for the decorum of the House, I hope that Lluís Gavaldà and his band will forgive me. It is that the monarchy - and, moreover, the Spanish one - from our perspective is more of an absolutist regime than what should be a parliamentary democracy. No one voted for this gentleman and his family, and yet this gentleman is the head of state. We have no capacity for parliamentary control, citizens will remember that every time there is a scandal of corruption - to the international press, because not here - and the international courts try to judge the emeritus king, here a parliamentary commission is asked and vetoed, never gets anywhere, you can never talk about what happens to the corruption of the monarchy in this room. And besides, it is vetoed by the Constitution, we cannot control the king of Spain. Look, today that we talk about budgets, this gentleman - he is family because they are a whole family, with his entourage and his workers - these gentlemen charge 23 000 euros a day - I insist, every day -. Do you remember how much the interprofessional minimum wage is? Ah, that doesn't reach a thousand euros a month! And not only that, but also that some judges decide to protect the privilege of the monarchy by persecuting artists who criticize the monarchy and who specifically criticize the systematic scandals of corruption of the monarchy. In fact, there are people in exile to say that the Bourbons are thieves. But the show doesn't end here. The most progressive government in history with the PSOE and the United We can, the second accredited Republicans, not only keep the departure, but raise the salary to the king of Spain. It will be for the rise of the CPI, as with pensions, the same. The PSOE, the always guardian of the regime of 78 and also of the monarchy. But the show does not end here, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, with much discretion, presents an amendment to the whole part of the monarchy's budgets to withdraw the budget allocation and what happens? That the right-wing gentlemen vote in mass for the amendment to bring down the budgets. Citizens alike do not know this, but if a single package of these budgets falls, they are returned to the government. What's Republican Left doing? It withdraws it, of course, because the budgets have to be approved. [[Rumors]] This would be funny - we find it funny that people on the right vote to withdraw the monarch's budget allocation, we actually love it - if not because the Royal House is untouchable, because these gentlemen charge 23 000 euros a day in the midst of a brutal economic crisis and because, let us remember, this gentleman and his father is put by a dictator, Mr Francisco Franco. So we have nothing but to say here peace and then glory.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u7	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone, already on the last day of this budget marathon. Firstly, I would like to say that, in relation to what we are dealing with, which are the sections for the first volume of the budgets, my parliamentary group is going to vote against all the sections. It is going to vote that not all sections because, as those who are more veterans know well than I in this House, there is no final vote on the whole budget and the way in which the parliamentary groups express ours is not precisely making this vote against each of the sections. Mr Simancas was affronting us with this conduct in relation to the Royal House and I believe that no one will be deceived about the loyalty that my parliamentary group has to the constitutional system not only with regard to the Royal House, but also with regard to the General Council of the Judiciary, the Constitutional Court, the Central Electoral Board and the rest of the high institutions of the State, unlike what happens to other parliamentary groups, which, it is those who vote yes to this budget and it is those who propose amendments to the return, which have withdrawn, as Mrs Vehí has rightly pointed out, indeed, in the Royal House, in the Constitutional Court, in the defence budget and in the internal budget, which is what Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia has done. But, of course, what a fear that someone would arrive here today and we would all urge ourselves to support the Republican Left of Catalonia's return amendment, and that is why yesterday afternoon Esquerra withdraws this return amendment, once it has already come to such ignominious dealings with the Socialist Party and with the United States We can move these budgets forward. It has become very clear what my party has done in these budgets, has reached out, has tried to be useful and you, gentlemen of the Government, have made an ethically unacceptable decision because it is arithmetically unnecessary. Today everyone knows it, millions of the eyes of Spanish citizens know it and many socialists who believe in the unity of the state find themselves orphans of political representation as people like Felipe González and many others have said precisely because you have freely chosen to approve these budgets with Bildu, the heirs of ETA, those who supported the terrorist gang, and with Squerra Republicana de Catalunya, that what you want is to break the unity of the state. This is very clearly demonstrated in the return amendment tabled to these sections by Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. The arguments for lowering the budgets of the Royal House have already been put forward by the representative of the CUP in an absolutely unacceptable way, but very correct in relation to the thought of the Republican Left of Catalonia. They constantly give us the baton with the Emeritus king, with whom he has not been elected and, well, why think that in 1978 the Spaniards gave us a Constitution that was voted - it was voted - by the majority of the Spanish people, who wanted the form of the state as a parliamentary monarchy. Do not, therefore, use sophisms or insult other advanced countries in our environment, which have, precisely, the monarchy as the form of the Head of State. Above all, I draw more attention to how the Republican Left of Catalonia proposes this refund amendment, which it withdraws yesterday afternoon, with regard to the Constitutional Court. He said that he was a fascist organization that repressed fundamental rights, among which it was understood that there was the right to self-determination of peoples, which was not even accepted in international law, and that was why he wanted the Constitutional Court to have no budget. I understand this logical mechanism of the Republican Left of Catalonia, which shows that it is an anti-system party, a party that wants to disobey the law. That is why their leaders are in prison, for having disobeyed the law and the mandates of the Constitutional Court. Instead of presenting his republican ideal within the law, rather than being brave and bringing here to the House, which is where things should be discussed, a proposal for reform of the Constitution, in accordance with constitutional procedures, on the side of cowardice what he claims is that no money is given to the Constitutional Court, which ultimately extinguishes the Constitutional Court by starvation. Of course, because it's a party installed in disobedience. I believe that today, when we got up and put on the radio this morning, no one will have been surprised by that proposal from the friends of Esquerra, that proposal of the United Nations. We can say that his majesty the king asks for forgiveness in his speech of Christmas Buena for the speech he made demanding the enforcement of the law on October 3, simply because in Catalonia a coup d'état was perpetrated against the Spanish Constitution, disobeying the mandates of the Constitutional Court and the Superior Court of Justice of Catalonia. These are their travel partners, lords of the Socialist Party, who are not going to come to the tribute to the Constitution on 6 December, who are going to organize demonstrations against Spain, who say they vote yes to the budgets as a first step towards the independence of Euskal Herria, who pay tribute to the murderers, as Mr García Adanero has said. These are your travel partners, who have freely chosen. And I know that, although all of you will vote disciplinedly for what you have told them to vote, many today are sad because they wanted these budgets to go out with Citizens and not with Bildu or Republican Left of Catalonia. Of course today, as my companion, María Muñoz, said yesterday from this rostrum, is a day of pity for Spain. I'm so sorry. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u8	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos - Galicia in common, Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u9	Thank you, President. Good morning. In 1931 Maria Lejárraga, then a member of the Socialist Party, gave classes and talks at the Madrid Athenaeum to middle-class women who were suspicious of the new political system and the new political reality that existed at the time. She explained to them that the republic was the only thing that assured them that they could be who they really wanted to be, that those who wanted to be mothers would be, that those who did not want to be, that those who had ambition would have enough to be able to develop their goals, that those who wanted to tie their shoulders would have a job and not lack it, that those who wanted to form would not lack the right. Those principles that governed what María Lejárraga explained then are the principles of freedom, equality and fraternity on which these General Budgets of the State are also based. These are general state budgets which increase by 150% in investment in public health, 70 % in education, 157% in equality policies, 80 % in research, 22 % in university scholarships, 30 % in employment promotion, 60 % in the fight against child poverty, 70 % in social services, 5 % in Iprem and 0 % in the Royal House. [[Applauds]] Freedom, equality and also sorority are the highest that the United We can and we do not hide our position, because we are a republican force and we are certain that we are moving towards a feminist republic, just, guaranteeing public services and democratic values that were achieved in all the struggles that have preceded us. Likewise, this group is aware of the place it occupies today in the Government and that is why we will continue to build incessantly that republican horizon guaranteeing full citizenship for all people, because - and they will allow me to quote Dolores Ibarruri - we understand that this is the only way. Thank you very much. Cheers.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u11	With the venom. Sections relating to constitutional organs, House of His Majesty the King without increment since 2018. It imports the budget of expenditure close to 8 million and, compared to an average increase of 41% in ministries and constitutional bodies other than the Royal House, there is a lack of increase. There has been a progressive cut since 2006. Already in that year the budget imported 8 million. Assignments to the royal family, which are exclusively at this time their majesty the kings and their majesty Queen Doña Sofia - I say to the representative of the Republican Parliamentary Group -, only 9 % of the total budget of the house. By the way, there are more than €7 million additional that respond to the concept of support for the administrative management of the Head of State from the budget of the Ministry of Presidency. This is dubiously in accordance with article 65.1 of the Constitution, which recognizes the autonomy of his majesty the king for the distribution and management of the budget of his house. We can be told that there was before. Well, if there were before, it can be modified and corrected if this practice is truly inconsistent with that constitutional requirement. But the most important thing and what I want to highlight most is: what is this, a mode of control of the Head of State by the Executive Power through the provision of economic means or not provision? We do not believe that this practice is acceptable and should be amended; therefore, we believe that this law should be followed in this order. Section 02. General Courts. More than €236 million in expenditure budget. Totally excessive, and more in an exercise that is going to be characterized by economic depression. Is this budget not to be reduced? Is it not considered by the Government and this Parliament, if this law is passed, that there are other more important and urgent needs, a fortiori if we take into account that this budget has also been increased? Only for Congress, in which we are at this moment and from whose rostrum I speak, the increase is greater than 11%. Thirty-seven commissions, up to thirty-eight with that of Reconstruction, compared to thirty-four of the previous legislature. By the way, the remuneration of the staff in the service of this house is 144 million euros, an increase of about 7%. With regard to the remuneration of Members, there was an attempt, as is known, to increase it, but it failed; and it failed because the group on whose behalf I am speaking opposed and the rest of the groups rushed to decline from their previous position in favour of that increase. [[Applauds]] To compensate potential staff, 14.5 million expenditure budgets, representing an increase of 27.85 per cent. Either any staff is reduced or abolished, and Members and Senators are more likely to work. [[applause.-Rumores.-Mr. Postigo Quintana utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u12	Quiet, please. Mr. Postigo, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u13	By the way, to that deputy of the People's Party who is part of the hard succession of Mrs Cayetana, who is a Chilean Galician deputy and who leaves the Galicians in bad place, I remind her that the work of the People's Parliamentary Group is inferior throughout the legislature to that of the VOX Group... [[rumors]] [[Rumors.-Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u14	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u15	In proportion, you work less than half. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Machist!]] Yeah, I know this is machismo. By the way, since Doña Cuca is present, she can then come out and tell me. [[Rumors]] The PSOE and the People's Party have made democracy very expensive for forty years, and it doesn't have to be so... [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u17	You guys have... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u18	I'm asking for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u19	You, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, have committed an abuse, and continue to engage in it, but you do not know that the Spanish have already understood this abuse and that you are completely fed up, and you continue in that attitude. That need for democracy is borne by taxpayers, and you are alien to their difficulties and even their suffering. It is the economic facet of the partyocracy and the iron law of the oligarchy applied to the parties, which already denounced Michels in 1911 in his classic work. Politics, through the parties, as a means of life, does not exactly absolve those who are probably unable to earn it otherwise. [[Applauds]] Section 03. Court of Auditors. It co-exists with similar public accounts control bodies. We oppose the existence of these, both in Catalonia and Madrid. The budget of both, in addition, imports about 20 million euros. Constitutional Court, over 26 million euros. What is striking is the abandonment of its functions, the delay in the issuance of sentences - for example, in the appeal of unconstitutionality against the Law on Reform of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, four years, or in the case of Law 2/2010, in the matter of voluntary interruption of pregnancy, the appeal of unconstitutionality, after ten years of having been established, remains unresolved - and the politicization of this court, configured as a political organ by the Constitution and politicized until nausea by the parties that have turned, PSOE and the People's Party! [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u20	Mr. Sanchez, your time is up. Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Uriarte Bengoechea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u21	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the sections we are discussing here are only 0.48% of the budget, very little, and yet they represent the central institutions of our democracy, such as these very General Courts, our parliamentary monarchy, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors, the Council of State and the General Council of the Judiciary. Mr Sánchez, by the way, you could have used your minutes to support these institutions instead of attacking the Members of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, the health of our democracy depends on the health of these institutions, and this is not a matter of money, as I have just reminded you, it is a matter of firm and clear support for the mimes, and the problem of these budgets is that their pacts cast doubt on the support of these institutions, and leave it in doubt because half of the government - the United We can - puts them in question. The Socialist Party itself joined the question yesterday when it submitted another bill to control the General Council of the Judiciary. And what about the independence parties, with whom you have agreed these budgets, which question these institutions head-on, starting with the parliamentary monarchy. Yesterday the Vice-President of the Government, Carmen Calvo, said right here, from this rostrum - I open quotes -: These budgets are the best guarantee for the constitutional development of one of the great democracies of the world - I close quotes -. The first Vice-President, who had been boycotting the Constitutional Commission for months, said that she laughed at the Constitutional Commission. [[Applauds]] For not putting, he doesn't make excuses; he doesn't come to the Commission because he doesn't want to. And the first vice-president, who has Mr. Pablo Iglesias as second vice-president, says that she wants to overthrow this constitutional regime. And it's that maybe yesterday Carmen Calvo got confused and what he meant instead of constitutional development is constitutional overthrow, because that second vice president with whom he shares Government has repeated over and over again that he wants to end our parliamentary monarchy, and he says it with the same arguments that EH Bildu and Esquerra Republicana use. Mr Iglesias said two months ago - yesterday he reiterated it - very clearly before his party that he wants to advance - I quote - towards a republican horizon that deepens Spanish democracy. What a contradiction, a communist talking about democracy; what a contradiction. [[Applauds]] Mrs Velarde, from Unidad Podemos, said yesterday, right here too, that you, the Unidad Podemos, are here to defeat Fascist culture. I encourage you to also defeat communist culture, yours, and I also encourage you to defeat coup culture, because, ladies and gentlemen, those cultures have led you to deliberately ignore the democratic systems of the world and the role of the parliamentary monarchy in those systems. Does it seem to you, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations that the monarchies of Norway, Sweden, Denmark, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Belgium have any problems of democratic quality? Do you know that parliamentary monarchies are among the most advanced democratic systems in the world? Do you know which is the most advanced democracy in the world, according to the prestigious classification of The Economist? Norway, a parliamentary monarchy. I, in fact, imagine you campaigning in Norway to overthrow the parliamentary monarchy, as you do here. I'll give you another classification. Do you know which is the first country in human development, according to the United Nations index? Again, Norway, a parliamentary monarchy. The ten parliamentary monarchies of Europe, ladies and gentlemen, are among the first places in the United Nations human development index, that is, parliamentary monarchy is equal to advanced and full democracy. [[Applauds]] It is a model of success, ladies and gentlemen, it is one of the axes of the fortress of Spain and that is why the independenceist parties and the communists are so disgusted. Government partners are also left with the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, and it is important to remember it when we are three days away from celebrating the 42nd anniversary of our Constitution, which is the same as the 42nd anniversary of a successful history of our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you will approve the budgets, yes, but you will do so in exchange for pacts with those who want to end those forty-two years of success of our democracy, and I fear that this will remind you, with this sad coincidence in the calendar, of a three-day approval of the budgets to celebrate the success story of our democracy with partners who want to end the Constitution that strengthens and bases this democratic system of success - forty-two years - in our country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u22	Thank you very much, Mrs. Uriarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Meijón Couselo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u23	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, the budgets of the sections to which this section is devoted are intended to ensure the proper functioning of those institutions which make up our current constitutional framework. The few amendments - some withdrawals - presented to these sections, specifically to the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional, the General Council of the Judiciary or the Royal House, respond more to a gesture or a political discourse... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u24	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u25	...that to amendments as such. Thank you, President. Accepting those amendments would mean no more or less that the institutions concerned would de facto disappear, and that is something that, as you can well imagine, we do not agree with at all. Much has been said these days of democratic quality. Well, the democratic quality of our country is also measured by providing the institutions with the necessary economic resources to carry out their functions. Among these sections is also the King's House, from which it is erroneously indicated that its budget allocation is increased, when it has already been explained that the apparent increase corresponds to budgetary adjustments from previous years that were not made. Mr. Bal, if you're worth your kafkiana explanation, that's right, but I'll stick with my partner Simancas' explanations. [[Applauds]] I see, Mr Bal, moreover, that you do not care who to deal with - with ERC - if that is to harm the government; it is worth any kind of pact if it is to harm the government. [[Mr. Bal makes negative gestures.]] By the way, we also know about the purity of VOX. I will talk about the purity of VOX simply with two examples: the leader of VOX in Tarragona, adviser to the Diputación de Zaragoza, which is next door; the leader of VOX in Girona, adviser to the Valencian Courts, which are also next door. It seems, seeing the amendments and especially their justification, that there are those who intend to change our constitutional model through amendments, which is talking about an impossible one. What matters here today is exclusively to discuss the budgets of these sections. I would recommend - I say this with a kind smile - that, if you insist on introducing questions that do not touch, although I do not doubt the relevance that you may have to you, apply the second and little known theorem of Tales, which says that such questions are not addressed here. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] We understand that the budgets for these sections are reasonable and sensible and have the favourable vote of our group; they are also inserted in a budgetary framework - it has been said many times - which seeks to save people in crisis and pandemic situations. It might seem that this is why we are dealing with short-term budgets, but nothing further from reality; we are dealing with budgets that seek to achieve those structural reforms that are necessary for our country. For what? To restore and enhance our welfare state model, badly damaged by budgets of a right that never cut by necessity, but with the aim of obtaining public welfare services privatizing excellence; a welfare state that, in addition to betting on traditional public services - education or health -, consolidates aid to dependency, minimum living income, sustainability of pensions and the rights of workers and self-employed; also, how not and notably, strengthens the fight against gender violence or child poverty and, how not, the transformation and modernization of our current productive model, providing it with greater strength and resilience. In short, they are good budgets to meet the current situation, but at the same time taking on the structural changes that this country needs. Now let me - almost all of you have - make a brief reference to my book. Mr Rego, wherever you are, you have not been cut off in questioning the Galician Members of our group and directly to my person. Allow me to ask you too, to allude to what I call irresponsibility, if not frivolity: your amendment to these budgets as a whole. You have been repeating, Mr Rego, a regular leit moment: everything goes in the right direction, but it is insufficient. That has served him not to support the conclusions of the Reconstruction Commission, not to support the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, not to support the Education Act, and presumably not to support these budgets, that is, for nothing to go forward. [[Applauds]] Instead of joining the forces of progress, you and your party have been betting on an amendment to the whole of it - and you, Mr Rego, know it - in the best case to continue with Montoro's budgets, when you do not give up the European funds and paralyse the recovery of this country in the midst of the greatest health, social and economic crisis that is remembered. What are they to you, Mr. Rego? Side effects? Or are you going to tell me, Mr. Rego, that they were a joke? What was I kidding? That it was pure posture? That you already knew that your amendment to the whole did not go out, and then, therefore, to negotiate as if such a thing? Fortunately, the forces of progress have not followed their example and have remained, we have remained and we have managed to save their amendment to the whole, that of VOX, that of the PP and some more; forces of progress that I am sure would want other figures and perhaps in different directions - by the way, I too would like to get my hands on the budgets - but that they have understood - we have understood - that it was an extraordinary moment and therefore we should work together trying to reach agreements and thus bring forward extraordinary budgets for an exceptional time. With your amendment to the whole, gentlemen of the BNG, Mr Rego, you have deleted yourself from the map, and believe me I am sorry. And it's not worth the 'Spain steals us' that you seem to want to introduce in Galicia, and it's not worth - and you know it well, wherever it is - because it's simply false: accounts against tales. As my colleague Ana Prieto said yesterday, I am proud, as a Galician, and are my fellow Galicians in the Socialist Group, to vote in favour of these budgets. Much work remains to be done between own funds and European funds to define and address the strategic projects that our country, Galicia and Spain needs. And believe me, Mr Rego, wherever you are, I tell you in a sincere and cordial way: for this task, to build, to add always we will be waiting for you, today too. I wish it were. That's all. Kiss. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Meijón. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mrs. Vázquez Blanco asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Vazquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u27	Thank you, Madam President. By article 71, for personal allusions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u28	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u29	Thank you so much. Mr VOX, it's very cowardly that while I'm attending to a media outlet out there you're devoting yourself to insulting me. I know you're upset because you still don't know how to return the EUR 212,000 you've paid without doing anything during these two weeks. I know that you are angry with me, because I reminded you that there were thirty amendments that could have gone ahead and that you did not go out because you were not. That cowardice you have to explain to the rest of the Spaniards who owe the money to. Finally, see if the Galicians of this Member who has been the most voted in Spain, along with my colleague Celso Delgado, are proud. [[Applauds]] The most voted in Spain. Lessons here, not one, because I hear how you talk about Members who charge diets and so on, when twenty Members of you have housing in Madrid and are deputies by other constituencies. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u30	Mrs. Vazquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u31	Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u32	Thank you very much. We move on to the debate on sections 35, Contingency Fund; 36, Interterritorial Clearing Funds; and 37, Other financial relations with territorial entities. In defence of amendments, Mr Castellón Rubio has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u33	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning we had breakfast with a new attack on the independence of the judiciary. The truth is that someone could hardly imagine a few months ago that a president of the Government of Spain could go so far in his quest to control all the springs of power and try to stay in it at all costs. What we are witnessing in the last three days is but the colophon of a genuine agenda of pernicious rupture that has the President of the Government as his main material author. A prison policy that benefits those sentenced for murder, pardons and the Penal Code a la carte, the elimination of the Spanish as a common language of all Spaniards and the attack on all the autonomy that you do not govern, socialist gentlemen, are some of the concessions that the Spanish will have to endure in order for Pedro Sánchez to spend his ego in the Falcon for the next three years in Spain. In discussing the sections we are dealing with today, we should be discussing the allocation of extraordinary resources in the State General Budgets aimed at correcting some of the territorial imbalances in Spain; territorial policy, by the way, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, which should be formulated here, which should be voted here and not dealt with in the vis-à-vis Mr Rufián when he visits the prison in Estremera. [[Applauds]] My group, the Group of the European People's Party, has put forward some amendments in order to ensure the financial adequacy of various spending policies that are currently taking on autonomous communities and municipalities; amendments that have mostly been vetoed by the Government so that we cannot vote on them in this House today. But, ladies and gentlemen, when the PSOE and Podemos governments veto the Group of the European People's Party's amendments to set up a social reconstruction fund for the EUR 4 billion municipalities, they are not vetoing the People's Party, what is vetoing is the possibility of many municipalities having funds to fight the queues of hunger that our towns and villages are facing as a result of the economic ruin that is entailing the disastrous health management of the Socialist Party. What the Government is vetoing is funding for municipalities to fund family and child-care checks programmes, to support municipal reception centres, to cover the distribution of health-care materials among those who cannot afford it. When the Government vetoes an amendment to ensure that the autonomous communities that are suffering a growing and suffocating migratory pressure receive a fund of EUR 50 million to compensate for their lack of resources, what it is vetoing is communities such as the Canary Islands and Murcia, which use their own financial resources to face a competition that is not theirs, to face a genuine migration avalanche that is filling our streets with immigrants who, after playing their lives at sea to get to our shores, wander without economic means, without material means or health protection, which endangers their own lives and also those of the police, health-care workers and officials who take care of them and who work overwhelmed. And all this without the slightest help from a government looking elsewhere, from an insensitive government to a crisis like this, unprecedented, perhaps because the sensibility, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, has worn you off from so much hugging Bildu. Ladies and gentlemen, with the frustrated record of a few weeks ago, when you tried to expropriate your remaining municipalities, we hoped that you would oppose your vote - although you have done so with your veto - on our proposal to involve local authorities in 14% of the funds. Sections 35, Contingency Fund; 36, Interterritorial Compensation Funds; and 37, Other financial relations with European territorial reconstruction institutions. We already know that you are more in favour of Pedro Sánchez and Ivan Redondo sharing them at the table of the Moncloa. You have vetoed the increase of a transport subsidy fund for local authorities of EUR 1 billion; you have vetoed a departure from the autonomous communities to establish aid for the closure of business and hospitality activities; you have vetoed a proposal to establish an inter-territorial educational cohesion fund. If we have asked you more funds to coordinate education when you have passed a law that eliminates the main cohesive element of our educational system, as is the common language of all Spaniards, it is because perhaps until recently we had not fallen into that you were some of the participants in that road map of Mr. Iglesias, which consists in flying through the air any element that makes us Spanish free and equal. [[Applauds]] And while all these amendments have been vetoed by the Government so that they cannot be voted on and discussed here, we have had to attend the discussion of amendments such as, for example, those aimed at emptying the funds of the Ministry of Defence or the CNI, presented by the Republican Left. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, with the overrun of this budget law, with your vetoes you have tried to gag the opposition, especially that only political option which has presented an alternative budget in the form of 1500 amendments of which you have not approved one. This is the budget of the massive rise in taxes on families, that of the debt freed up, that of the cuts in the next ten years, that of the false tax revenues or that of unemployment, but it is also the budget in which their contempt, their pride and their contradictions with the values that they defended until just five minutes ago have been fairly well portrayed. There will be budgets, yes - I do not know whether to congratulate them, ladies and gentlemen - budgets in exchange for dragging the dignity of the oldest nation in Europe through the mud of the indecency of their pacts with which they want to destroy our coexistence. [[Applauds]] No, congratulations no, ladies and gentlemen; no, because there will be budgets and there will be government, but there will be no hope - they have stolen it from us - there will be no equality and neither will there be dignity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u34	Thank you, Mr. Castellón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gimeno has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, which is Article 158 of the Spanish Constitution, is the only instrument our Constitution contains to correct territorial imbalances and to give effect to the principle of solidarity, and it is paradigmatic that since 1990 it has left the province of Teruel. Between 1980 and 1990, this fund was distributed among all the autonomous communities, especially in the most disadvantaged areas of Spain, including Teruel, and served to finance the transfers to the autonomous communities, but in the 1990 reform, in which to adapt it to the same criterion as the European funds was adopted as a criterion for the distribution between the autonomous communities of GDP/inhabitant, the province was excluded. We have already repeated many times in this forum that, as experts have shown, the GDP/inhabitant criterion is only valid as an economic parameter when analysing growth situations. When there is depopulation it is not valid, because what it does is decrease the number between which it is divided, and every time it is lost population, it indicates that the territory is richer when the reality is the opposite. In this curious way, by applying this GDP/inhabitant criterion in the 1990 reform, Teruel spent a day of being a zone of preferential investment because of its depopulation to be excluded from it. This exclusion was so shocking that the preamble to the 1990 Act itself reflected the problematic situation in our province and the need for exceptional measures, with a commitment from the Government to respond, he said, because of its specificity and sufficient amount and as soon as possible. There was then another reform, the 2001 reform, which included the cities of Ceuta and Melilla, but made disappear from a pen this annoying preamble in which the law reminded Governments of Teruel's exclusion from the only constitutional instrument of rebalancing. The Teruel Investment Fund, known as the FITE, was established in 1993 to compensate for its exclusion from both the European Objective 1 funds and the Interterritorial Compensation Fund. This fund is financed at 50% between the State and the Autonomous Community. But I'm going to give you a single brush stroke to see if the governments have really compensated Teruel province with that fund. In twenty-seven years of validity - until 2019, because this year's one has not yet been signed - the province of Teruel has received on paper about 11.0 billion euros. However, of the European funds from which it was excluded, only in six years, for example between 2000 and 2006, each beneficiary province received about 1800 - this only from European funds - to which was added the proceeds from the Interterritorial Compensation Fund. In other words, what Teruel received does not reach even an eighth of what he would have had. In January 2001, Teruel Existe sent all the deputies and senators of the nation a letter together with the report on the distribution of the European structural funds and the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, asking for awareness of the real situation of the province and serious consideration of its demands for a state consensus to reduce the huge resource gap that the province was suffering. In short, it is the solidarity that the Governments of Spain have had with the unpopulated territories such as Teruel: oblivion and marginalization, despite recognizing even in their laws and preambles their needs. With this data it is evident that the economic marginalization or the oblivion of the province of Teruel has been both of the governments of Spain and of the European institutions, that this political inaction sustained during these thirty years has maintained the atoning of activities and a retrograde demography, and that the demographic forecasts of the INE announce the loss of population for the next fifteen years. To avoid this, in order to correct this marginalization, we have asked in our amendments to the General Budgets of the State that the FITE be extended when before, a claim that we consider just and necessary and that if it cannot be possible in 2021 - it seems, because the amendment has not been accepted - should be foreseen for the rest of the legislature. We believe it is fair to compensate and correct the mistakes of the past, but let us correct them in time, please, before it is too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. To speak of sections 35 to 37 of the General Budgets of the State is to speak of solidarity. Solidarity between the territories that make up our great nation, that was the mandate of the constituent parents that the Spanish people endorsed. Interterritorial solidarity so that another of the great principles that inspire our legal order, that of the equality of all Spaniards, can become effective. Equality before the law, yes, but also for the fulfilment of constitutional rights and duties. These were the mandates, but what is the reality? The reality is that the Spaniards are not equal and that there is no solidarity between the territories and this inequality does not solve a fund of contingency or interterritorial compensation. Proof of this is that by providing these funds every year - as is the case in the present case in sections 35 to 37 - the inequality of the Spaniards is becoming much greater. Esquerra Republicana also considers that there is inequality in Spain, the problem is that his spokesman, Mr Gabriel Rufián, has shown that he is not precisely an understanding in tax matters. In fact, in this ceremony of the partiece of Spain in which the processing of the General Budgets of the State has become, what Mr. Rufián did last week was to use the taxation to bring back a mantra that is classic of Catalan independence, it is no longer 'Spain robs us', as Mr. Mario Garcés pointed out, but 'Madrid robs us'. And what did the Government of Spain do? So take the opportunity by yielding to the claims of the independenceists. On the one hand, he got his support for these accounts, but on the other, he got another goal and it was to attack the one who has proved to be his pathological obsession: Mrs. Díaz Ayuso. It is not the first, because the first is undoubtedly our political formation, VOX. At the head of Mr Gabriel Rufián the expression fiscal dumping sounded good and with a solemn appearance appeared last week before the media to announce that he had reached a pre-agreement with the Government of Spain that he was going through a comprehensive tax reform with the aim, with the clear objective of ending fiscal dumping in Madrid; not with the Basque oasis, no, but with the fiscal dumping in Madrid. [[Applauds]] And that same mantra is the one that went out to repeat sanchoists and communists. It was not enough for them to lock us up in Madrid, it was not enough for them to kidnap the people of Madrid; now the next step is to ruin us, to depolicate us fiscally and also by order of the Catalan independenceists, supplanting the sovereign mandate of the Madrid Assembly. Well, ladies and gentlemen, as a Spaniard and a Madrid resident, I have to tell you that you are miserable and, as a state lawyer, I have to add that you are ignorant prosecutors. [[Applauds]] In Madrid there is no fiscal dumping; in Madrid, as in the rest of Spain - except in the Basque Country and in Navarre - what we have is an identical tax model, the one enshrined in the Spanish Constitution, which it does is to recognize and guarantee the fiscal autonomy of the autonomous communities. In other words, the autonomous communities have an area of freedom precisely to design their own fiscal policy and there is normative capacity so that the common system autonomous communities can regulate what are called assigned taxes, but all of them have the same normative capacity. That is why there is a real fiscal hell in Catalonia, and that is why in the Community of Madrid what exists is freedom, ladies and gentlemen, does not suffocate with taxes on citizens or businesses. The result? With less taxes, Madrid has contributed to the common fund, to the solidarity fund, 23 billion more since 2009 than Catalonia. That is solidarity because we cover 70% of the contributions, of the contributions, compared to the 24% that Catalonia provides, with less taxes. And it is not, as you say demagogically, to protect big fortunes because it turns out that a taxpayer who earns 30 000 euros in Catalonia - I insist, 30 000 euros, ladies and gentlemen, not big fortunes - what he does is pay 307 euros more in the IRPF than in Madrid. Do you know what tax dumping is? The Basque fiscal holidays agreed by the Basque extortionist party in the Basque Autonomous Community in the 1990s. The aim of the Social-Communist Government is to bring down Mrs. Díaz Ayuso and, if they have to destroy the people of Madrid, they are proving that they have no scruples whatsoever. Well, second time in this House, in this Chamber, VOX says the following: put our name on that target that you have placed on Mrs Díaz Ayuso's chest because we are not going to abandon the people of Madrid. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens, I shall now address you. Have you heard my speech? Yeah, I'm watching them listen to me carefully. This is called defending what is good for the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] And now I'm going to give a first to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens, because the worse the Spanish are going through, the more erratic they see, the others. [[Rumors]] The enemy of the Spaniards is there, the enemy of the Spaniards is not VOX. [[pointing to the bench on the left]] [[Applauds]] However, you use your efforts, your energies and your most vehemently speeches to attack our formation, abandoning the Spaniards when they need them most, ladies and gentlemen, wake up. [[rumors]] With this social-communist government and with these budgets Spain goes to ruin, because the accounts do not go out Our country goes to bankruptcy and the life that the Spaniards have built, that life that with so much effort they have built, will disappear, because this social-communist government is imposing a regime change. [[applause]] And you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens - Mrs Muñoz, do not get nervous - in what you have become is accomplices and collaborators. They had the opportunity to reprimand this government through the motion of censure that VOX registered. And what did you do? They voted no. They supported that this government will lock us up for a period of six months, treasure exorbitant powers as they have not been known in democracy. [[Rumors]] And what did you do? They handed over our rights and freedoms to this Social Communist government, supporting the state of alarm They said yes to ETA's laundering because, when this parliamentary group tabled a bill that would have allowed its illegalization, you said and voted: no. [[applause]] They also rejected the VOX initiatives aimed at ensuring the use of Spanish throughout the national territory, as well as free autonomic elections in democracy, without violence and you voted: no. [[applause]] They abandoned us and stood next to those who, before our appearance, told you that they were fascists and assaulted you. As far as these partial amendments are concerned, what they have done is to accept these budgets, because the partial amendments only allow the sites to be moved. Ladies and gentlemen, you insult us but we drag you and as long as VOX remains the moral reserve of the Spaniards you can be very calm, because to us they are the first. That's why we, the 52 of VOX, don't confuse the enemy. Thank you, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gonzalez Caballero has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. After listening to this speech from the far right, we see a new surreal vein in VOX. The moral reservation reminded me of José Luis Cuerda when he said that we were all contingents, but you are necessary. [[Applauds]] And, as we are talking about contingency funds, all Members are contingents, well, VOX does not work. But you know what? These budgets are necessary. [[Applauds]] We enter into the discussion of sections 35, 36 and 37, Contingency Fund and Interterritorial Compensation Funds, sections that demonstrate the Government's capacity for action and willingness to protect and support citizens from the risks and adversities and uncertainties of our societies. Ladies and gentlemen, the General Budget Act sets a legal limit of 2% of the entire budget to possible contingencies. That is why this fund is increasing on this occasion, because it also increases the budget. Expansive budgets, with 33% more investment for the country's social and economic recovery. These are necessary budgets. Here some people have called them unreal, when, over and over again, independent entities, such as the AIReF, have repeated that they conform to reality in the midst of the uncertain scenario in which we move, even if it weighs them, or that their policies have the backing of the European Central Bank and that these policies launched by the Government of Spain have made it possible to save companies during the pandemic. They are real, they are doubly real in numbers and in people. These are budgets for people, for those people who are afraid to lose their job or to lose the hope of finding one. The Government supports them by increasing employment promotion policies by 7.4 billion. [[The Lord]] These are budgets for the people, for those families that were already fighting before the pandemic to reach the end of the month and that the Government supports them by increasing the child poverty programme by 59% and increasing the minimum living income by 3 billion so that no one will be left behind. These are budgets for the people, for those working-class youth who aspire to continue training and who with these budgets we tell them that yes, that they can and that they will be able to continue doing so with a historical increase in scholarships. The PP cut them off. [[Applauds]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about those people who suffered miserable cuts - this is true, Mrs Olona - when I was ruling the People's Party and today they do not think of each other being in the opposition, because if they did, they would vote in favour of these budgets. [[Applauds]] On sections 36 and 37, which deal with cooperation between administrations, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pride, yes, to go up to this rostrum and defend these budgets. Budgets that have the record increase in autonomous financing, with more than 146 billion earmarked for the management of public services in our communities, with more than 13 billion euros in direct transfers to the regions. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you've forgotten to tell all the attendees who came before me. They have also forgotten to mention the 9% increase in contributions to municipalities and almost 2% in direct transfers so that they do not lose purchasing power and can continue to provide the best services to our neighbours. A record increase in autonomous financing, a 9% increase in transfers to municipalities. And what are you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, going to do so much to defend communities and municipalities? Well, they're going to vote against it. Tomorrow, when you go to your territories, talk to Feijoó, with Mañueco, with Moreno, with their mayors, and explain to them why they prefer to have less money to manage the pandemic. [[Applauds]] As for amendments, vetoes and no vetoes, Mr Castellón, you talk a lot about the Constitution, but you should also read it and learn it. It has already been said here that there is the constitutional mechanism of article 134, which states that any amendment that entails an increase in expenditure or a decrease in income will require the Government's consent for its approval, as has always been done. Therefore, do not try to entangle, because what they show with their arguments is that they have very little reason not to approve these budgets. [[Applauds]] In short, in relation to these budgets, with all the sections that make up it, such as those that we are debating here today, we send a clear message to the whole country. Here there is a government that responds to the citizens, despite the adversities, in the face of the clashes of life and the risks inherent in every society. Throughout this process we have learned that being a responsible opposition should not be just a word, that being a responsible opposition must be based on facts and that you - above all I focus on the lordships of the People's Party, co-opted by the extreme right - have lacked responsibility with the country by not supporting these social accounts. They're missing facts. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, from the minute one tried to boycott these budgets without even having read them, without even seeing all the positive aspects they have for people. You know that with your no, you are not hurting this government; you are hurting all those people who need the momentum - and you need it now - of these budgets. In any case, despite his not, there is a majority in this country that will decide to say yes. They are going to say yes to the revaluation of pensions so that our elders have decent pensions, leaving behind the co-payments, the 0.25 % dictatorship they imposed on us; they are going to say yes to a 75 % increase in public health so that our staff is well equipped and they are going to say yes to the European funds. This is the important thing. I therefore encourage you to say yes, because we are all - all Members - contingents, and it will depend on our decision that the necessary budgets for the country will come out. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u40	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We continue with the debate on the budget of public, administrative, business and foundational entities. In defence of amendments, Mr Sayas López has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. In short, I take it that the amendments are being defended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Almodóbar Barceló has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Government assures that these budgets are an opportunity to leave a better country for future generations, but the reality is that many members of several present and future generations have been run by their bad management and ruined their dream. More spending, more deficit, more debt, more taxes, more unemployment. That is the summary we could make of the budgets that the Government has submitted. From the People's Parliamentary Group we have proposed a number of amendments, all rejected and some vetoed. There were eighty-one amendments aimed at substantially improving various areas. Yes, because the government, you, veto legal and consequential amendments because it is presented by the PP, while it admits other manifestly unconstitutional ones despite the warnings of the lawyers because they are presented by Bildu and Esquerra. Spain does not deserve to be prevented from discussing matters that would contribute to improving the lives of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the main mandate of the policy and you have constrained it, for example, by preventing our tourism from being able to benefit from super-reduced VAT, as is already the case in 14 other European countries, or by allowing the hospitality sector, so beaten, to continue without the aid that has been promised by the government for weeks and never coming. A massive deception to the Spanish as a whole. Too much politics and ideology in the public sector. When it should be technical criteria that would have to prevail in the management of these entities, we find that the Government uses the policy as always for the sole purpose of keeping itself in power at all costs. It is not invested with economic criteria, it is simply spent to buy the supports that Sanchez needs. We do not want to occupy public enterprises, like some other political forces, but simply to be well managed. You in this section, as in all, cling to the burning nail of European funds. They are beginning to spend money that they do not even have, because the recovery funds are linked to projects that have not been submitted and, if approved, it would be very difficult for them to be implemented before the end of 2021. From the People's Party we support productive investments and well-invested money, but public money must be managed efficiently and responsibly, guaranteeing the well-being of today and tomorrow. The ideological rise in taxes is today more than ever a tremendous Entities S.P. irresponsibility, giving the final point to the 100 000 companies that have closed down, to the 80 000 people who have lost their jobs, to the almost million workers in ERTE and to the million SMEs and self-employed who are on the verge of bankruptcy, while those public companies that are run by the friends of Pedro Sánchez - yes, ladies and gentlemen - have lost 2000 million euros since the arrival of the government the 'amigocracy' of Sánchez e Iglesias has placed up to five hundred people in the different public companies: Spanish Television, SEPI, Post Offices, Segipsa, Renfe or Paradores - have lost 2000 million euros and in 2021 they plan to earn 73% less. Being close to Sánchez seems to be a good trampoline for finding a good job, although there is no previous experience in management positions, while thousands of Spaniards stay on the street. The unemployment rises in Spain, but falls in the surroundings of the Moncloa. If even Ivan Redondo plugs his friends already to shame of all of you! [[Applauds]] But if nothing happened with the plagiarism, with the invented and non-existent committee of experts or with the ministers who lie every day and do not resign, what could happen now? Ladies and gentlemen, they are increasing the funds for some of your chiringuitos, but they veto and vote against amendments that, as I said earlier, could give impetus and protection to sectors such as tourism, fisheries or agriculture. Let's talk about AENA. Since the beginning of this crisis, we have been asking them to establish at our airports all the necessary health controls to avoid quarantines and restrictions from third countries and to be able to regain air mobility. They've been demanding PCR for ten days, only ten days after six months asking for it. But there is also a need for rapid antigen testing, something that the Government is not considering at this time. In addition, they envisage an increase in air charges of 9 %, when, in view of the situation, it is logical to apply a decrease of 9 % to promote connectivity, as we requested from the People's Party with reductions of 25 %. And I'll link up with another issue that worries us and that doesn't clear us up. Since SEPI, Air Europe has been rescued. While in almost all cases in Europe the state provides resources and, at best, monitors its money, which is that of citizens, for it to be properly spent, Spain is again different. In Spain the government wants to have a voice and vote in Air Europe, wants to manage a private airline as if it were public. There are thirty-nine airlines that owe 200 million euros in reimbursements to travel agencies for unused tickets since the first state of alarm was decreed. Air Europe owes the Spanish travel agencies, a subsector that is having a tremendously bad time, about 15 million. We do not know whether the Government's intervention in this company is going to address these debts, which in many cases would mean the survival of many of them. And if we talk about Spanish Broadcasting, a public service serving the government and its interests, the budget for 2021 is the synthesis of the desire in the management of this public company accredited in the last two years and the lack of realism and a solvent road map that guarantees the future and viability of the corporation. With Sánchez's delegate at the head of Spanish Television, Mrs Mateo, a deficit of EUR 50 million has been generated. We need resources, but we also need someone at the front who knows how to manage them and Mrs. Mateo to Sánchez's dictate is clear that she is not the right person. The Government refuses to follow the recommendations of the People's Party, the Bank of Spain, entrepreneurs, the IMF or the AIReF. Spain, in the circumstances in which we are in, needs more than ever a government that presents realistic and credible public accounts, a government that supports the productive fabric with lower taxes and that generates certainty and safety in terms of health and confidence in the economic field. That will come, sooner rather than later, with a People's Party government, with Pablo Casado as president, the only possible alternative to the sectarian, ideological and nefarious government that the Spanish have to suffer. [[applause]] Spain needs us more than ever. I'm finishing up. The government of Sánchez, of Iglesias, of Rufián, of Puigdemont and of Otegi repeats, point by point, the ideological errors that Zapatero made, and we all remember how that ended: six million Spaniards in the queues of unemployment, the external image of Spain by the floors and Pedro Sánchez voting in favor of the cuts. Its millions of rain will not be able to cover its harmful management or its inability. Worst government at the worst time. You will have a large majority today to take these accounts forward, but next Sunday you will celebrate the Constitution in a clear minority, as your fellow travellers will not be, they hate Spain. That's your true story and that's your story, don't forget. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, some standing positions]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u44	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u45	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone, again. It is my last intervention in this budget debate and I would like to begin by thanking my parliamentary group for the immense work that has been done. I would like to remind you again, and I say this without shouting, that VOX, and indeed he was not in the Committee on Budgets, and it seems to us wrong, that is why we say it. No need to shout from this rostrum, no need to call anyone an enemy, no need to call anyone a collaborator, we just come here to discuss between people we think differently, and nothing else. Maybe none of us are right, and maybe we're right among all of us. I would also like to conclude my speech here by pointing out that although it is true that VOX did not appear in the Committee on Budgets, it is also true that in this debate in plenary, and before the Chambers, there have also been many absences. There are parliamentary groups that today do not even occupy their seats. Republican Left of Catalonia, the partners of the government, are not here to support the budgets of the government of Sánchez and Iglesias, because they care about a Comino Spain, as they said. At least Bildu is sitting there, even though he is struggling precisely to end our country. There have therefore been few interventions by the groups supporting the Government and these budgets. I would also like to thank the Presidency of the House for the leadership of the debates, all the workers in the Chamber, in particular the lawyers of Congress and, in particular, the women workers who clean this rostrum every time we go up and down from it. With regard to this section of the budget, Business Public Entities, which are directly linked to the annex of Real Investments, which will be discussed later, we have, from the very first moment in the Committee on Budgets, shown our deep concern about the prioritization, rationalization and efficiency imposed by the Constitution, in its article 31, on public resources, precisely with regard to the treatment of these public business entities of the state public sector and of real investments. The budget has greatly increased in relation to ADIF and Renfe, but the Government has not clarified how it intends to efficiently implement the funds, which projects are priorities and which ongoing evaluation mechanisms will be put in place to make this investment efficient. It has not, and we were - we are - at a time when this was essential, a strategic investment planning was essential. And what have you done since the government? What you have done is pure and hard politics, partisan criteria in the distribution of investments, which is what Spain does not need. Investments have been spread across territories simply by seeking support for budgets, and that is clearly seen without just reading the compromise amendments. You have put the Vice-President of the Government on the Committee on Budgetary Control, which already tells us that this means that you will not come here, to the Congress of Members, to report on budgetary control. As far as ADIF is concerned, as far as Renfe is concerned, they have not even explained to us what the investments in the transport of neighbourhoods are going to be because it depends on the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism and on the European funds or on what the timetable is for the completion of the pending sections of the Trans-European Network. We proposed to them to speed up the disbursement and commitment of expenditure; we told them that European funds would be implemented not through the pre-intervention control system, but through the subsequent accounting audit system, and they told us no. Then do not complain that you are not able to spend European funds. In this section what is painfully observed is the policy rather than the technique, what is observed is that they have not met the requirement of efficient allocation of public resources. They have called the Administration and told them: Get out of the drawers all those yellow papers that you have there with a lot of projects, and they have ultimately accumulated in the budgets without prioritizing them. We do not have enough money in these budgets or in the 140 billion European funds, not even to commit investment in housing, buildings and transport. That prioritization work was therefore absolutely essential, and they have done nothing but use politics with their Basque and Catalan partners, as always; that is what this Government is accustomed to. Launches the bells on the flight, fills the Congress with palm trees to finally disappoint all the Spaniards. They have decided to use European funds to buy wills, they use them only to pay for the support of those who have as their motto the breakup, division and confrontation. We have offered you a country project through these budgets, from a more united, freer, more supportive and more egalitarian Spain, and yet you have freely chosen the Frankenstein government, whose glue is to fight against Spain. Inés Arrimadas asked them in March for budgets of national salvation; they have brought us the budgets of salvation of Pedro Sánchez. All the citizens have seen it - all the citizens have seen it -; many socialists find themselves orphans of political representation because you have put forward the luxurious armchairs, the villas with swimming pool, the official cars, the trips paid for by all the Spaniards, to Spain and to the general interest of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] We have been the only responsible party that has offered them country budgets to apply European funds, to enable us to get out of the pandemic quickly, not to burden the middle and working classes with taxes, to help small and medium-sized enterprises, to promote family reconciliation, to restore Spanish as a language to be used in teaching, and to ensure the coexistence of the Spanish people through a simple recipe: respect the Constitution and comply with the law, and you freely told us that you did not want to, that you preferred Esquerra and Bildu. I'm so sorry, PSOE has sold his soul. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú. [[Pause]] He doesn't take the floor. Let's keep going, then. Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members and all those who listen to us from their homes, you will have seen that the General Budgets of the State are a very complex, difficult to understand and written, in short, in a very particular language; a language that is the language of politicians, a language that PSOE and PP understand frankly well and in which they develop very well. It is a difficult language to understand and it is a language that is prohibited for the average Spanish citizen. I say this because if any company in Spain were to draw up its annual accounts in the terms in which these State General Budgets are drawn up, a hypothetical tender of creditors would automatically become guilty. [[Applauds]] These are budgets that are ultimately drafted with the express or implicit but obvious intention of being absolutely incomprehensible and that the Spaniards are not able to see what is hidden behind these budgets. Today, we are now debating two blocks that are relatively complex. They are called Public Administrative Sector with Estimated Budget and Public Business and Foundational Sector, State Commercial Society, State Foundation, Public Business Entity and other public agencies. The Spaniard who is at home listening to this, most likely has no idea what it is, or it is very difficult for him, so I will try to put some light in this darkness. What is it or what is covered in these two blocks? I'll read you some examples: The Home Consortium of Africa. His general manager is PSOE, Senator and Mayor of PSOE. The Consortium of the Barcelona Free Zone, whose president is the Catalan Socialist Party. [[Mrs. Lastra Fernández: They're not going to be from VOX!]] - Mrs. Lastra, don't get nervous and don't interrupt, please. Parkings Free Zone, Unipersonal Limited Society, whose sole administrator is the PSOE. The State Health, Children and Social Welfare Foundation is headed by the former member of Zapatero's cabinet and also advises Sánchez. The State Commercial Society of Cultural Action, whose president is the PSOE and what a coincidence!, former MP for Malaga of the PSOE. And so with a very long list and this is what these two games are. Now, how much is it? That's €65 billion. And this is another feature of the General Budgets of the State, which are handled in quantities and magnitudes that Spanish people on foot find difficult to understand, 6500 million euros. Let's see what they are: These €65 billion represent a fifth of what is collected for VAT throughout Spain, over a whole year; if we eliminate these two items, this whole range of consortia, we could reduce the VAT for all Spaniards from 21 to 17 %, for example. If we eliminate these two items, we could delete the IRPF that pays all of Spain's income of less than EUR 20 000. Yes, Socialists, you, who are going to help the most disadvantaged, that's how you could help them. Let all people in Spain who charge less than EUR 20 000 or EUR 21 000 do not tax the IRPF, let them. Eliminate these two games. [[Applauds]] They have €65 billion at their disposal to withdraw from these General State Budgets. Let's keep going. What else is this? This is a hundred and fifty times what is collected by the hydrocarbon tax. They could make all carriers, all truckers, all taxi drivers in Spain pay not a single euro in hydrocarbon tax for one hundred and fifty years. [[Applauds]] That's what these consortia, this House of Africa, this House of the Mediterranean, etc. are all about. [[Applauds]] What else is this? It is half of what is spent each month on paying the pensions of all Spaniards. You could give all pensioners in Spain an additional half-pay each year if you eliminated all these consortia. It'd be pretty simple. Don't get me wrong. It is obvious that there are organisms within these games that will be more or less interesting, but I ask you a question: Does the State really have to go into running parking lots in Vigo? Is it necessary? Do the State and the Spanish taxpayer really have to pay for a commercial company dedicated to port handling, when there are companies in the private sector that do this already? Is it necessary? [[Applauds]] So the point is that that €65 billion is very badly spent. The second question is: Is this expenditure necessary? The answer is no. This question applies to you and to you, gentlemen of the People's Party, because this item is stuck in the general budgets of the State year after year after year; in particular this item was already in the budgets that you approved, which by the way grows by 43% compared to the last approved budgets. [[pointing to the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] Another new question we raised: Will the activity of these varied consortia be increased by 43% more than justifies the additional expenditure? Is it going to increase? [[Applauds]] Answer me, because the reality is no. The reality is that the activity is going to be the same and the additional expense is going to go as always to pay salaries and varied in this myriad of drains of taxpayer money that you have very elaborately built for many years. Finally - I have concluded - we are in front of Cánovas and Sagasta, we are in front of the alternation of parties, that the one and the other are passing the ball from one side of the field to the other and growing, increasing successively the expenditure that all Spaniards must pay to pay for the party that politicians enjoy. [[Protests]] Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u48	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, because of a mistake made by Mr Alberto Rodríguez, he did not speak before. We must alter the order of the speeches. In consultation with the VOX Parliamentary Group, they do not care that this is the case, which I thank you for. Therefore, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u49	Thank you very much, President. I'll be brief anyway. It has been a confusion with regard to the agenda. I would like to make it clear and reiterate what we have already said in the Commission. From our parliamentary group we understand that the participation of the State in the economy is crucial, for the simple reason that this participation and public control over what is of all and of all is the guarantee of the existence of any minimally democratic system. Public services are tools to guarantee rights. Therefore, there is no democracy without strong public services. We all know that in order to guarantee rights, we also need a budget, and we therefore welcome the increase in the budget allocated to the various autonomous bodies and entities of the public sector in this bill. However, as we have said on many occasions, the guarantee of rights is not predetermined only by the participation of the public authorities, but must also be made effective. Therefore, at this global pandemic juncture and with these budgets we cannot look elsewhere at issues where the public sector is directly responsible. I am thinking - and I am not going too long, because I do not have much time - about everything that has to do with a strategic sector for our economy, such as the space sector, the aeronautical sector. Airbus, Alestis and the rest of the auxiliary companies are looking at how nuts are tightened to try to get fired and violate decent working conditions. I am also thinking of Navantia, in the naval sector, where there is a brutal process of outsourcing production; in these contracts and subcontracts labor rights are violated, black lists of activists are established, there is trade union repression, a lot more hours are worked than they should be, which causes insecurity and even death in the workplace, and has provoked the workers' response. Here we have the example of metal workers in the Bay of Cadiz. I am also thinking of publicly-owned companies, such as Indra, that are in an ERE, although it seems that they have reached an agreement and are going to withdraw it, but they always have Damocles' sword in their heads. In addition, there are other issues that do not depend directly on this section, but have to do with public participation in the economy - already talked about yesterday - for example, Renfe and other conflicts that are suffering from the workers of Ferrovial Services, who see that the trains are working and there is no crew on board. We have to deal with all this from the public authorities, because we cannot look elsewhere. Furthermore, we need not only to talk about bodies attached to the General Administration of the State. During these months, a multitude of labour disputes are developing in some companies that are going through problems as a result of the health crisis, and also in other companies that, taking advantage of the situation, are making another twist in the adjustment and deterioration of working conditions as they continue to produce benefits. To put two examples, I am thinking of Duro Felguera, the emblematic Asturian company, whose staff is calling for help and help, and the intervention of SEPI to maintain industrial activity after so many decades of good work and maintain jobs. It is also the case of the Naval of Sestao, that large privatized shipyard of the left bank that so many jobs generate and for which so little money would be needed to keep it afloat. In that we should not look elsewhere, we should not shake our pulse. The Government has tools and levers from the State to protect the most vulnerable sectors, to protect those who have always been hoisting their shoulders when they are badly given. It is the duty of this Congress and of the parliamentary majority that supports the budgets, to push to get these budgets in an effective way to go in the line of progress that they are supposed to start. Therefore, as I have already told you, welcome these expansive budgets, but let us not lose sight of the fact that only with their approval does not disappear the social drama that is causing the current crisis resulting from the pandemic. These budgets and the tools we have for entities that depend on the public authorities must enable us to guarantee rights with firm will and with active and determined participation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u50	For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u51	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, believe me, the Spanish citizens understand very well what these General State Budgets represent, the budgets that raise pensions, the minimum living income, the departure for scholarships, public education, public health, and also know very well the citizenship that you do not understand any of this and that is why you are against the General State Budgets. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of VOX, citizens know that these budgets are the ones that invest and double the amount of investment in ADIF, but they also know that you do not understand it because they are probably not public transport and they are luxury cars. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, yes. I will now analyse the entities of the administrative, business and foundational public sector; companies and public foundations operating in strategic sectors in terms of economic, productive, scientific, financial, social, environmental and mobility. We speak, in short, once again, of the value of the public, which has gained much strength during these difficult weeks, because in these months since the beginning of the pandemic and the state of alarm, we have all learned as a society the value of the public; the value of the public in something as elementary as public health, which protects and equals us all and of which in times not far away some spoke of cuts and privatizations. A second learning of this pandemic is the value of the essential workers, of all those health workers, those who ensure that food reaches the supermarkets, those who guarantee safety and cleanliness, whom we have not recognized as a whole and as a society for so many years. Well, all of them and all of them from this forum of the Congress of Deputies, thank you very much. A third conclusion that we also draw from this pandemic is the strength of the public, of the thousands and thousands of public employees who work every day to make a country, to make a homeland, to make the State work, with effort, with determination, with responsibility and with pride of country, and especially the public in the functioning of the economy and markets as regulatory agents, supervisors, but also as producers or intermediaries who arrive where the private does not arrive or who are present as a guarantee of equality, equity, efficiency and that they support our companies in the rest of the world. At a time when collective work is most relevant to mitigating the effects of the pandemic, nothing in our country would have been the same without the essential contribution that the Institute of Official Credit has, for example, made. What would have been Spain, our small businesses or the self-employed without the contribution made by the ICO in terms of liquidity and financing during this pandemic, ladies and gentlemen. What would have been our country without a public company such as Post Offices, which has been placed from the minute one at the service of society to bring everything necessary to citizens, vulnerable groups and all those professionals who perform essential tasks. What would have been our country without companies like Renfe or AENA, which have guaranteed basic transport services, allowing mobility, which was forced even though it was not profitable. [[The lady]] What would have been our country without companies like ADIF, which have invested at such difficult times and will double the investment to ensure mobility in future budgets. What would have been our country without Ports of the State, coordinator of the Spanish ports to ensure that the essential goods and products arrived in Spain, or without the Mercasa network, which has guaranteed the distribution of fresh food in all the capitals of Spain, or without the Spanish public television, so important to offer reliable information, real, of quality, independent, impartial, transparent of everything that was happening. [[Rumors]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, of everything that was going on, I will not ask you, gentlemen of the People's Party, to understand this because we already know what you did with Spanish public television. [[Applauds]] The public business sector has been at the foot of the canyon in this crisis from the very beginning, innovating, generating economic and industrial activity, with public enterprises belonging to SEPI such as Navantia, which is a strategic company of international projection, generating employment and which modernises our shipyards in Galicia, Cádiz or Cartagena; or with public bodies and entities such as Red.es, CDTI, UNED or the School of Industrial Organization, which contribute innovation and knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and of VOX, we are not going to ask you again from the Socialist Party to understand all this, but at least let this country and its public business sector move forward. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a public sector of excellence, we have a strong state, a country to be proud of and one that has a very solid basis for building futures and advancing construction and recovery. And this government, ladies and gentlemen, has made many gestures in recent weeks, now that the General Budgets of the State are finished. This Socialist parliamentary group has always reached out so that you could contribute to these General State Budgets. I would especially like to thank in this last speech the role of our spokesman, Adriana Lastra, in drawing up agreements with all the parliamentary forces in this House. [[Applauds]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, at the time we live, it cannot be summed up in whom or not we adopt general state budgets, but in what we have new general state budgets for, and we need budgets to make, ladies and gentlemen, more and better country. We cannot be content and proud of what Spain has given so far of our country. Above all, we have to work together to make a greater and better future for the people who are looking at this House and these 350 Members today and who need policy responses. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is a collective task that challenges us all, including all the political parties in this House. But this budget... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Casares. He's running out of time. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We continue with the real investment annex. On a position-setting basis, Mr Mayoral Perales has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. Real investment annex
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly. The truth is that we are already reaching the final straight and I believe that we are all looking forward to seeing the end of Mr Montoro's budgets, which are now going into history. Above all, to see budgets that start to change their course and start to put forward a countercyclical budget, where the state becomes an agent capable of pushing and contributing to the recovery process that our country needs. A process that will be very difficult, a process in which the contribution and contribution of all the social sectors of our country will be necessary to push the exit of a health emergency and a global economic crisis, with a series of connotations unknown to our country and to the world. And in the face of this situation in which this health emergency once again shows us how vulnerable we are, all of us, it is necessary to build logics of fraternity in which we understand that public administrations and institutions have to serve to care for the whole population and not to establish competitive strategies between one another, which condemn the law of the West. I was not surprised to hear again the thesis of Milton Friedman or Pinochet about the participation of the public sector in economic activity and why, if an economic activity can be carried out by the private sector, it is done by the public sector: To guarantee access to the whole population. We also need public enterprises that reverse income to the State to ensure the public services of the entire population, which is a democratic conception of State participation in the economy. The things that come in the Constitution, but as those who use the concept of constitutionalism use the Constitution to throw it at the head of half the population, have not yet had the decorum to open it even and begin to read that of the democratic planning of the economy that is contained in our constitutional text. Budgets are often a battleground on which bridge, which road or train has to arrive and which one has to prioritize, but I think that these budgets have something much more interesting than all those investments we are talking about in this chapter, they have a central element which is the quest to guarantee the rights of the whole population, to worry about the state becoming an agent that defends the interests of the social majority, and to understand that the general interest is the interest of the population and not the interest of the major economic monopolies. And I think that makes us a better country and I think that this budget is a small step in a process of democratic deepening. When someone finds himself at a difficult time he has to choose the path to be taken, and I believe that these budgets open the way for the State to worry about those who too often do not have the attention of the public administrations, but will need the contribution of all and all in their implementation, and I believe that for that we must appeal to all democratic forces and to all social groups to contribute and support in the efficient implementation of this budget. We are going to have to contribute everyone, and we are likely to find many bottlenecks and many difficulties, but I am convinced - and I believe that reality is showing us - that when you are honest in institutions, in the search for the general interest and in the search for the defence of democratic values, and at the same time you have the push of the different social movements to expand the rights of the whole citizenry, it is possible. We were told that many things were impossible, that this government that we have today was impossible, that this budget was impossible. All right, because we want to tell you that the main investment of this budget is, in the face of those who spread hatred and fear, we and we want to build up the fraternity and hope for our people to accompany you in that fight to get ahead of this crisis and this health emergency that we are going to have to face among all of us, and in which we all have to contribute with the best we have. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, and from the Minister for Equality, Montero Gil]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rego, would you like to take the floor? [[Consent]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you are about to adopt budgets that will allow you to govern next year - and presumably next years -. It is a pity that you did not make a firmer commitment to developing social policies, and it is a pity above all that in the case of Galicia you presented accounts that discriminate against our country, with a decrease in territorial investment of 11% and a fall of 104 million euros in relation to the last budgets of the People's Party and Montoro, which were already bad, so much so that the Socialist Party itself disqualified them strongly at that time. Of course, there are political leaders who when they are in the opposition say one thing and when they are in the Government they can say the opposite without blushing, even justifying the unjustifiable. The BNG has only one word, we are here to defend the interests of Galicians and Galicians, govern who rules in Madrid. If anyone thought we were for something else, they're wrong. Mr Meijón said a moment ago - in the midst of demagogic and senseless attacks on the BNG - that he was proud to vote in favour of these budgets. You will know, but you will have to explain, yes, you will have to explain to all the Galicians why it persists in an attitude of punishment to Galicia, found not only with an unwarranted downside proposal, but above all with an incomprehensible attitude of closure of the Socialist Party and of We can include any amendment that implies altering upwards not a euro the parties that have to do with our country, not a single euro. It seems to you that what you are proud of is that Galicia and the Galicians have less than what we need and what is of justice. I do not know whether your constituents will understand that, instead of being here to defend your interests, you are going up to the rostrum to blindly obey what the leadership of your parties in Madrid decides and justify the Government's discriminating against us. Like I said, you'll know. But I am clear that Members of the government parties will have to explain why they are defending bad budgets, and why they are voting against BNG proposals to improve them. For example, they will have to explain why they reject a game to turn Navantia into an integrated industrial complex, which also welcomes civil shipbuilding to generate new jobs. Or why they reject a departure to guarantee Alcoa's public intervention to ensure the continuity of the activity and more than a thousand jobs in that factory in A Mariña. They will have to explain why they vote against a budget of only 20 million euros for the railway connection with the external port of A Coruña, especially when there is an elaborate project and an environmental impact study about to expire. And above all why comparative aggravation besides, in these same budgets, there is an item of 140 million euros for the port of Castellón, where there is not even project. Or why do they vote against a heading of only EUR 1 300 000 to compensate the shellfish farmers in the Burgo region, who have to stop their activity during the dredging and regeneration works in that region. Or you will have to explain your general secretary in Galicia, Gonzalo Caballero, why in 2018 he rated Montoro's budgets as a slap of the PP to all Galicians and Galicians, and now these, with 104 million euros less, look great. It is regrettable that the Galician MPs of the PSOE and Podemos, instead of working for their parties to change the discriminatory treatment they give Galicia, spend their time trying to justify it, even with demagogic arguments. I say this because, in explaining the decline in investment in Galicia in relation to the previous budgets, it does not serve the justification of the AVE, because the AVE is not yet completed; these budgets include the variant of Ourense, with more than 600 million, and only 29 budgeted, and because we also have many outstanding needs, especially in railway infrastructure. Or they will have to explain why they use arguments such as that Galicia receives more budgets per capita than the state average, an argument that does not take into account the historical deficit that our country suffers from investment in equipment and infrastructure, especially in the internal rail network. Look, the Mitma presumes to provide a budget of EUR 1.5 million to modernise the railways. You know that not a single euro of that 1.5 billion will go to Galicia, for the simple reason that closeness there does not exist. First, they should be created, as proposed by the BNG in its amendments, which PSOE and Podemos rejected. Demagoguey as accusing the BNG of opposing the rise of 0.9 % of pensions; on the contrary, we proposed to equalise minimum pensions to the inter-professional minimum wage, something that you and Podemos committed to, before being in government, and now vote against. Mr Meijón has just said that we prefer Montoro's budgets. We want good budgets for Galicia, and these are not, no matter how much demagogy they use. In any case, I understand that you are concerned about the BNG's position of firmness and consistency in these budgets, especially because that highlights the submissive and branchist attitude of the deputies of the government parties in this Congress. But I have no doubt that many Galicians and Galicians who want things to change for real, as they have done to a great extent in the last elections, will now have more clarity than the way to do it, also to get the People's Party out of the Galician Government definitively, and to put an end to discrimination in our country definitively, is relying on the Galego Nationalist Block. Have no doubt that we will continue to work in this Congress and everywhere to defend the interests of Galicia and of all Galicians and Galicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u56	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez del Real has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u57	With venom, the president. Annex of real investments. What a beautiful speech we could have made if they were really investments and if they really were real! And look how quiet I came this week, how calm I came, but what a most embarrassing spectacle that we have had to live, and instead of being filled with pride for all that we can do for the provinces, for the Spanish infantry in each of the corners of Spain, in the end has been the shame of the delivery to the usual ones. Opportunity lost. Train coming through again. That's a very nice speech I brought. By the way, now that the train is mentioned to me, is Mr PSOE's deputy for Cáceres? I'll show you a tweet from 2010. [[Show a document]] Do you see what he puts there? César Ramos: All stages of the AVE Madrid-Lisboa will be auctioned in 2011 to be in 2013. You're not going back to AVE in Cáceres, are you? Be careful when you come back, because I think in your province there's a habit of throwing people at the pile when you lie. I think that's gonna happen to him. [[Applauds]] The reality is that this is one of so many examples of lies repeated year after year by all the political groups that have made this double in government, lie after lie, disinvestment after disinvestment, and always win the usual ones. The politics in Spain of bipartisanship is a sport in which always win those of the usual, those of the nuts and those that collect the nuts. Because here the truth is that investments, investments... Are you aware that that's almost five years? Of what, since when have these budgets been designed since the end of these budgets, it has been almost five years? And do you really believe that it is a growth from 3.5 billion to 3.8 billion, considering that this is what really comes to the provinces? Really, gentlemen of the PP, Montoros and now heirs of Montoro? [[Rumors]] If we don't understand this, the nuts will always continue to go to the same place, because you have given nuts to some and you continue to give nuts to them, because others continue to move the tree and are now up to the tree instead of going down from the tree. Nuts are for the usual. Because, where are they? Where are the improvements for the provinces faithful to Spain? Where are the real investments for the people who pay their taxes every day in Spain? [[Applauds]] I'll tell you where they are. You are in the 'All to 100' because what you have done in these budgets, by the way, largely inherited from Montero's budgets, which you should put on an altar, comes from 'All to 100'. Where one important thing had to be done, you have marked it with 100,000 euritus, which will seem very much, but in fact there are very few. I return to my province and give you an example, the N-430 that has to connect Extremadura and Badajoz with Andalusia, via Cordoba, 100 000 euros. That's seven inches. I don't know if that's much or little, really, but do you really think that's gonna connect something? [[Applauds]] Three blows have been made to this budget. The first, the usual, the gentlemen I'd call the frac collectors, the ones who always show up. In fact, they look like those who came to charge the houses - do they remember? - the death insurance, the black lords who every year went to charge. The PNV, just as sad, but every year they charge. The second blow is the prize to the beaters in their various flavors. Catalonia, 100 500 000 euros. Congratulations. And the third blow back to those of the nuts, seven million more. And since I'm talking about blows, Mr. Elorza, you pointed at us yesterday with your finger and told us that we're carrying guns, that we're armed. In this parliamentary seat there has only been one Member who has pulled a gun. [[Show a document]] Don't look me in the face, don't be brave; look at this role. Don't look at me, look at the paper. Indalecio Prieto pulled a gun in this Parliament, bitterened it and threatened a member of the opposition. That's what his game did. By the way, you're geographically still close - and you're ideologically close - and what you did as mayor is very close to the guns. [[Applauds]] Because you, Mr. Elorza, yesterday mentioned two Basque giants who did, collaborated in the construction of Spain. Yeah, they built it, but we're on giant shoulders. Yes, many of them Basques, many of them extremists, many of them Andalusian, many of them ceutians or canaries, but you are not on the shoulders of giants, but rather of heads. [[Applauds]] What are we doing with VOX? Well, yes, we are to help, because we are for a Spain that does things. Gentlemen of the PP - we can call them UCD or CDS -, I don't know what they want to be older, but, really - I'm telling you for real, because I have personal appreciation for some of you - do you think that without ceasing to insult us we're going to come to the call to help you? Well, look, not for you, but for Spain we are going to come, because we are going to be there for the things that are done in Spain. [[Applauds]] Yeah, more plugs? No, no, Yes to more energy. You guys want more spitting? No, we want more water, we want more roads and less ditches. In short, we want more Spain in all Spains, yes, because there are many Spains that make a bigger Spain. In that they will have us, whether they insult us or not. By the way, it's been two years since we finally threw some of the long and corrupt government of Andalusia and that party whose name I don't want to remember. Don't worry, I say to you: nothing; nothing. [[Applauds]] But in front of those who cheat and say I don't know what about the orgies, it's you who don't even give for an orgy the number of people they have. I don't have much experience in orgies either, actually. [[Applauds]] There is hope in Spain. There is hope in real investments, in investments that really reach everyone, that they will take the train where it has to go, that they will carry infrastructure and telecommunications. I know you're getting very upset. I repeat that we will continue to vote for the Spaniards, not for the PP, do not be mistaken, but we will come here because we hope that one day a government will present budgets that are truly for the provinces and for the Spaniards. That day we will toast with Catalan cava, with Valencian cava, but above all with extremian cava, with cava of all the Spaniards, and I hope I can come to do so on a worthy train that you have promised, that you have promised by lying and that I hope that you will arrive soon not only to Extremadura, but to all Spain. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u58	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. [[Mr Elorza González asks for the floor]] Mr. Elorza.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u59	Madam President, I welcome Rule 71, and I feel obliged, after this very own speech by VOX, to what are permanent acts of grievousness, provocation and threats, in addition to insulting insinuations by that gentleman. You're lying. The attitude of the socialists, and mine in particular in San Sebastián, as mayor of San Sebastián for twenty years, was a clear and determined struggle against terror. I don't know where you were. Therefore, let us bear in mind that no further acts of provocation by extreme right-wing groups are admissible in this House, which say what gives them the will and threaten them. I'm being harassed for 24 hours by VOX people on the networks, making all kinds of disqualifications and threats. That is intolerable and we must denounce it here, because you have no right to speak in this way. Except for you! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Elorza. [[Mr Sánchez del Real: Article 71 allows me to reply, Madam President.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Píriz Maya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u61	Thank you, Madam President. I rise on behalf of my group in this section of the Annex on Real Investments, so important to cohesion territories, so important to make a country, so important to make Spain a united and strong country. During these months we have witnessed a cataract of phrases made and slogans from the factory of Ivan Redondo. I recognize that I have a good concept of him and I will never say that he is professionally from the pile or that the toughest policies and the most delectable attitudes are his best presentation card. [[read a press clipping]] [[Mark to the left bench]] It was there. [[Rumors]] Well, if we talk about the phrases of that faction that keep repeating here, the one I like most about the Investment Annex is that they're not going to leave anyone behind. It was repeated in twelve speeches last week in the Committee on Budgets. These budgets don't leave anyone behind, do they? I'm gonna go over it with all of you. What do the citizens of Murcia think of their investments? There is an amendment of EUR 47 million for the recovery of the Mar Menor from my group which is not approved, while the contribution in the general budgets of the State is reduced to zero; zero euros. And against floods in Murcia, zero euros. You really didn't leave the bats behind? How do you think you feel when you see that you agree with the PNV and approve amendments for 50 million euros in ADIF in that autonomous community, amen of many others in other sections? The Castellanomanchegos await with absolute necessity already the AVE of Extremadura that will connect them with Madrid. I should have connected them soon, but you postpone and postpone the work; until 2030 the regional press says today. See, of 297.5 million Euros budgeted that were found at the time of reaching 1.5 million Euros. [[shows a graph]] You really haven't left the castellanonchegos behind? [[Applauds]] They vote not on all the amendments in our group which try to solve this discrimination, while they approve several amendments from some of the regionalist groups, and support them with almost 30 million euros. What are you trying to do? Fighting some Spaniards with others? They announce that the EIB grants a loan of 890 million for the Castellanomanchego sections of this AVE. Some take the money in these budgets, with names and surnames, in specific items, and the Spanishmanchegos, what do they take? A loan? Where's the investment? I keep going, and this touches me more closely. The socialist spokesman who was demonstrating in Madrid with me in 2017 to ask for better trains for Extremadura no longer does. Look, January 2, 2019, 'The extreme train leaves more than 150 passengers at night and in the middle of the field: It is intolerable'. [[shows a press clipping]] [[Show another press clipping]] 27 August 2019, 'Another fault on the Extremadura train leaves passengers in the middle of the camp and at night for almost three hours'. Yes, Mr. Spokesman, it is that he said the other day textually: We saw how there were extremist users who had to go in the countryside at 45 degrees, because the government did not invest. No, now they don't go at 45 degrees, because on October 27, 2020, last month, 'New train failure in Extremadura: still, dark and in the middle of the night' [[shows another press clipping]] [[applause]] The problem is exactly the same, because nothing is done. The difference is that the extremists before showed up in Madrid, when Rajoy ruled, and now no one shows up because they pay - and very well paid - that passivity. Don't come here and teach us lessons. I do not accept one, Mr. Ramos, nor one. Before yesterday he said: Help opening concrete - referring to the Hospital Isabel Zendal, in Madrid -. Mr. Ramos, in Madrid they do hospitals in a hundred days. In his city, Cáceres, his socialist comrades have been in a hospital for fourteen years, and have only opened half. [[Applauds]] Lessons, not one. The extremists feel they've left us behind. As long as 100 million euros are agreed with Esquerra for railway infrastructure in Catalonia, for Extremadura there are no investments and the deadlines are delayed. How do you think the Galicians feel? Do you think they feel like they've been left behind? What about the whales? What about the Asturians? What about the Aragonese? What about the Malagasy? What about the Riojas? First, for example, the A-74 is barely painted on the map, and we are denied hundreds of amendments with necessary and fair investments. Secondly, they deny our amendments on the insularity factor. Third parties are denied the northern round of Oviedo and its railway infrastructure, such as the A-2 in Aragon or the train from the coast of the Sun or the southern round of Logroño. While dozens of amendments were adopted to please its Bildu partners, it was clearly damaging other territories. More slogans. Do you remember the 'We get stronger'? Who gets stronger? The government? We could argue if it gets stronger out of here today, even though they'll buy time, that's for sure, but the bill is very high. The Spaniards sure don't come out stronger. The confrontation between territories does not make the country stronger. Ending territorial cohesion does not make the country stronger. Who gets stronger? Canaries, whose housing agreements, like Las Chumberas, disappear? Is there anyone who comes out stronger? Yes, there is: there are the real smiles, the only ones we are going to see today, are those of Esquerra and Bildu, those of the parties that want to break Spain, those of the parties that do not believe in our country. [[pointing to the bench on the left]] They come out stronger, just them. They also said, "We'll go in together and we'll go out together," and from here they come out of Bildu's hand. There were more slogans, yes, that of 'Spain can'. Of course you can; of course you can, but not with you. Here we have seen these days an authentic alternative project to the left and the extreme left, here we have seen that there is another possible Spain, a cohesive, constitutionalist Spain that believes in its possibilities, that is moderate and that runs away from extremes. [[Applauds]] An alternative project has been seen here. It has been seen that it is possible a different Spain, in which it does not mistreat families or entrepreneurs with more and more taxes, in which the freedom to choose school for your children is above ideology, and in which it helps the protagonists of that Spain which can, to the entrepreneurs, those who really generate employment. Here we have seen a different model, which we have translated into almost 1600 amendments, not from 'All to 100' or 'All to 0', like some, and many of them to this Annex of investments, all designed to improve our peoples, our cities, designed to improve the quality of life of our people. All these amendments will be rejected by the Government. We have fulfilled what was expected of the main party in Spain, we have given our face and we have presented an alternative. Madam President, to conclude my last speech, I would like to thank the eighty-eight Members of my group for your involvement, for your strength, for your desire, for your talent, for your dedication. Thank you all so much for working tirelessly day and night for a better Spain. We're on! [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, some of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u62	Thank you, Mr. Píriz. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u63	Thank you, President. There is a conclusion that I draw from today's interventions from the rest of the groups: that at least the social networks of socialist MPs are read, and that is fine, because plurality and the way to learn is by listening to others and reading what they have written. It seems very good to me that you do not agree, but at least read something more than the speeches and arguments that your party sends you every day, and that speak of a reality radically different from that which most citizens live, and above all of a reality that wants to lead this country forty years ago, to a history that we must never remember. The deputy from the PP spoke of two facts that I think it is important to reflect. One is the hospital in Cáceres. Do you know why the hospital in Cáceres was opened late? Because Mr. Monago's government stopped him for four years. [[Applauds]] The works were stopped four years, the years of Mr.Monago's government. It's funny they're coming to teach us lessons. And two, the AVE to Extremadura and Castile-La Mancha. Do you know why the works did not advance? Because Íñigo de la Serna allowed the declaration of environmental impact to expire, so that castellanomanchegos and extremianos would still wait. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u64	Mrs. Angulo, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u65	I also wanted to make reference, and above all to show my support, my respect, to the Basque Socialist Members who for a long time had to suffer the harassment of thinking as they thought; they suffered a harassment that today suffers from the right and the right. My solidarity, my respect, my support, my love. [[Applauds]] They know that they were strong for a long time and will continue to be strong. During this time in this House we have seen a debate that was only seeking to impose the narrative on reality. The right-wings have tried to see who used the most disqualifying adjectives to impose their truth - I say their truth because it wasn't reality - but, I wonder: To whom do they want to do merit, to whom do the people of the right want to do merit? Before the citizens who are looking for certainty? I don't think so. Before citizens who seek policies that give them answers? I don't think so, because the account of what you're talking about here doesn't interest the Spaniards, it doesn't interest the citizens. I am proud that today there will be budgets that support many parties, many parties of every sign - left parties, green parties, nationalist parties - and that seek to support budgets that think of people, that think of people who are going through the worst, that think of people who need politics to move forward and, therefore, I think we need to be proud of these budgets. I admit I don't understand the position of the BNG. They are good budgets for the Galicians, they are good budgets for the people who suffer the most, so I don't understand it, because they are budgets that for the first time manage to boost the bonuses of the AP-9. Is it true there could be more? There may always be more, but it is also true that these budgets are budgets that will support all left-wing parties in this House - I say all left-wing parties - except the BNG, and it is a reflection they have to do. I think we need to keep moving forward in policies, I think we need to keep moving forward in policies that protect workers, that protect the weakest people, that protect people, as I said, that they need politics more in this country to move forward. Today we definitely leave behind budgets that are the budgets of Mr Montoro, the budgets of the PP; today we leave behind the Government of the People's Party, the Rajoy Government, that did so much damage to this country, that did so much damage to the workers of this country and that they are doing so much damage and continue to do so. And that is why we see the right calling against these budgets and against those we support these budgets; we see the right-wing parliamentary calling against the parties that we are going to support them; we see the right-wing media calling against these budgets, which are good for this country; we see the right-wing calling at barracks against budgets that are good for the people of this country. But, fortunately, for years politics in this country has been decided by the citizens, decided by Parliament, and not decided in the barracks. I repeat, in this country politics is done by citizens, by parliamentarians, who represent all citizens. That is why I am glad that we have achieved budgets that are good for this country, that are good for citizens, that change the policies of the PP and that will boost future development. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u66	Thank you, Mr. Ramos. [[Mrs. Angulo Romero utters words that are not perceived.- Rumors]] Mrs. Angulo, you don't have the floor. [[Applauds]] We continue with the debate on State revenue. Mr Guijarro García has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. [[Laughter.-Applause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u67	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. President, I am not going to dwell on the tax rules since we had the opportunity to do so last Monday in the relevant section, so, with regard to the paragraph on this point, I would like to introduce a concept that has been built up in opposition to that other idea which is so perverse but at the same time so widespread called the spending ceiling. Faced with this, we have always wanted to contrast it with the concept of income land. The term would hardly deserve an explanation - it is understood for itself - but I will stop just a minute to transfer to them the simple syllogism that leads us to defend this position. As your ladies and gentlemen are well aware, the Spanish Constitution contains a number of rights called third-generation rights. Economic and social rights, whose guarantee requires positive action by the State: the right to public education, to decent housing, to a sufficient pension, to a health for all and for all. It is not, then, to stop doing, as other rights linked rather to the liberal tradition, but to do to guarantee, more proper to the welfare States of the twentieth century. This positive action therefore requires resource planning, without which it is simply impossible to guarantee any of these rights. If, therefore, it is a question of complying with the provisions of the Magna Charter and not just denouncing them, as a magical conjurement, the State must ensure that they are guaranteed a minimum budget because otherwise, if what we are doing is starting from their antagonism, from the concept of spending ceiling, in the background what we are slipping is the idea that it does not give for everything and that we must choose between guaranteeing, for example, decent pensions, but at the cost of closing schools or hospitals, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is simply unacceptable. Are this year's general budgets sufficient to guarantee these rights? Have we therefore reached the minimum income soil? Our group trusts that it does. We have before us a considerable increase in these revenues, about 14.5%, which contains three main sources. On the one hand, the economic recovery after the negative result of the same Income from the State year; on the other hand, income from European funds and, finally, the impact of the policy measures to be implemented this year. It is true, however, that the uncertainty generated by this crisis forces us to be cautious. We must be cautious, moreover, because these revenues will depend directly on the fate of next year and, in that prospective exercise, there are opinions for all tastes. There are the optimists, there are the pessimists, and then there are the agglomerators, those who from the most embarrassing dilettantism strive to announce Armageddon. They seem to distil an intimate joy, an unrecognizable pleasure because our country is wrong, as they think that will lead back to the government. They are the same people who deeply regret the success of this government in the European negotiations, and do not think that they are making much effort to conceal it, what is going on!, in fact, we have heard various manifestations in this regard from this rostrum over these days; the same ones that have accused the government of being too optimistic about the forecasts for next year. I would say that they were not so generous, it was not that term that they used, rather they pointed out to the Executive as a nest of liars, but we ask ourselves: Does the Stock Exchange, which has just grown by 27% in November, think the same after knowing the effectiveness of vaccines and predicting a better evolution of the pandemic? Do you really think that the antonomasy of the Animal Spirits, which Mr Maynard Keynes was talking about, the Stock Exchange is really optimistic or have investors suddenly embraced the socialcommunist faith, ladies and gentlemen? In any case, I insist, we must be cautious, but above all we must be clear what we want, ladies and gentlemen, what we want: either to guarantee rights or to discipline the Spanish population through the technocratic means. Our parliamentary group has been elected for many years now. I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to choose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u69	Thank you, Madam President. I will offer you a headline: We are facing the budgets of the -ista:'sanchists', communists, nationalists, separatists, feminists, environmentalists, globalists and optimists, but in their relationship of -ists they lack the most important: realistic. [[Applauds]] And it is that, as paper endures everything, as I have repeated on several occasions, they have in the ministry of making hacienda, for some, and ruining, for most, a magnificent creative department that is dedicated to exploring ways to continue moving resources from the taxpayer's pocket to the insatiable arks of the inefficient state superstructure. I am convinced that you believe that in times of crisis imagination is more important than knowledge and, if the wind blows against us, you will wait for it to change direction instead of adjusting the candles. What a prudence exercise! Expenditure budgets must be accompanied by revenues that are, first and foremost, realistic, as I said, predictable, predictable and can be implemented. Well, none of these axioms are met in their budgets. They are not realistic because they refer to rates of economic growth, job creation and wage developments that no other body other than the Ministry of Economic Affairs can support. Neither the International Monetary Fund nor the Bank of Spain nor the AIReF nor the OECD share the optimism of the Government. In fact, the European Commission, already knowing the budget plan they sent to Brussels, issued its projections at the beginning of November with a fall in GDP by 2020 more than one point higher than estimated by the government and a growth of almost half by 2021. You, gentlemen of the government - who are not -, you know perfectly well - and you know - that the greatest risk comes from the initial point, from where all growth projections are made, because you are overestimated the GDP growth of this year 2020 and this will be the biggest ruin for this country, as the gap between revenue and expenditure will be much higher than expected. Ladies and gentlemen, only you create these budgets of ruin, it is that neither your partners believe them, and you support them why? For because of the mere fact of obtaining economic and prison concessions, because these budgets only contribute to generating a greater debt that will squander the economy and harm the coming generations and, as I said, the one that comes back, who is squandering. [[Applauds]] The Banco de España stated in its latest macroeconomic projections that it is assumed that public revenue will grow in line with its tax bases, which are fundamentally dependent on the macroeconomic context, and the European Commission, where you have to go to sell your goodwill in order to gain access to aid, foresees a 3.5% increase in employment by 2021, less than half of the government's estimate. But that's not all. The unemployment rate estimated by the Commission is 1.6 points higher than that estimated by the Government, reaching 17.9% by 2021, and the high debt caused by the fall in income in enterprises and self-employed will lead to an increase in business insolvency. Go on and on. In addition, the Banco de España confirmed as the most plausible adverse scenario which projects an unemployment rate of 18,6 % in the current financial year, and of 22,1 % in 2021, and without faces to be reduced below 20 % by 2022. The consequence of this, an increase in unemployment benefits and benefits higher than budgeted and a much lower tax income than expected. These budgets do not reflect the negative impact of a restrictive tax policy with new tax figures and an increase in existing ones, in a context of depression of private demand and constriction of investment in the face of uncertainty. And yes, the government's actions, rather than spurring inertial growth, will slow it down. Ladies and gentlemen, the optimism of the government becomes a danger to the economy. How can you believe that with the economy falling by 11.2% this year, non-financial income will be reduced by only 7.3%, but at the same time increase nominal GDP by 10.8% and next year income will grow by 14.5%? Do you think that when we drop incomes don't fall so much but when we grow incomes do 34% more than the economy? This isn't optimism, it's fear, or maybe it's first-rate 'hyprogress' math. [[Applauds]] But wait, don't leave, there's still more. Now let's go get the second math. How could the tax agency say last Tuesday that the state's tax revenues are falling by 10.1% until October and you expect a 7.6% drop in 2020? We already know that the government controls the Tax Agency, among many other bodies - the list is endless, but we leave it for another day - but the Tax Agency cannot stop telling the truth. Therefore, the only conclusion that can be reached is that you either idealize or lie directly to the Spaniards in your predictions. This coalition government and its independenceist hinges want to confuse the Spanish by selling that the increase in taxes is for the rich. But let's see, how rich are there in Spain of those who plan to collect what you say? I don't understand them. I would like to be defined as 'rich' because, for example, when Mr. Iglesias was not of the caste, the rich were the ones who paid 60 000 euros a year and had to burn them at taxes. Now, as between him and the minister of 'equal da', they charge above that figure, the rich are already the others. We'll see when you go to the board of directors, then we'll redefine the concept of rich. But the reality is that the real and cruel increase in taxes is made to Spanish middle-income, self-employed, workers and entrepreneurs who prepare and sacrifice themselves to take their families forward. And of course you're not going to leave anyone behind, if we go the last, there's no one left behind us! [[Applauds]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, these budgets bring a forecast of revenue which, by far, is not going to be met. We will see the public accounts in March - remember -: a forecast that will cause a greater deficit than estimated, generate a public debt that will waste the credit of the economy as a whole and will only bring unemployment, poverty and misery. And I say to you sincerely, Mr Guijarro, that I would very much like to be wrong. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs Cañizares. Mr De Olano Vela has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The budget is the limited allocation of expenditure, prior to the receipt of the necessary income to cover it. On the expenditure side, I must confess that you have no rival. You are able to spend, not invest, the revenues that will be obtained, those that will lend us and, of course, also the revenues that will not exist. Their problem, and the drama for the Spaniards, is income. You only know one formula to increase income: raise taxes. No more generating greater economic activity that guarantees greater income in the short, medium and long term; no more generating dynamism in our economy; nothing more efficient, more private activity, more investment, more employment, broadening the tax base and thus generating what is called a virtuous circle of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, when an economy is plunged into a brutal crisis, such as the current one - we will fall above 12% - when families, self-employed or businesses are exhausted after a year in which their incomes have declined as never before, all taxes on them become the final blow that will take us to the tarp. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis is global, yes, but the consequences will not be the same in all countries, depending on the measures taken in each place. You have decided to do just the opposite of what the rest of the countries in our environment have done. All the countries in our environment lower taxes to reactivate the economy and consumption, you raise all taxes and do so to all Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, when the consequences come, do not tell us that: one could not know, because one could know and you are very warned. This is what will happen with these budgets that you bring us. I will tell you quite clearly: the revenue provided for in these budgets is a lie. On this occasion the lie is so obvious, it is so obscene the deception that not a single independent body, whether public or private, national or international, is created the macro picture or the revenues that you have invented. As the Bank of Spain, the AIReF, the International Monetary Fund, the European Union, Funcas, have said two days ago the OECD, everyone, absolutely everyone considers that the macro table and therefore the revenues are false. Moreover, yesterday, the Tax Agency, which reports to the Ministry of Finance, also denied its revenue forecasts for 2020 and reduced them by no less than 25%. 25% less revenue in 2020 on what you said a few weeks ago. If in just a month your predictions deviate nothing less than a quarter, we can get an idea of what you will achieve by implementing your policies a full annuality. I'll tell you otherwise, the tax agency also says you're lying. Ladies and gentlemen, the government estimates revenue as if there were not 100 000 companies less than a year ago in Spain, 600 000 companies in technical bankruptcy, 1 million self-employed people at risk of disappearing, 300 000 companies that are actually going to disappear, 4 million unemployed and rising, or 750 000 Spaniards in an ERTE and increasing. You calculate the income as if the 85 million tourists who visited us throughout 2019 were to return in 2021, even if only during the second semester, because not before will stabilize the health crisis that has prevented them from coming this year. And the worst part of it is that they throw out the towel with the job. These budgets are the accounts or, if you want, better the stories, in which Sánchez and Iglesias refuse to create employment. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember when Sánchez pompously announced that in four years he would create 800,000 jobs? If that figure was unambitious, since it was half of what the governments of the People's Party were generating and without European aid, today we know Mr Sánchez lied. Again, Sanchez lied. And I don't say it, you say it. The Government itself, in its working papers with the social partners, reduces this figure to between 200,000 and 300,000 new jobs. You tell us that you will create 200 000 or 300 000 new jobs in four years after spending - not investing, I repeat - 140 billion euros. The account comes out at EUR 600 000 for each new job; what nonsense, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you are throwing away the generosity of the European Union, you are stealing the future from the Spanish. The Governor of the Banco de España made this clear: With this budget, once the Community rules are restored, we will have a decade of adjustments ahead. Ten years of adjustments are waiting for us because of their reckless economic policy. You do the same thing again as in 2008 and 2009: deny reality, lie boldly and pretend to cover up your incompetence with a drunken expense, so that when your party is over, we will all suffer. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, of May 2010? The biggest cut in our history; yes, ladies and gentlemen, what you call austereicide was invented by ZP, and, by the way, Sánchez applauded to rabies, just as you do right now. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to address the ladies and gentlemen of VOX, Mrs Olona, who said that the enemies of the Spaniards are this social-communist government. I can agree in part, although I would also add to the rest of the populisms - you understand me already - but it is that the Spaniards are defended here, Mrs Olona, working in the Congress of Deputies. If you had been working and not gone on vacation, more than 30 amendments would have been adopted, many of which would have reduced the tax burden on all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Do you realize that you always go to the rescue of Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias? They did so with the motion of censure and they do so also with these General State Budgets. I want to think that none of you deliberately pretends to be the useful fool of Mr Sánchez's government, but I also tell you that with certain attitudes you make it really difficult for us. Mr Rego - which I think he is not -, if you want to be honest with the Galicians, you should tell them that if these budgets of Mr Sánchez are possible it is because the BNG voted in favour of the investiture of Mr Sánchez. If it had not been, there would be no such General State Budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u72	Thank you, Mr. De Olano. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u73	Thank you very much, President. I liked the stories and the accounts. You have been here four days and in these four days the only thing you have explained to us are your stories to justify why you do not vote in favour of these accounts. [[Applauds]] It's proven that I count a lot. When the Socialists and the Government accept some amendment, Spain is broken, but when you - Mrs Olona, who I see looking very firmly at me - accept amendments from Puigdemont - from Puigdemont, Spain is not broken. What's the difference? The Puigdemont amendments have been voted by the PP, by VOX and by Citizens; for you Mr Puigdemont's amendments have been voted for. [[Rumors]] We Socialists have not voted any and when you go to campaign in Catalonia we will remind you, because we are for dialogue, for negotiation and for the pact. [[applause]] Stop making a mockery of this argument of the pacts, really, because your argument is dismantled when you too vote many more amendments from the independenceists, than you think break Spain, that we do. Just as they make a lot of noise with the pact with Bildu, noise they did not make when their spokesman in the Senate, Mr. Maroto, was mayor of Vitoria with the votes of Bildu. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] So, a lot of tales and little count. [[Protests]] Another story they want to tell us, not to mention the accounts: the chiringuitos.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u74	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u75	If something learned VOX from his passage through the People's Party is to believe that the institutions are his courtship. My colleague Meijón has told you very well: VOX puts his leader in Tarragona as an advisor to the Zaragoza Diputation. Cerquita, 240 kilometers. VOX places its leader in Gerona as an advisor at the Valencian Courts. Very close, 442 kilometers away. And neither one of them has ever been seen there. So yes, you, lords of the People's Party, believe that the institutions are your courtship and if not that they tell the Madridns and the Madridns. [[Applauds]] The City Council of Madrid has become the courthouse, in the employment office of Genoa: former secretaries general, former chiefs of cabinets, former chiefs of press; all placed in the City Council of Madrid. So much so that the Madrid government costs 4.5 million more than it cost Carmena. [[Applauds]] And that of Ayuso, the Government of the Autonomous Community of Madrid, has a government that is 45% more expensive than that of Cifuentes. What really bothers you about this Council of Ministers and Ministers is the a, the ministers. Recognise it, all the glass roofs have been broken and this is really bothering you. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Another story, the prosecutor's hack. The time has come for them to explain to us why, if all the problems are solved by lowering taxes, they have been crucifying us to taxes all these years. You made the biggest tax hike in our country's history from Elizabeth the Catholic. All taxes went up 40 times. [[Applauds]] A tax reduction puts public services at risk. You know what doesn't have merit? It has no merit to go out in the rankings of autonomous communities and municipalities where less taxes are paid. What has merit is to go out in the rankings of the largest public services, and Madrid in that ranking does not go out. [[Applauds]] Madrid is the autonomous community that invests the least in health care spending; Madrid is the autonomous community, the third, that pays the least to its professionals; Madrid is the least devoted to primary care. [[Rumors]] While the great fortunes enter through the door to pay less taxes than in other autonomous communities, the great health professionals go to other autonomous communities to seek refuge. [[Applauds]] That's why they open hospitals without professionals. That's Madrid. Another story, the macroeconomic picture. Not believing it is not believing in the strength of this country. [[Protests]] Revenue comes from European funds and from the largest economic activity expected next year. They forecast the same for next year as they forecast in August for the third quarter. You know what happened in the third quarter? That the strength of our country exceeded all expectations. The highest growth ever recorded occurred. Why? Because when our country starts, when our country goes up the blind, there's no stopping it. [[Applauds]] And if you, lords of the right and the right, do not believe in this country, do not believe in trust in our country, you are very well seated where you are, in the opposition. [[Applauds]] So let's talk about the accounts and let's stop talking. Where you see party we see rights, where you see spending we see investment, where you see debt we see social justice, where you see deficit we see recovery. It is clear that the difference is abysmal, and, frankly, we are glad and reassured by this difference, so we vote yes in a while to each and every section and title of this budget that we are excited, grateful and proud of the work we have done. We've been able to come to an agreement. Outside, on the street, no one would understand the opposite. [[Rumors]] Today more than ever thanks to all of us who have agreed to give up a little bit of us to build a lot for the rest and all of the Spanish families. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u76	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mínguez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Lastly, the Preamble had to be discussed. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u77	Thank you, President. I left it on. We are in the final line for the adoption of the draft General State Budgets. It is a complex budget, which is, of course, being debated in a difficult economic and social context, arising from an unprecedented health situation, which seeks to respond to the impacts of the crisis in an uncertain environment and with a Parliament in which fragmentation is evident and seems difficult to reconcile interests despite the context in which we find ourselves; a budget which, in addition to responding to the new economic and social needs arising from the pandemic, must lay the foundations for growth towards a green, equal, inclusive economic model that puts people at the centre of its policies. This is not the budget that my group would have tabled - we said in the whole debate - it is a budget in which the bulk of the items supporting the expectation of economic growth, the truly transformative budget, are in the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, and that is where we keep the clear, because the criteria for choosing those tractor projects that are going to change the direction of the economy are unknown, projects that, of course, should be oriented towards investments that seek to increase productivity and facilitate the green, digital and social transition, with a debate in which the groups have not been able to enter but we are concerned and also concerned. We have one thing clear, and it is that it is not possible to get out of this crisis with a 2018 budget, designed for circumstances that have nothing to do with the current ones. The pandemic has hit sectors and territories very differently, generated enormous social costs and had an impact on the economy, businesses and people. And, of course, reacting to this reality should be not only an exercise of individual and collective responsibility, but also political to address economic and social reconstruction at this stage COVID and post-COVID. It is therefore undeniable that, in the view of this group, having a budget in a situation of uncertainty is essential. We are faced with an expansive budget, yes, which contemplates the greatest expenditure in recent times, and in that we agree, we need to spend more to help the most vulnerable sectors and expand as much social measures as necessary. This group has been doing so for a long time in Euskadi with a vast portfolio of social services and an income guarantee income that has been the foreground of minimum living income. But it is not enough, because what society wants is people to be able to develop their lives normally, to have a job and a salary that will allow it, and to have health, education and social services guaranteed. And all this implies spending more, but also in productive investments, in knowledge, in policies that allow the change of the productive model to generate economic and social return and thus contribute to economic growth. We're bound as a society. Preamble to increase short-term spending on ERTE, to help different sectors, but also to lay the foundations for solid growth, so that we avoid such expenditure becoming structural as well. In this context and in an exercise of responsibility it is in which my group has moved. We are aware that very diverse, unequal and contradictory interests and situations must be reconciled and that we must also do so with limited resources, and all this has moved us to maintain a proactive attitude in order to reach an agreement. We have put forward territorial amendments, which clearly reflect the interests of Euskadi, but we have also put forward amendments with a medium- and long-term view with three objectives: to avoid endangering jobs in different sectors and the self-employed; to encourage an innovative ecosystem to emerge from the crisis and reactivate the economy, strengthening industrial capacity to move forward in competitiveness and create new and better jobs; to adapt legislation to the present and, if possible, anticipate tomorrow's situation. We have therefore opted for measures to eliminate the rise in the diesel tax and thereby prevent the rise in taxes to the middle classes, as Mr Guijarro acknowledged in the Commission, without forgetting that progress must be made towards green taxation but with rationality and progressiveness, accompanied by time and economic reality. We also want to encourage investments in the machine-tool sector, because they give industry the capacity to produce high quality goods, minimizing the cost and environmental impact, because they also reflect the capacity of industry and also the economy, and because they have applications in many sectors; they give investment in R & D+i projects for universities both in basic or health and industrial research, thus relying on basic research and applied research; they promote, strengthen and adapt laws for technological centres, which are of course essential for supporting and strengthening business R & D+i and because they are the ones that are going to develop the technologies of the past tomorrow; they regulate new forms of procurement, and I am referring to dual training in the university, bringing together teaching, working and professional reality and improving the employability of young people, because training is for economic development the basic pillar of competitiveness; and we have introduced better conditions for industry linked to the marine wind sector, a strategic environmental sector, to be able to establish and develop in ports of general interest, and we have tabled amendments to boost infrastructure. In short, they are amendments that represent an opportunity to invest in concepts of intangible assets, rather than in tangible economic concepts, which will eventually represent a major economic return of investment for the economy and society; amendments that therefore bet on innovation, knowledge and training, which, of course, are key to social cohesion, economic recovery and competitiveness and have been incorporated into the text thanks to the agreement reached by my group. To promote resilience is a long-term task that will require working with different time horizons and the adoption of different measures, measures to take advantage of the opportunity offered by the transition, measures for sectors in difficulty but which have a future, not forgetting measures to protect those most vulnerable, reducing all situations of inequality, and in this field of play these general budgets are only a starting point or, in other words, they must mark the beginning of a serious and realistic path to reformulate the economic model, a model that is capable of promoting activity and raising public revenue, a green, equal, inclusive economic model that puts people at the centre of policies, and to this has been directed our amendments, reflected in the text in a very substantial part, which, in our view, contributes to their improvement. In any case, as we have said, work does not end here, because the development of European funds, which will be the great lever of change that the economy needs, must be closely monitored. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizábal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u79	Thank you, Madam President. A few brief seconds to remember that today is the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. I believe that we can celebrate this because a law, driven by citizens but supported by a very broad political consensus, comes into force, which at last prohibits the forced sterilization of girls and women in our country. It is a step towards equality, freedom and dignity for persons with disabilities and I wanted to share it with all of you as well. When the years pass - I have said it many times -, we will have to answer many questions, because the pandemic is going to be a before and after in the history of humanity and all those who have had political responsibilities right now we will have to explain to our children, our grandchildren and future generations what we have done each in these months, what those who are in the government and what we have done in the opposition at national level. Why? Because Spanish citizens are doing extraordinary things, such as not being able to say goodbye to their parents who have died alone in the hospital, such as having to sort out who goes to a funeral, such as not seeing family members in many months or closing their business by the pandemic knowing that this is going to bring their family to ruin. And what have we done in politics since the beginning of the pandemic? When you ask me, I think I can explain that from the very beginning, since March, we have been able to reach out to the Government to support national emergency budgets and we have voted here not easy but certainly correct, as for the extensions of the state of alarm, which have saved lives in our country. And what did we promise the Spaniards when we started talking about the General Budgets of the State? We promise two things to the Spaniards: first, to work to stop madness in those budgets, madness in the program and in the government agreement of these gentlemen, and, second, to show Spain that there were two ways at a time like this: a moderate way, a sensible way, a majority in which we can recognize ourselves from different sensibilities but all sharing a common project, and a radical way depending on Bildu and Esquerra. And we promised the Spaniards that we would work in such a way that if Sanchez finally chose the second way, he would never be able to say that they had no other choice. Well, we have complied with both things, we have stopped insanity in those budgets - yes, they could be better - and, in exchange for not presenting the eighth amendment to the whole, as others have done, we have managed to ensure that these gentlemen do not add VAT to the concerted and special education, which you already know the love they have, or the VAT to health or education - they said that only health and private education, but private education are English classes in a neighborhood academy - that the IRPF is not raised to the middle classes or that the tax on societies is not raised, and we have also obtained the single health card, a step further towards equality for the Spaniards. We can say that in these months we have earned our salary. And, in the face of some criticism from some spokesman who has preceded me in the use of the word, I will only say five words to him: Scream less and work more. Why are we going to vote no? Because these budgets are not realistic. The smoke of these budgets is going to turn into debt, and that debt is going to be a loser in the future of our children. We are going to vote not because we are not helping SMEs and the self-employed, understanding that this is a difficult time and that, if in the future other countries are going to be able to prove that we could help these businesses, we should prove that we can also do so. We will vote not because the tourism sector is not supported at such a difficult time. We will vote not because they do not contemplate conciliation measures for families - you, who are so filled with the mouth to talk about progressiveism -. We're going to vote not because they don't bet on innovation. Just one example: they voted against such a simple amendment as that in the income statement there is one more box, on which the Spaniards can choose to devote 0.7 % of their IRPF to innovation; even so he voted against the government because he preferred to content Mr Otegi and Mr Junqueras. They say you don't leave anyone behind. Well, they've taken it literally, because their disastrous management of this crisis is making Spain exactly the last place in terms of economic collapse. [[Show a chart]] Of course, they leave no one behind because there is no one worse managing the economic crisis of the pandemic. And why does Otegi support these budgets? Why do you want to support Junqueras these budgets? Because they're good for the Spaniards? No, no, Mr Otegi and Mr Junqueras have said this: Our goal is to break Spain and run out of this country. Do you think they care about self-employed people, SMEs or businesses? Does anyone think that Otegi is going to vote on good budgets for Spain and that Citizens are going to vote against it? [[Rumors]] No one believes it. You're not capable of lying. We are not going to join the typical cart, to which we have been assisting for forty years between the PP and the PSOE: when the budget is presented by the PP, amendment to the whole PSOE; when the budget is presented by the PSOE, amendment to the whole of the PP. We didn't participate in that show. And Citizens are negotiating budgets where they are in opposition, and budgets will come out. Why don't we vote these? Because they're bad for Spain. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, do not be so hypocritical, because you give lessons on the importance of supporting a government at a time like this but where you do not govern, you present amendments to the whole and do not want to sit down and talk because you care about the welfare of the citizens. These budgets are neither moderate nor progressive because there is nothing progressive in nationalism, nothing. And these budgets are not good for Spain. There are many progressive, moderate voters who trusted the Socialist Party who are orphaned today. When we are asked in a few years what we did during the pandemic, we can proudly and responsibly explain what we are doing in both our governments and the opposition. Others will have more difficulty explaining what they are doing. Nevertheless, I tell you that we are going to continue working for Spain, because, despite everything, this country is very worthwhile and worth working for. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u80	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u81	Thank you, President. Mr Vice-President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I particularly appreciate the presence of the Vice-President and some ministers in the final stage of this budgetary debate because it is important. One, which already has a few budget debates in these General Courts, appreciates even more the uniqueness of this parliamentary debate. The truth is, we've seen some things I haven't seen in years. I have seen that the concern of the third party in this House was both to criticize the budgets and to criticize the second opposition group. I have seen how Mrs Arrimadas goes up to this rostrum and says that she votes against but that she has managed not to know how many untaxed. We will have to see how this government negotiates. I have also seen that amendments were tabled in full by the right and the right, even if it was against their postulates simply to charge the budgets at any price. In view of this, we have also seen that some Members of different groups have assumed a responsibility, a responsibility that is certainly not easy or comfortable, the responsibility to negotiate, to agree on amendments and measures in a situation of crisis, of health, economic and social crisis, in order to try to make these budgets, which are not the ones that our political group would have made, those that the Democratic Party had drawn up - I think that is not missing anyone - better than when they entered this House, which, in any case and without any doubt, are better than those which they replace, because these budgets replace the budgets of Minister Montoro, on which I would like to recall that the Democratic Party voted absolutely against. Thus, we are faced with a situation of singularity. In the last speech in this budget debate I would like to leave some thought to the members of the Government who are present - I repeat that I appreciate your assistance and hope that they will pass it on to the rest of their cabinet-mates - because, although I believe they are not being missed, I would like to emphasise it. The investiture of Mr Pedro Sánchez was voted in favour by 40% of the Catalan Members. These budgets will be voted in favour by 75% of Catalan Members. Some of the Catalan Members have assumed this responsibility, as I mentioned earlier. It is a responsibility for us now, but as soon as these budgets are approved, this responsibility will have to be exercised by you. The fact that 75% of MEPs in Catalonia are trusting these budgets implies a greater responsibility on the part of this government in relation to Catalonia, a greater responsibility that must be reflected in all areas, first and foremost in the budgetary sphere. These budgets are important, but more important is their implementation. Its execution for Catalonia is very important. We cannot have budgets with a low degree of implementation not only in infrastructure, but also in research, industry and trade. All these items in the last budgets have not been implemented in some cases or at 50%. We're going to be demanding now. We have been responsible, but we will be demanding with the government. They have a whole year to run them. There will be no excuses. They will have parliamentary support that many previous governments with more deputies in the majority group have not had. It is an exercise of confidence and you know what we are risking some Catalan Members with this. Therefore, execute. We will be very demanding with budget implementation and will not wait until the end of the year. It is the sole responsibility of the Government. And the fact that 75% of Catalan Members vote in favour of the budget gives them additional responsibility, not just budgetary responsibility. In Catalonia we have a problem that we are aware of and you are all aware of. This problem will not be solved without the cooperation of all or virtually all. You have to be brave and you have to be firm. Whatever the right and the right can tell you, they're going to tell you whatever they do, they're going to tell you exactly the same. So be brave and face the problem. It cannot be that this situation is maintained in Catalonia, with political prisoners, exiles and a huge number of reprisals, some still pending trial, and it wants to be framed in normalcy. The fact that we are going to vote in favour of these budgets today does not mean that we understand that the situation in Catalonia is normal and I hope that the Government will understand that it does not mean that steps, courageous and firm steps must not be taken with regard to the situation in Catalonia. I no longer say VOX, which has absolutely no aspiration to rule, but the People's Party... [[Laughter and rumors]] They don't have it, don't be offended. They have the vocation to occupy their seats, their posts, but...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. Your time's up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u83	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Some of us have had a lot of ears in the last two days. I start with a hug and a thank you. The hug is for a deputy with whom I have had many differences and I will surely have many more but it has been suffering in the last twenty-four hours for saying something very clear and very true, and it is that many of us are the sons and daughters or grandchildren and grandchildren of whom Franco cannot shoot, so a hug, Odon Elorza. [[Applauds]] The thanks go, of course, to the extraordinary parliamentary group which I have the honour of representing, in particular to people of whom we may speak less, the technicians and the techniques, without which, at least we could have done absolutely nothing, so thank you very much, colleagues. [[Applauds]] I'll try to be very clear. If the cost is falling, the cost of ending the financial 155, having help for the self-employed, trying to end people being kicked out and cutting off the water or light in the middle of a pandemic, trying to dignify trains so that people can get decently to their jobs, managing the minimum vital income, etc., if the cost of all this is to call us traitors, here we are, and we would do it 450 times more. Between electoralism and life, we will always choose life. [[Applauds]] One, I repeat, is the end of the abusive and reactionary control of the State of Finance of the Generalitat de Catalunya. For months and years Rajoy and Montoro controlled Catalan finances. [[Rumors]] That ends...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u84	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u85	Whoever doesn't like it just hasn't suffered this 155. Two, extension of the moratorium on the payment of social security contributions to self-employed persons. Whoever doesn't like this hasn't called a supplier 450 times to pay. Three, debt settlement in respect of scholarships for Catalan students. Anyone who doesn't like this simply never had to choose between studying or working. Four, one hundred million - I repeat, one hundred million - for ADIF and Rodalies or Cercanías. Whoever doesn't like this just never had to go running on a miserable train crowded with people. [[Applauds]] Five, take from the equation one of the parties in Columbus's photo, the moderates, the moderates with respect to not shooting twenty-six million Spaniards or cutting people's water if they can't afford it. That's the moderation of Citizens. We got them out of the equation. Six, joint pressure amendments so that once and for all a government makes a real decree not to throw people out of their homes in the middle of a pandemic. Anyone who doesn't like this just doesn't have a heart. This is just something that has been achieved by the Republican Left in these General State Budgets. Is all this useful? Yeah, it's useful. Was it easy? No, it wasn't easy. In fact, the easy thing is tweeting from the couch, that's very easy. But, in the face of a fall of 20% of GDP, it was useful, it was necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, 17 of the 23 Catalan Independenceists, not to mention the colleagues in Bildu, whom we warmly thank, vote for these General Budgets of the State of Social Emergency. [[Applauds]] Here is the political majority, not on Twitter. Enough of Caligula politics! In Esquerra Republicana we refuse and refuse to give the present and the future to anyone - to anyone - to do what we have done does not make us less independent, does not make us less republicans and, obviously, does not make us less left-wing; it makes us more useful. Second derivative. The paradigm has changed; the centre of gravity of the State, of the Government, has changed. For the past forty years, the states, the governments, regardless of their equation, comfortably agreed, negotiated with right-wing Catalan nationalism or Basque nationalism. Today that has changed, today the Government must agree with the independence of the Basque left and with the independence of the Catalan left. Welcome to a new era. [[Applauds]] I ended with a warning: Or all and all those who we bet on politics and dialogue we managed to demonstrate by February 14th in this upcoming election campaign and in which they will come, in all, that politics and dialogue serve something or politics will not go as politicians, will go as witches and will go as magic. We must do our utmost to try to prove that politics and dialogue serve something, what is possible and also what is impossible. Here it seemed that this country was going to end if there was a government with United We can and we have the forty-five usual abnormals in Galapagar, and that's it; and that's it. I can assure you that this country can endure things very first of all democracy, and I think I am being sufficiently clear. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Echenique Robba has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u87	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. During these four days of debate of the General Budgets of the State we have seen the three parties of the photo of Columbus very altered, very disoriented and very angry, and I understand it; there is nothing but to look at the budgets that are going to be approved. First, as a global framework, these budgets involve the death of the neoliberal, cruel and failed recipe for evil so-called austerity. The European Union lifts the stability clause and leaves crystal clear what many of us have been saying for years. Of course, when there is a tragedy or crisis, the state must be in debt - of course - 11.3 % of the deficit GDP in 2020 and 7.7 % in 2021, according to this draft budget; quite the contrary to the obsessiveness of the lords of the three 'A' parties for them, almost 20 % of the GDP in two years, about 200 billion euros of additional public debt to protect families, businesses and employment. How are you not going to be, gentlemen of the right, you rabid! [[The Lord]] And the European Union and the International Monetary Fund and everyone else, except the members of the alliance that governs with the ultra-right in Madrid, Andalusia and Murcia, also say something else, they say that we must do the opposite of what Europe did and what Spain did in the previous crisis; they say that when they are badly given, the state must greatly increase public investment not only to protect people, but also to shorten the gap and relaunch the economy afterwards. And what is in these budgets and in the budgets of all the countries of Europe? As a historical increase in public spending, a historical increase in public investment, more than 50% in Spain. To understand me, gentlemen of the Columbus trio, instead of their wild cuts, our reinforcement to public services; instead of Friedman, Keynes. How will you not be angry, gentlemen of the Chicago Boys' Green, Blue and Orange Fans' Club, when Europe has sent its failed and cruel economic ideology to the dumpster of history, and that is so evident in these expansive budgets. Of course you're angry! There is a 150% increase in health investment, 70% in education, 46% in dependency. By the way, Mrs Arrimadas, supporting people with disabilities is also devoting resources to people with disabilities and you are going to vote no to this increase in resources. [[Applauds]] These budgets also represent an 80 % increase in research, 22 % in university scholarships, 30 % in employment promotion, 60 % in the fight against child poverty, 70 % in social services or 157 % in policies of equality between men and women. How won't you be angry, gentlemen of the PP, VOX and Citizens, gentlemen of the cuts! It's normal, and I get it. If this were not enough, besides the economic, it turns out that these budgets also inaugurate a new political stage in Spain. These budgets today consolidate a new parliamentary majority which represents quite the opposite of you: plurality, dialogue, social justice and looking to the future. It is a majority that goes far beyond the absolute majority of this House, which is composed of no less than eleven different political parties and which has been woven through the agreement. This majority makes it mathematically clear that you, of the Columbus trio, do not paint anything in the governance of Spain, it is a majority that represents more than 12 million Spaniards and that guarantees that the coalition government has three years of work ahead and possibly many more. I empathize with you, gentlemen who have broken the plate of Largo Caballero. How you won't be angry! But, if I may have a humble advice, do not spend all the rage so fast, there is still a lot left; there are still three long years of coalition government, as I told you, and possibly many more. It doesn't seem wise for you to burn in the first year. You continue to insult us, you continue to accuse us of barbarity, you continue to spread bulls, you continue to feed your media terminals to defame us, you continue to try to bring down the government through the courts, you continue to do all that, which is already all they have left, but, man, I would advise you to do a little, you will still have to digest the final approval of the law of euthanasia, the trans law, the repeal of the labor reform of the PP, the historical memory law, the regulation of rents, several increases of the minimum wage, a tax reform to pay greater fortunes and large corporations and also to end the internal tax havens, the repeal of the law bites and the extension of the minimum vital income. These General Budgets of the State, gentlemen of the PP, VOX and Citizens, gentlemen of the block of Columbus, are only the appetizer. If in the first year of Socialcommunist Government you are already fantasizing about putting us all in prison without evidence, illegalizing parties that do not like them and even the most exalted...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u88	Mr. Echenique, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u89	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u90	Thank you very much. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum used by Mr. Echenique Robba]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this week I was curious to see how all the consensus parties are progressing, all of you, have stuck to the same canteen, which VOX does not work. They are right in part because, although it is true that VOX is the political party with the most parliamentary initiatives in this House, 1600 in the last two weeks thanks to the fifty-two of VOX, it is true that it is the most active group, but always in the same sense, which is in the sense of opposition to the worst possible government at the worst possible time. In what you are all right, because you have all come with the same canteen, it is that VOX does not work or will work in the laundering of this government. VOX does not work or will work on small amendments that will be a collaborative effort with this government. VOX does not work or will work to any extent in whitening the worst possible government. [[Applauds]] Never. And the same with regard to that Reconstruction Commission that you enjoyed so much, that Commission in which you lent yourselves to the unique story that so satisfied leaves you. But what really bothers you is something else, it's not the issue of budgets, because you already knew that VOX wasn't going to approve these budgets. It's easy to know because we're transparent. What really bothers you is that we are the only ones who do not submit to your progressive, globalist and bonanist consensus. So far you and your media have managed to subdue all the other groups and the few that have not - I think now of UPyD - managed to remove them from the board. They were annoying, as we are now, because we do not buy their goods, because we do not speak 'politicians', because we are understood, and we will never adopt their vocabulary or their mantras progress, we will remain rebellious as long as you are convincing each other. We will not be heard saying things like: these feminist budgets deploy co-governance seed policies to advance citizenship in this plurinational state and thus be able to implement all inclusive projects from consensus that open up spaces for dialogue to develop progressive initiatives that are tractors of sustainability for the benefit of the ecological transition. [[Rumors]] They won't hear us say that nonsense, ladies and gentlemen, never! [[Applauds]] We leave that to the progress of all the parties, who here compete to see who is more politically correct, who is more progressive, who is more hembrist, who is more globalist. Not us. We hold the position, as is well known. Indeed, VOX's position on these budgets and, above all, on this government has become quite clear this week. There are many parties that actively collaborate with this Government and there are others who earnestly want to cooperate and, if they do not do so more or do not do so in the case of budgets, it is simply because they have not left them. But before and after they do agree on almost everything. They agree to try to control justice from behind, or the press, or to distribute cargoes, or to launch commissions in this house on July 30 and thus activate their bonuses in August when they are on holiday, or to approve a budget like today, by the way, Socialist gentlemen, with 100 million euros in new official cars, socialist friends and'socialists', who so much like to talk about public transport, 100 million euros in official cars. What a shame! And the others, collaborating with them. [[Applauds]] There is only one party that shows in a frontal, unequivocal and unshakable way its opposition to this Government, a Government constituted, as we know, on the basis of the deception of its own voters and in which they have incorporated in the leadership of the State the greatest enemies of the nation. Therefore, as long as this is the Government, we will keep our infinite distance with them, we will not negotiate with them. As long as this is the government, we will not approve the budgets and only submit amendments to the whole, which are amendments to the whole of what this government means. And I'm not just talking about this year, ladies and gentlemen, I'm talking about the following. We will never collaborate with the budgets of the pardons and prisoners of ETA, we will never collaborate with the budgets of Bildu, we will never be collaborators of the laundering of ETA, which of course implies the prior laundering of Podemos, the only communist and Bolivarian party to which has been entrusted until the leadership of a government in Europe. [[Applauds]] And that, despite the fact that they represent a smaller, insignificant and dwindling number of voters every day, a party whose ideology continues to accept all of you naturally, despite the fact that they do not every day hide their desire to nullify the independence of powers, to end freedom and to subvert the constitutional order. And with this, ladies and gentlemen, it is what you are being collaborators with, all but VOX, and so it will continue to be for a long time. [[Applauds]] I want to end a message of optimism today. I know that there are many Spaniards very concerned about what is going on, but we promise all those Spaniards that we will continue to work for them always, that we will fight for them always, that we will be their voice in Congress always, that we will oppose the worst enemies of Spain always, and that we will never be carried away by the drowsy lethargy in which others who should be presenting some kind of opposition and resistance have settled. And neither will the attacks of either of us, which have worked so well with others who preceded us, affect us. Not with us, because for the first time in a long time and thanks to many brave Spaniards there is hope again. Things will improve thanks to them, not to this Government or to those who say they are against the opposition. For this reason, I conclude by thanking so many Spaniards that in every corner of our nation we stand on the street to cheer us up. Today I want to thank them, I want to encourage them and tell them that, if VOX grows throughout Spain, it is precisely thanks to them, to the growing number of Spaniards who support us, who encourage us, who encourage us, and to those who owe us completely, to the workers, to those who see today their polygon closed, to those who cannot open their workshop, their place or their trade, to the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, to the self-employed, to the professionals in the public and private sectors to whom some try to capitalize, to the unemployed to whom we promise to work to reverse these harmful policies for their future, to the young, to the retired, to the mothers who work at home or also outside the home, to the sick and to those who have lost loved ones, to all. To all, the fifty-two of VOX, like all our European parliamentarians, autonomous, provincial and local, we thank you. And even if we remain alone again, even if only VOX remains, we promise you that we will never abandon you and that we will always continue to face you and Spain every day of our lives! Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u92	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Rodríguez Herrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u93	Thank you, President. President, members of the Government, I tend to answer the question, but they are going to allow me to start with a demonstration: I am Madridn, I am from the PP, and to great honor, and I am proud of the governments of the PP in Madrid who work every day to improve the lives of the Madridns. [[Applauds]] Anyway, I'll get back to it. At the moment we are finishing the budgetary procedure with the explanatory statement, which is a part of the law that has no normative effects, but that should explain it to us, and the truth is that it does not explain much to us, only in two parts, where the popular saying seems to be fulfilled, which says: Tell me what you presume and I will tell you what you lack: in respect of the law with the constitutional doctrine and in strict follow-up to the principles of the Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill and its handling do not respect the constitutional mandate for a number of reasons. Firstly, because the deadlines set by our charter have not been met. They have entered Congress a month late, with no apparent reasons, and they have led us to strikeback in these days, reducing to the maximum the information and debate deadlines that are necessary to fulfill our obligation as deputies. Secondly, because, even though it contains a broad statement of what is allowed to be included in the rule, according to the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court - it is detailed and they say that they comply and follow it - in the 40 final provisions they reform thirty-four laws which, to a large extent, are neither budgetary matter nor strict sensu are linked to the virtuality of the budget as an economic policy tool. Congressional lawyers themselves have said so in their report. Neither the reform of the Institute for Women; nor the amendment of the consolidated text of the Law on Offences and Sanctions in the Social Order, which further establishes a new alleged offender; nor the extensive and substantive amendment of the Law on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector are part of the constitutional doctrine. And I could add the General Budget Law; the consolidated text of the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicines, with a substantive modification of the reference price system; the amendment of the Basic Staff Regulations; and the Law on Public Sector Contracts. It is understood that the Government is interested in simply resolving its particular interests by incorporating these texts into the paper. It is very convenient to use the extraordinary legislative procedure to get rid of a number of issues and, more gratifyingly - for the clear Government - not to have to give any explanation. In this regard, it is also noteworthy that certain amendments are being dealt with by a decision of the government majority of the Bureau of the Commission, despite the fact that the report against lawyers for falling into constitutional conflict is available. Although they were later withdrawn from the procedure, they have been processed. It also draws attention to the exercise of the Government's veto with subjective and discriminatory criteria, also violating the constitutional right of groups to amend the draft law on equal terms. This criticism has been made earlier by many of the spokesmen who have preceded me. Here I have two identical amendments with a different surname; this one, incorporated in the presentation, and on the same day, gentlemen of the Government, this other one was vetoed. [[sample two documents]] [[Applauds]] These are amendments on tax benefits for the commemoration of the fifth centenary of the death of Antonio de Nebrija. This, ladies and gentlemen, is an abuse of the majority, and what majority and at what cost have they made it up, Socialist ladies and gentlemen, at what cost. They also point out in the explanatory statement that they are in full budgetary orthodoxy, although the problem lies in what they understand, which, by the way, is not what the Banco de España or the AIReF or the European Commission itself understands. It is true that these budgets are made in an exceptional situation; it is true that, in this context, under the provisions of the Stability Act, an exceptional structural deficit can be incurred, but this situation should not jeopardize medium-term sustainability, which seems to be voluntarily forgotten. Europe's safeguard clause does not mean a free-of-charge authorisation for uncontrolled public spending; quite the contrary. As the Commission stated in its autumn opinion of 18 November this year, fiscal pressure is needed to get out of the economic depression we are in, but it must be short-term, and sooner rather than later we will have to return to the fiscal balance, with the cost in our case - and they say so - of having a very strong debt of around 120 % of GDP and a new structural expenditure of considerable magnitude as a result of these budgets, which are not going to make it easy for us, Mr Echenique. It is therefore not in compliance with the provisions of the Stability Act, both because of the lack of interest and medium-term perspective and because of the failure to present the rebalancing plan, as mandated by the norm and as has been repeatedly requested by the Banco de España and the AIReF. Obviously, none of this is reflected in the explanatory statement, nor is there any reference to how the measures included in the budget can help to achieve the macroeconomic picture which serves as its basis and which you defended yesterday, Madam Vice-President, nor to what are the reasons and effect of the rise in a good number of taxes or what is the impact on the expected growth of the sharp increase in expenditure. I conclude by referring to the position of our group on these budgets and which, in one way or another, derives from the intervention of all our spokesmen. The People's Party tabled an amendment in its entirety. The amendment contains many reasons, and the shortcomings to which I have just referred almost justify it. Growth and employment, which is what matters, are not figures that are reflected in a macroeconomic picture that is printed on a paper; they are the expression of what Spain and the Spanish need. It is the real solution for all those vulnerable to whom you claim to protect with these budgets, but to whom you will end up harming. Because, as one of your spokespersons said, you don't come here to square accounts, but you're going to square them from the outside, as you already did with Mr. Zapatero's irresponsible policy. But, in addition to the amendment as a whole, we have tabled many other partials aimed at improving the text presented and have rejected all of them, all of them. We really care about the Spaniards, all the Spaniards; for that we work and for that we have been here all these days, with all the strength of our Members. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u94	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u95	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of budgets is one of the great moments of politics, and it is because budgets can have a body of law but they have a soul of pact. The same soul as politics. Patriotism cannot be fear of anything, but attachment, affection, love and respect for something. To oppose everything, to refuse everything, even the word, is not an exercise of coherence, but a confession of weakness. In politics, the strength of principles lies in our ability to make them a reality. [[Applauds]] And the right-wings can twist the words as much as they want and flood this House with insulting ratings; we're used to it, they do it during all sessions. The truth is that today we realize the most social budgets of history, with one of the greatest support in history. [[Applauds]] And that speaks of strength, coherence, country project, future, security, stability. That speaks of a government for many years, for many years. [[Applauds]] This is the great moment of politics, because it is the moment of agreement, but also because in the budgets it is where values are demonstrated, not with lukewarm words to which the wind of extremism immediately leads, gentlemen of the PP, but with facts. These budgets are the result of a very different negotiation between parties. We have spoken, negotiated and agreed left, center, liberal, regionalist, nationalist, socialist parties. Some of us are very separate. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] I will not go into provocations, but we are a little tired already of the 26 million Spaniards, so a little bit of respect, at least to those who are in the use of the word. A little respect! [[Applauds]] From some, as I said, we are very separated, but we can agree that, although not all people have the same talents, they must have the same opportunities and that is why we have made the greatest effort in our history in education, training, research and scholarships. It sometimes separates us almost everything, but we can agree that the need is contrary to freedom, and today we must protect the unemployed, workers, pensioners, dependents, impoverished children and families. We are far removed from our paths, many principles and not few political aspirations, but we can agree that it is about rebuilding businesses, businesses, jobs and, above all, lives and families. Of course we can understand each other in all that and that's why we've understood each other. [[Applauds]] We certainly have different, legitimate political ambitions, but we can agree that this moment requires us to be less concerned about the surveys and more busy with the proposals, and there we have been able to meet all but the right. Each section of these budgets is a commitment to young people who are looking for an opportunity, to workers who have lost their jobs or are afraid of losing it, to those who are working for less today, to entrepreneurs and families who are afraid of their dreams, to women who suffer inequality, to pensioners. Each of the chapters of these budgets is to tell them all that helping them is the only sense of politics, that they are the reason and the sense that we are dedicated to this socialists. Of course it is possible to understand us, and for all of them - pensioners, students, workers, unemployed, entrepreneurs - we have understood each other. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, every time the Socialist Party comes to the government the right-wing party begins to stir up the same scarecrows; some of them have never existed, others have been defeated by law and democracy. Everything is the same to them and everything is worth trying to wear down the government, and that is why I am not surprised - but I am sorry - that the People's Party sounds and acts exactly the same as it did ten, fifteen or twenty years ago. The same PP who denounced anti-Spain as he filled his pockets with Spanish money again says that everyone else is anti-Spain. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] The Government that has brought the budgets to this House is a government elected by free citizens in a free country. More than half of this House elected a progressive government, more than half of this House will vote in favour of budgets, do you believe that more than half of the Spaniards are anti-Spain? Is that what you mean? [[Applauds]] The problem is that you talk a lot about greatness, but your idea of Spain is so small that there is no one left but you. If you want to talk about greatness and love for your land, I will not ask you to look at the Socialist Party, because I know that is impossible for you, but look at the smaller parties in this House, which have been giving them a political lesson to the right for months. Because there are those who will say that a vote more or less counts little, but at the most difficult time for Spain each has contributed what it has, even if it is one or two seats, what it has. Everyone has done their part except the People's Party and the right-wings who have done nothing. What are you going to contribute to the most important budgets of the forty years of Spanish democracy? [[Rumors]] Nothing. Mr. Casado started by taking a picture in front of the mirror and ends the year by taking a picture in a hospital without doctors, the sick or the operating room. That's all your input. [[Applauds]] Look, understanding, dialogue is one of the few things that when you use more you have; unfortunately, that's the same with hate, the more you use it grows. The way of the Socialist Party is clear and these budgets are proof of that. The budget law has never had the support of so many groups and parties, and I would like to thank them all for their willingness and effort to reach an agreement. My group, the Socialist Group. They said that this Government was impossible and we had Government; they said that the left did not understand each other, and we understood each other and formed Government; they said that the Government would not last, and I tell them to give up all hope because there is Government for many years, for many years. [[Applauds]] No one has been able to do it better than us, no one can do it but us and no one could do it without you, comrades of the Socialist Party. [[protests]] Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common and of the members of the Government, some of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you will only be able to vote from your seat, with your name identified on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have already cast the vote through the telematics procedure cannot do so again from their seats. [[Pausa.-A Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group addressing his parliamentary group: Everything green!-Laughter.-Applause.- Mr Garcés Sanagustín shows a role in which it is read: 1978.- A Member of the European Parliament: There you are.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u97	Before voting, the Secretary will first read out an institutional statement on the occasion of the International Day of Human Rights. Mr. Secretary first, anytime. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u98	The International Day of Human Rights is celebrated every 10 December, an event in which, in 1948, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which solemnly proclaims that 'all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights and that, endowed with reason and conscience, they must behave fraternally with one another'. [[DUDH]] This year, following the human tragedy of COVID-19 around the world, the United Nations wants to devote this 10 December to reflecting on the need to rebuild a better, more inclusive and sustainable world, where human rights are the basis for recovery efforts following a global pandemic that has exacerbated poverty, inequalities and other gaps in the protection of human rights. This 10 December is an opportunity to reaffirm the importance of human rights and to build once again the world we want, assuming the need for international solidarity and the interconnection and humanity we share as human beings. This day must also serve us to express our solidarity with other human dramas and challenges, such as wars, hunger or environmental catastrophes that plague much of the human community on the planet, and in that international context, to reiterate our recognition and support for cooperating women and men who, in such an adverse and changing situation as the present, leave a positive mark on this world. We recognize their work and commitment and express our strong condemnation of the attacks suffered by human rights defenders. In the context of the general call for action by the United Nations, we know that addressing all these challenges successfully requires us to overcome our ideological differences, and urges us to address the necessary and profound modernization of our system of cooperation through the unanimous commitment of our institutions and the search for consensus among political groups, civil society and other actors, in order to provide us with a normative and institutional framework that embraces and embraces, in its entirety, the cross-cutting dimension of human rights. Eleanor Roosevelt would wonder and answer at the time, 'in short, where do universal human rights begin? In small places, near home; in places so close and so small that they do not appear on any map. ... If those rights don't mean anything in these places, they don't mean anything anywhere else. Without coordinated citizen action to defend them in our environment, our will for progress in the rest of the world will be in vain.' The Congress of Deputies therefore urges public and private institutions to participate actively in the defence of human rights around the world and to play a key role in building a future that is much more just and sustainable for present and future generations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u100	General State budgets. Draft Law on General State Budgets for the year 2021. Vote on the opinion on Title I, as amended by the amendments adopted. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics votes, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u101	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion on Title II. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 114 plus 227 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics votes, 188; against, 48 plus 105 telematics votes, 153.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u102	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion on Title III. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 114 plus 227 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics votes, 188; against, 48 plus 105 telematics votes, 153.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u103	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of Title IV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics votes, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u104	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of Title VIII. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics votes, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u105	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 07, Passive Classes. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics votes, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u106	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion on Title V. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 116 plus 227 telematics, 343; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics, 188; against, 50 plus 105 telematics, 155.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u107	It was adopted. Vote on section 06 opinion, Public debt. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u108	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of Title VI. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u109	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of Title VII. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u110	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion on the additional, transitional, derogating and final provisions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u111	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of Annexes I to XIV, taking into account technical correction number 1 of the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and Basque distributed to all groups. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u112	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 12, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u113	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 34, Financial relations with the European Union. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics votes, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u114	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 13, Ministry of Justice. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics votes, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u115	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 14, Ministry of Defence. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 116 plus 227 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics votes, 188; against, 50 plus 105 telematics votes, 155.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u116	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 16, Ministry of the Interior. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics votes, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u117	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 17, Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics votes, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u118	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 18, Ministry of Education and Vocational Training. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics votes, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u119	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 19, Ministry of Labour and Social Economy. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics votes, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u120	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 20, Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics votes, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u121	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 21, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics votes, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u122	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 22, Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Service. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 227 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 66 plus 122 telematics votes, 188; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u123	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 15, Ministry of Finance. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u124	It was adopted. Vote on Section 10 opinion, centralised recruitment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u125	It was adopted. Vote on Section 38 opinion, financing systems for territorial entities. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 116 plus 226 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154; and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u126	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 23, Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u127	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 25, Ministry of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u128	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 24, Ministry of Culture and Sport. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u129	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 26, Ministry of Health. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u130	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 27, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u131	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 28, Ministry of Science and Innovation, taking into account the technical correction number 2 of the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communo y Vasco, distributed to all groups. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u132	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 29, Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u133	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 30, Ministry of Equality, taking into account the technical correction of lawyers, also distributed to all groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u134	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 31, Ministry of Consumer Affairs. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 225 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 104 telematics votes, 153.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u135	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 32, Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u136	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 60, Social Security. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u137	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 33, Ministry of Universities. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u138	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 01, House of His Majesty the King. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; 111 plus 164 telematics votes, 275; 4 plus 59 telematics votes, 63; abstentions, 3 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u139	The opinion was therefore adopted. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Quiet, please. We have not finished voting, ladies and gentlemen. Vote on the opinion of Section 02, General Courts. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 111 plus 167 telematics votes, 278; against, 4 plus 59 telematics votes, 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u140	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 03, Court of Auditors. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 111 plus 167 telematics votes, 278; against, 4 plus 59 telematics votes, 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u141	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 04, Constitutional Court. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 111 plus 167 telematics votes, 278; against, 4 plus 59 telematics votes, 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u142	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 05, Council of State. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 111 plus 167 telematics votes, 278; against, 4 plus 59 telematics votes, 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u143	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 08, General Council of the Judiciary. The vote began. The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 111 plus 167 telematics votes, 278; against, 4 plus 59 telematics votes, 63. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u144	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 09, Contributions to administrative mutualism. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 111 plus 167 telematics votes, 278; against, 4 plus 59 telematics votes, 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u145	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 35, Contingency Fund. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u146	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 36, Interterritorial Compensation Funds. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u147	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on Section 37 opinion, other financial relations with territorial authorities. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u148	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of the administrative, corporate and foundational public sector entities and annex of real investments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 113 plus 226 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 65 plus 121 telematics votes, 186; against, 48 plus 105 telematics votes, 153.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u149	The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the State revenue statement. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 226 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 105 telematics votes, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u150	The opinion was therefore adopted. Voting on the opinion of the Preamble. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 115 plus 225 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 66 plus 121 telematics votes, 187; against, 49 plus 104 telematics votes, 153.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-03-CD201203.u151	The opinion was therefore adopted. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common and of the members of the Government, standing]] The meeting rose. It was one and forty-five minutes in the afternoon.
