ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Many people today continue to work throughout Spain for the health and safety of all in the fight against COVID-19 and its consequences. On behalf of the citizens of our country, I would like to thank them once again and those who continue to comply with the instructions of the health authorities for the benefit of all. It also unites us all with the desire to recover from those who suffer from the disease and the condolences for those who have died because of it, for which I remember the Board of Spokesmen agreed yesterday to keep a minute of silence. [[The ladies and gentlemen present in the Chamber, stood up, kept a minute of silence.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u2	In accordance with Rule 881 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the exclusion from the agenda of this sitting of item 17, corresponding to the urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the actions that the Government is going to push to alleviate the serious economic and social consequences for the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands of the absolute loss of its main economic activities. [[Mrs Oramas González-Moro]] Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Thank you very much. The reference point is therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u3	We begin with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u4	Mr Sánchez, yesterday ten years of the plenary session was held, in which, with his vote, the welfare state was attacked as never before: Zapatero cut EUR 15 billion, with his support, the salaries of officials, pensions, maternity and dependency aid. They had already amended the law to speed up evictions and also to precarise employment; all this, of course, after many months of hiding data and deceiving the Spaniards. Now we move from those green shoots to the asymmetric V, from the Champions League to the high-end of success, from Plan E to the social shield. Same propaganda in Spain, same lies in Europe. They now ask for another Marshall plan, but remember that the one who took Europe seventy-five years ago was to contain communism, not to sponsor it, as his vice president in the Financial Times asked the other day, remembering, by the way, those pulses that cast Tsipras and Varoufakis and ended up in a corralito. In order not to have to find out again about the Italian Government, Mr Sánchez, can you tell us if you are going to ask for the ransom, how much would it cost and what economic prospects the Government has?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u5	Thank you, Mr. Casado. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. Indeed, COVID-19, the crisis of COVID, has a threefold dimension: health, social and economic. Here are the economic prospects for a halt in activity in 2020 and a recovery in activity in 2021, and I think that if anything has been shown with this crisis of the COVID is that the way to advance precisely that economic recovery is that of unity. The unit saves lives, ladies and gentlemen, and the unit can also save businesses and jobs. Yesterday we had a good example in the Council of Ministers, where we adopted a real decree-law to extend the ERTE until 30 June, following dialogue and agreement between the Government and the social partners, i.e. employers and trade unions. This week the Parliamentary Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction will be launched, and I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that your group - and the group as a whole - is called upon to build that unity, because that unity, ladies and gentlemen, not only saves lives in this crisis of the COVID, but can also save businesses and jobs. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. White Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u8	Mr Sánchez, last March 9th I proposed an economic shock plan in the face of the crisis of the coronavirus, but your Government replied that it would have an unsignificant and transitory impact. I do not know whether it seems to them that there are already 27,000 dead or that the destruction of 10% of the national economy and 5 million jobs is temporary. Yesterday we presented that plan B, which you do not find, to reactivate Spain with more liquidity, also with reduction of tax, labor and bureaucratic costs. Instead of assuming to pay, and late, 5 million unemployment benefits, you should take care of recovering employment to avoid social cuts like those voted here ten years ago. To do this, the Spanish population must be delimited by risk groups, with mandatory masks, with massive tests, with contagious tracing, with fingerprints, and strengthen the National Health System. For that, we have proposed a Cajal pact of state for health, care for the elderly or research. And once again replace the state of alarm with basic legislation, as the European Union advises and have already assumed most of its States. But you continue with your variable geometry, which led you yesterday to try to the end a pact with the CUP, Esquerra, and Junts per Cat, while demanding that those who wear a cordon sanitaire we come here to extend their coat of arms one more month. But, Mr. Sanchez, we've come this far. We have supported him for two months to save lives, but we will not back him to ruin Spain for the third time. Again, that must be the old socialist normality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u9	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u10	Thank you, Your Honor. Let us see: the government has proposed not to enter into this sort of dialectic with its stoneboard arguments, Mr Casado, because we understand that the enemy is not the People's Party; the common enemy we have is the COVID and, therefore, we have to act in front of it. Many of the things you have said would be easily rebuttable, but I will not go into it because I believe that the Spaniards do not want that, neither from the opposition group nor from the Government of Spain. Yes, I will say that the COVID crisis, ladies and gentlemen, has its unique features. It is not affecting less competitive, less efficient sectors, sectors affected by a bubble - as happened, for example, with the residential construction sector in 2008 - but it is affecting sectors that are very exposed to these health restrictions, for example, the tourism sector; very competitive sectors that generate employment And here is the logic of what we are doing this week, Your Honor: we are supporting, through the ICO lines and also through the benefits to support the income of workers and businesses, self-employed workers, self-employed workers, tourism companies and sectors that are directly affected by these health restrictions. And that is the way, Your Honor, the way is that of unity; the way, Your Honor, is that of us all to forge that unity not only to save lives on the health front, but also to save businesses and save jobs. I, ladies and gentlemen, believe that this Congress has a very important task from this week onwards with this parliamentary committee for social and economic reconstruction, and I ask you to abandon the confrontation and to add and tie your shoulder. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u11	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT DO YOU UNDERSTAND BY NEW STANDARDITY? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000127]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u12	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u13	Mr. President, what do you mean by new normality?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u14	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u15	Thank you, President. I remember that at the first public appearance I made that very Saturday when we approved the first state of alarm I said that we would only beat the virus when we found that therapeutic remedy or when science found that vaccine against COVID-19. In the meantime, what we have to do is to descale, reach that new normality, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore respect the health standards that experts, science, are transferring to us; that is, social distances or the use of masks, for example, when we use public transport. In short, all those issues that have logically become normal as a result of the emergence of this pandemic.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Esteban Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u17	Mr President, I do not hide that I do not like the term at all, it sounds to me like the title of an American television series exactly. For me normality is normality, that's what we have to tend to and there are plenty of things at stake. What cannot have, after eliminating the risk of a pandemic or once it is controlled, are restrictions in the field of rights; nor should there be restrictions or changes in institutional competition rights, in accordance with the constitutional order, or take advantage of such a reform with that excuse. I think we need to take action and, in prevention, we need to make sure that supplies do not do the same - and Europe has a lot to say about that - and I agree that we need to work with early warning systems. But above all, it's about getting back together economically. You have to clarify as soon as possible exactly what the European position is with regard to the financing that can be produced, because at the moment we still have nothing clear and we need to know what the margins of each of the institutions are, because the institutions will of course have to be protagonists in that recovery. That is why I remind you that it would be very urgent to make a concert commission. And it would have to be used to change the socio-economic bases as well. It did not take advantage of the crisis in 2008 and we see that they are very weak and with each bandage - which does not have to depend on the Spanish state, but can come from outside - it is questioned because we have weak economic areas. The reconstruction committee believes that this should be done. No one is hiding from us that there is a bad climate and, in fact, trying to reform issues in the health field, in that of dependence, care, etc., in the midst of the pandemic and without the necessary tranquility and serenity, does not seem to me the most appropriate. Reminds me of that: in time of tribulation, do not move. Finally, I would like to say that some institutions and even representatives of their coalitions in the Government have let themselves slip in the last few days that the Basque Country has moved to phase 1 by political criteria and not by technical criteria. I find these statements very serious and irresponsible and I ask you....
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u18	Thank you, Mr. Esteban Bravo. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Esteban, I want you to know, about the approach you make - and there is the Minister of Health - that yours is not the only autonomous community, that there have been others of different political colors who have criticized the decision that the health authority has taken, but, of course, the approach that the Government has always made is to decide on the basis of technical and strictly technical criteria, for nothing political, because we are talking about public health, we are talking about saving lives. With regard to the term new normality, indeed, if there is any logic to it, it is to warn citizens that we cannot lower the levels of protection, restriction and distancing that they require in order not to spread the virus, as we have had in recent weeks. I think it is shared by all your ladies and gentlemen - also by the presidents and autonomous presidents, with whom I meet every Sunday - that we cannot relax the messages that we transfer to the citizenry, we cannot convey to them that we have definitely defeated the virus because the virus remains there in society as a whole. I share with you, ladies and gentlemen, that the state of alarm for us is really a necessity, not a political project. We have not re-centralised any type of autonomy competence. There is, for example, the Minister of the Interior who has done an extraordinarily positive job of coordinating with the autonomous police, for example, with the Ertzaintza. There is the Minister of Health, who can defend, as we have done in this House, Your Honor, that of course the competences and health management in this crisis have remained in the hands of the autonomous governments. I mean with this, Your Honor, that we want to move towards that new normality with a different state of alarm, because it is indeed very different from the situation of eight weeks ago, but we need to complete this stage. From there, ladies and gentlemen, a political debate has to be opened in this House to see how we can strengthen these coordination mechanisms between the different levels of the administration so that these rebounds, if they happen, are as little as possible. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON OSKAR MATUTE GARCIA DE JALON, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES IT PLAY FOR THE RECENTRALIZING NEOLIBERAL LAW AND HIS POLICIES AGAINST THE MAJOR PROGRESSIST OF INVESTIGATION? [[File number 180/000135]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u21	Question by Mr Oskar Matute García de Jalón, MEP Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u22	Thank you very much, President. Mr President, at this point I believe that few people doubt that we are facing an epochal crisis and believe that, in the face of that epochal crisis, what is needed is clarity and determination. That's why we ask you a question that can easily be answered with a yes or a no: Do you bet on the re-centralizing neoliberal right and its policies against the progressive majority of the investiture?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u23	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I do not think that debate should be mixed up. We are talking, I understand, infer from your question, about the outcome of the vote on the extension of the state of alarm. And I told Mr Esteban before, and I also put it to his lordship, that the state of alarm is not a political project; our political project, the political project of a progressive government formed by the Socialist Party and the United Nations We can strengthen the welfare state; it is to extend rights and freedoms; it is to protect some rights that are called into question by the right and the right, for example, that of gender equality; it is to strengthen the role in Europe; it is to strengthen the role of Spain in the world, for example, by strengthening development cooperation; it is to promote reindustrialization under sustainability parameters, the just ecological transition; it is, logically, all that I defended from this rostrum precisely in my investiture debate and which was supported by the majority of its lords. That is the political project of this Government. By the way, I believe that this pandemic that you have described as the crisis of our lives, and indeed it is, shows that this road map, that this government programme with which we are presenting ourselves before you, is even more relevant in the coming years. And that is our political project, Your Honor; the other, the state of alarm, is simply and plainly a necessity for, from the constitutional point of view, to respond to a pandemic that for the first time has struck not only Spain but also the whole world. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u25	Mr. Matute García de Jalón.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u26	Thank you. Mr President, I did not refer to the state of alarm as much as to your willingness to reach agreements with the right. It is worth remembering, because we have to remember - I do not know if this is a crisis of our lives, but of course it is a crisis of time that I think transcends our own lives - that it was the right one that got the rich to be richer and the poor to be poorer during the management of the previous crisis, that 10% of the population would take up 90% of the country's resources, that 1% of the population would have more than 25% of the country's wealth, that inequality would grow, as the Bank of Spain itself pointed out, that care would become relegated from any facet of public and political attention. That's what the right-wings did and that's what we're afraid you can do again if you choose to reach agreements with them. In short, we must opt for a neoliberal model, which was that of the previous crisis management, which led countries to ruin and that led to the collective impoverishment of the population in the Spanish State, or to bet on a progressive front that can speak not so much of rebuilding as of transforming. Because in reality what it is about is to transform the current reality to achieve the new economic and social model and, above all, not to re-pay the crisis those who paid it in the previous crisis: young people, women, workers in general. And for that we have to take measures, measures that we see difficult to achieve with the right, measures that have to do with a new fiscal policy, such as the creation of a tax on wealth in a clear way and a tax also on the companies - which there are - that are obtaining small profits also during this socio-health management; to recover the money that was given to the banks, to denounce again the role or tithe of the stamp that the banks make when they receive money at 0.25 and hours later they sell it at 1%, obtaining a 0.75 net profit for doing nothing. We must also talk about care, the dimension of care, the economy of care in this new reality. It will also be necessary to talk about moratoriums on major works, so that we do not meet again with loudspeakers like that of large infrastructures that barely serve for nothing while people do not have to eat. We also need to talk about nationalising companies. We told him in the investiture and we tell him now with total clarity and determination: we are not here to accept the things we cannot change; we are here to change the things we cannot accept.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u27	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I believe that one of the mistakes on the left on many occasions is to talk about redistribution and forget about growth and job creation. This crisis - I said earlier - is a crisis that is affecting competitive sectors, unlike what happened in other crises. The residential construction sector, for example, suffered a housing bubble that exploded and, as a result, had a derivative precisely in the financial sector. Here we are talking about sectors that are clearly exposed to health restrictions. And here is the logic of the things that the Spanish Government is doing, not only creating this network of protection for families, but also creating a network of protection for businesses through the ICO lines, with 300 000 operations almost in what we have in the state of alarm and with more than 30 billion euros put in guarantees of liquidity to small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed workers. Secondly, for example, with temporary employment regulations or termination benefits for self-employed workers. Why? Because what we must sustain is that productive fabric so that when economic activity resumes they will lead economic growth and job creation. That's why, Your Honor, I think unity is so important. Unity saves lives, Your Honor, but also the political unity of all of us, parliamentary groups, can save many jobs and many businesses. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Cayetana ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT JUDGMENT DOES THEIR OWN ACTIVITY DESERVE TO THE FRONT OF THE COMMITTEE INTERMINISTERIAL COORDINATION CREATED BEFORE THE THREAT FOR THE PUBLIC HEALTH PRODUCED BY COLONAVIRUS? [[File number 180/000130]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u29	Questions to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Mrs Calvo, I am pleased to see you. It means that she is recovered, against what you said last Sunday: I came back earlier, against the judgment of the doctors, she came to say. I guess it was rhetorical, because otherwise it would be disturbing. He also assured that no one is going to evade his responsibility. Let's talk about yours. On 4 February, in the face of the virus, the Government established an inter-ministerial coordination committee and entrusted you with the crucial task of chairing it. Two weeks later you rejected the cancellation of the Mobile because, he said, the social alarm does not correspond to reality. On 8 March 17 deaths continued to encourage mass demonstrations, and today Spain is the European country with the most excess death, the most infected health care, the most severe confinement and the blackest economic horizon. That is why I ask you: What did you do, as responsible, in that decisive February to stop the pandemic?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u30	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, if you ask me for my performance in such personal terms, you will understand that I will humanly tend to be self-benevolent, so I will objectify it to you. That interministerial committee was established on 4 February and until 13 March it met six times, three of them with the presidency of the president himself, which is why we were prepared to declare the state of alarm in our country in just over a day and after the pandemic was officially declared by the World Health Organization to stop it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u32	Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Mrs Calvo, I have reviewed your agenda. Six times, he says. How many times do you say you called her? Six? Do you know how many times he shows up? Zero. Another ghost committee full of pseudo-experts, imaginary scholars and party mates. And that's what's really in her agenda: the premiere of the film "Adu", the informative breakfast of Mrs. Lastra, the presentation of a collection of speeches by the leader of the PSE, the table of assignments to Torra and various feminist acts; of course, the 8-M arrived and there was our life going. Look, Mrs Calvo, don't be fooled: more tourism has France and more traffic Germany. We're leading the excess of death because we're leading the forecast flaw. You're late, you're late. Their negligence is counted in thousands of broken lives and millions of ruined lives. Think about it. If you don't resign for this, then why? And now he'll surely accuse me of cursing the political sham. I ask you to tell your neighbor, Mr. Iglesias, who calls an adversary unclean, and the PSOE himself, who leads an obscene campaign against Madrid. The party of the Chinese false teas, the useless masks, the toilets without PPE, the opaque committees, the imaginary experts, the lies to CNN and the Spaniards, the ill-counted dead, the party of their lethal foresight should be more humble and even say: thank you, Ayuso; thank you, Madrid. But, finally, Mrs Calvo, I admit that not all responsibility is yours. She shares it with the one who recklessly appointed her to chair that barren committee. In fact, this agenda of hers not only details the activities of the first vice-president, it also clearly specifies her capacities. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u33	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, you don't like any March 8th, neither this, nor the previous, nor the previous, nor any March 8th. Go ahead. [[Applauds]] I'm not going to ask you to be reasonable, but I am going to ask you to be rational. You find everything always wrong with the whole Government and in all situations. That's an insult to reality and practically intelligence. You see, democracy is diversity and it is confrontation, but it is also cooperation and cooperation; never clearer than at the moment. You find it so difficult in your mental setting that even at this time you are not able to agree on something with me. What would happen if you found out that democracy does not legitimize us for this confrontation when our country passes by? What would happen to you, Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo, if I found something to match me? It would decompose his entire mental framework. But I will tell you what would happen in my case: I would be much calmer because we would both be more useful for Spain. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: IS THE GOVERNMENT COMPLETED WITH ALL THE MEASURES CONTAINED IN THE REAL DECRED TO AFFAIR THE CRISIS OF COVID-19? [[File number 180/000124]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u35	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Calvo, Madam First Vice-President, are you complying with all the measures announced and included in the royal decrees adopted during this crisis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u37	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rufián, of course. That is why we have reacted quickly, in many directions, with urgent legislation which we have brought to the House and which you have supported. It is precisely something that came out here this morning, in the questions to the President; it is that the situation that is going to drag our country, which has already dragged our country through the pandemic, is not a crisis from which we emerge with insolidity, without social justice, without equality, without protection to those who need it, while protecting our economy in order to get up soon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u39	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Ruffian Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Calvo, Vice-President, I would like to comment on three non-compliances and two proposals. The first, the ERTEs. You have extended that period until June 30. Oh, surprise!, turns out it doesn't depend on the state of alarm. I say this because we dropped a good one when we voted against 'your' state of alarm and not a state of alarm, because everything was linked to that, and now it turns out not. You now untie him, which we welcome. Above all, it supposes that there are seven hundred thousand people who have not charged it: first non-compliance. Second non-compliance: SEPE; there are three hundred thousand people who have not received their unemployment either. And third non-compliance: ICO credits. You have announced a line of public money credits for self-employed and SMEs, and the truth is that the bank, which is brokering, continues to practice usury for self-employed and SMEs, forcing these micro-enterprises and those companies that pull forward the country to buy packages, policies, life insurance. I would like to make two proposals to you. One is about family reconciliation. There are a lot of people who are being forced to go to work and who have no one to leave their children with. We ask them, once again, for a remunerated benefit for these people, so that they do not have to live with that obvious anguish. Second proposal: to stop, once and for all, the clock of unemployment. Imagine the anxiety it brings to hundreds of thousands of people who are claiming their unemployment benefit today, with the obvious impossibility of finding work, knowing that every day that happens is one day less of their unemployment benefit. We ask you, please, to stop that unemployment clock. In short, people don't eat ads, people don't eat press conferences, people don't eat hopes; they eat fulfillments. We ask you to comply. In short, let them abandon the artifice and return to reality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u41	Thank you. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rufián, we are indeed concerned about the issue of conciliation and the enormous difficulties that women and single-parent families are going to have with the young when the activity is re-started in another way in our country, and we reflect on that. But I will also say something to you: this Government has faced an unknown situation, without any precedent, without any route on which we and any other Government could support ourselves. We have had to respond in many directions, primarily in health care as a matter of priority with the alarm in our country. Respond in so many directions so quickly almost uniquely in the history of our country does not marry perfection, but some of the benefits you talk about are being fulfilled. Moreover, there are situations in which some citizen has recognized record time in an Administration to react and fulfill what is said. And, as you can imagine - and we can share - the state of alarm has been linked to some of the decisions we have made because the social and economic crisis was behind it. Let me tell you something about the debate at the previous meeting. The state of alarm is the greatest democratic guarantee that, when some fundamental right of the Spaniards is limited, it is decided in this House. In fact, the alarm is authorized by you, ladies and gentlemen. We are a great democracy and the Government used the most guaranteed and democratic path that it could use, with our Constitution in hand. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHAT FUNCTIONS WILL THE SECOND Vice-President HAVE IN DISCONFINATION? [[File number 180/000129]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u43	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Iglesias, all of Spain has been wondering who are the experts who advise the government. In other latitudes it would be you, Mr Echenique, Mr Monedero, who advised, yes, without much success, because those countries ended up ruined and with serious social crises. Here in Spain we don't even know who the experts decide. Many autonomous communities have moved from phase 0 to phase 1, and we do not know who has decided to do so. My question is why they hide their names, is it because they are negotiating with the health of the Spaniards to maintain the poor health of the government? Since the last time you and I spoke, what have been the concrete roles you have developed as vice president in this pandemic?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u45	Thank you, Mr. García Aegean. Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much for your question, Mr García Aegean. My duties have been to coordinate the social policies of the Government. This means that no one will be left behind in a health emergency situation that has caused a huge social and economic crisis, and it will be a pleasure and an obligation for me to explain to you the social shield measures that this Government has carried out to defend the general interest and to deal with this crisis in a way contrary to how the 2008 crisis was faced. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u47	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u48	Mr. Churches, do you know why you will be remembered in the management of this crisis? For his chair in the CNI; for trying to control the media; for his fights with Minister Calviño and Minister Escrivá; for jumping the quarantine, but above all for lying, together with Mr Sánchez, to the face of all the Spaniards. The only thing they are doing well is to appropriate the measures of the People's Party, because you have gone from protesting on the street against labor reform to taking the breasts out of its application; from voting against Rajoy's budgets to ruling comfortably with them, and what's left of it. And every time you quote the words'social cuts' you have to look to your right, you have to look at Mr Sánchez, because yesterday ten years of the greatest social cut in our history were fulfilled; ten years ago the Zapatero government lowered the salaries of the officials, froze the pressures and cut the social benefits, and the young Member Sánchez voted in favour. Your Honor, you can now talk to me about dialogue and hand-out while insulting Ayuso and Almeida, that is, your moderate and conciliatory speech which is more false than Mr. Sánchez's Johns Hopkins reports. As false as that social shield that tries to sell to the Spaniards, because it's just a driftboard that you and Mr. Sánchez are trying to climb in the middle of an ocean of incompetence. The last time his party put a social shield was in Greece and the pensioners couldn't get their money out of the bank. All Spain knows that when it rose from the Sun Gate and sat in the vice-presidency it forgot about the people; at that time you forgot about the people. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u49	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. García Aegean, the way in which you articulate your parliamentary speeches reminds me of the way in which Tristan Tzara composed poems. I confess that I find it difficult to follow the thread, but the artistic quality is enormous. I have the impression that it is clear here that there is a fundamental difference between you and us, and it is the concept of general interest with regard to the particular interest. We, surely with mistakes, surely with failures, believe that we are proving that we are defending the general interest. The President of the Government said this before, we have reached an agreement with the trade unions and the employer to extend the ERTE until 30 June. See that the employer disagrees with us in so many things, but knows how to negotiate and reach an agreement that protects workers and also protects companies. And that agreement also includes a ban on companies domiciled in tax havens being able to resort to such aid. And it poses a defense of a kind of patriotic entrepreneurship that pays taxes here and protects its workers. That is doing politics and defending the general interest. The vital minimum income, which you and your partners call Paguita, will serve not only to give dignity to many people who have difficulty reaching the end of the month, but also to favor businesses and self-employed people who have to continue billing. What we do, modestly - and with mistakes and we must be criticized when we do it wrong - is to defend the general interest. You, however, are news again today to defend the particular interest. It is very serious that Mrs. Ayuso is news not to live in a luxury apartment, that she has the right to live wherever she wants, but to pay for it. Because if she's not paying for it and a businessman is paying for it, then again we have a case of corruption. [[Rumors]] And I assure you that citizenship in a pandemic situation will not consent to more cases of corruption. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u51	Thank you. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JUAN LUIS PEDREÑO MOLINA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE THIRD AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT ARE THE EXACT PLANS OF THE GOVERNMENT REGARDING THE USE OF GEOLOCALISATION TECHNIQUES OF CITIZENS? [[File number 180/000132]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u52	Question addressed to the third Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation of Mr Juan Luis Pedreño Molina of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, at the beginning of the state of alarm your ministry announced the use of geolocation technology for the study of mobility applied to the health crisis. I ask you, what are the Government's plans regarding the use of citizens' geolocation techniques? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u54	Thank you, Mr. Pedreño. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u55	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question. The Government, from the outset, has tried to use all available instruments to try to combat the health emergency. Among them are different digital applications, which in no case consist in the monitoring of individual movements. These are applications that fully respect all European and national privacy and personal data protection standards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u56	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Pedreño Molina.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u57	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, I was specifically asking you about the platform that you in the ministry have called DataCOVID geolocation, which seems to be your bet on new technologies to help combat the pandemic. This, together with the application of self-diagnosis - which I suppose you were referring to - is an application that you know is late, that you know you have not been able to start it in time, and that you have taken the model that the Community of Madrid has to start exporting it to the rest of the autonomous communities. At the moment they have five autonomous communities, to see at what stage they end up implementing it. What exactly has the geolocation platform been used for? Because all we know is that the National Institute of Statistics - and not long ago, by the way - said that 85% of the people had stayed at home during the confinement. What's that for? Furthermore, the Minister of Health himself, Mr Illa, said that this would only be used if it brought some added value. First plan a project before you start it, don't start it and then wonder what it's for. I'll tell you what it's for. It has served to generate an alarm in the citizenry for the issue of totally unjustified geolocation; above all, also for statements here by the President of the Government himself in which he stated that this was only to be used to know that every person was where he said he had to be. You know that is not possible, because they are anonymous data and because of course - it is out of the debate - the government has to comply with the European regulation and the Organic Law on Data Protection. Have these data been used, for example, to plan for decontainment? Are they being used for the future, for tourism, for example? Madam Vice-President, if there is no test for what this application is for. Last week in the Commission you said that new technologies were going to be an instrument to combat the pandemic in some way. Of the two measures, the application of geolocation and the self-diagnostic platform, that is, one serves and has not been done and one has been done and does not serve, I tell you that this instrument in Spain has already been challenging for two months, and we have a lot that in Europe probably start now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u58	Thank you, Mr. Pedreño. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u59	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, the truth is that I am not very clear as to the purpose of your question. She was intrigued after hearing Mr. Married talk about wanting to implant the fingerprint. I was just as confused about your question. The truth is that we have launched a set of applications, the self-diagnostic one has been used to download all 112 systems and telephone consultation. I think it's been helpful. We started a pilot in Madrid and there are other autonomous communities that have subsequently joined this application. It seems to me that he is having a positive outcome, and I do not understand any criticism on his part. Secondly, the application of mobility control has responded to the main objective of pandemic control, because, as you know, I suppose, all epidemiological models consider people's mobility to be the most determinant element for the spread of the virus. That is, that we have established a mechanism with the cooperation of telephone companies without any personal data - I think you yourself have said so - and therefore without any risk to the privacy and personal data of people, which, together with the National Institute of Statistics, provides us with very valuable information about the movements of people throughout the national territory. It is a useful instrument during control, it will be a very useful instrument in descalation, and we will continue to use all the digital tools that can help us fight the health emergency and improve the lives of Spanish citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u60	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPUTY DON CARLOS HUGO FERNANDEZ-ROCA SUAREZ, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: WHY DO THEY NOT APPLY THE NATIONAL SECURITY LAW IN PLACE OF EXTENDING THE STATE OF ALARM FOR 50 DAYS MORE? [[File number 180/00134]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u61	Question addressed to the Minister of Defence. Question by Mr Carlos Hugo Fernández-Roca Suárez, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u62	Minister, why don't you apply the National Security Act instead of extending the state of alarm for another 50 days?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u63	Thank you, Mr Fernández-Roca. Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I think you know that the whole world, and Spain too, is experiencing an unprecedented pandemic, and you also know that all scientists say that the only way we can fight this pandemic is by confining citizens, as they are doing in all the countries of the world. And you also know - or you should know - that the only constitutionally possible way to do that is by applying the state of alarm. An application that has a constitutional rank, because this is reflected in the Constitution in article 116, and because it also has a regulation in the 1981 law. And besides, I will tell you that - I think you know that - that statement of the state of alarm is approved here in the Congress of Deputies. And the Congress of Deputies and the groups that have supported the state of alarm have taken into account the only thing that has worried this Government. Look, the only thing that has worried this government in this crisis has been saving lives, saving lives, I repeat. And that's what you should be aiming for. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u65	Thank you, Minister. Mr Fernández-Roca Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u66	Madam Minister, as a lawyer, you know perfectly well that there are other legal instruments that are alternative to the much more guaranteed state of alarm. The National Security Act, for example. Therefore, the fact that the Government has indicated that there is no legal alternative implies extending a bubble from the Executive itself. Our legal order is that the fundamental rights enshrined in our Magna Charter cannot be suspended in a general and permanent way, which is what you are doing. You have approved an undercover state of emergency, which encloses the exercise of up to eleven fundamental rights and public freedoms that assist us all Spaniards. There is no test of legal proportionality that supports this situation. Minister, have you asked the Attorney General of the State for a report that supports the extension of the state of alarm another fifty days? I'm afraid not. Because in this case you would have hidden behind that report. Cannot activate an alarm state sine die, the organic law of 1981 states that the maximum duration of the state of emergency is sixty days, and is that today it is sixty days since you passed an undercover state of emergency. Minister, do you know that the 2017 National Security Strategy has already identified pandemic risk as a real threat, and that this regulatory framework foresees the development of a health security strategy, that if it had been approved at this time would have been fundamental in managing the coronavirus crisis? But what have you done about it, other than nothing? Minister, why do they not correct the course one hundred and eighty degrees, cease to degrade our democracy depending on the exercise of fundamental rights and public freedoms, which are legitimate, and in this case apply the National Security Act in accordance with the provisions of article 23 of the Act itself? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u67	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u68	Humility, Your Honor, I ask humility. Here we do not come to a legal debate; whenever we want, you and I make a legal debate. [[Laughter]] Here we come to save lives, that's what the Government has been doing and that's what the Government is going to continue to do, although its group seems to be upset. And you see, here, here, this House has approved the state of alarm, which has a constitutional recognition, Article 116 - since you like the law so much - and that is precisely why, because the only objective of this government is to save lives, we understand that at this moment in which we have to continue the descalation is the only constitutionally valid instrument to remind citizens that they have to be very careful; that they have done a great job while in their homes, but that the virus is there, and we have to be very careful; the descalation is not easy, it is not simple. That's why I'm asking your group to tie their shoulders, to make no noise, it's not going to be that in the end they tell you that saying that when the devil doesn't know what to do, the tail kills flies, and believe me to say it with all due respect. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN BALDOVI RODA, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENTS: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO EQUALLY DISTRIBUTE FINANCING RESOURCES BETWEEN THE AUTOMOUS COMMUNITIES AND FACILITATE THEM SUfficientLY LIQUID, AT THESE TIMES OF GREAT NEEDS? [[File number 180/000120]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u69	Questions to the Minister of Finance. Question by Mr Baldoví Roda, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, this virus does not understand borders, territories, autonomous communities, but it does understand public resources to fight against it and its consequences. The more resources an autonomous community has, the more empowered it is to fight and help its citizens. Spain, and you know it, has an unjust, unequal, expired financing system: six years, enormously damaging to some autonomous communities, including its own, Valencian and Murcia. The Valencians have a GDP 15 points below the Spanish average, we are a poor community, and on top of that we contribute 1.5 million to the Global sufficiency Fund, the ones we contribute the most, and yet the Valencians are the worst financed: 198 euros below the average, 611 euros below the best financed. That is to say, the Valencians have almost EUR 1 billion less than the average to fight this epidemic; and yet in public health investment we are above the average. That is, we are poor, we contribute to solidarity as if we were rich, we are poorly financed, but we make an effort in public health above richer and better financed autonomous communities. Minister, do you intend to do anything to prevent the Valencians from ever paying for the financing?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u71	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. The first thing, Mr Baldoví, is that viruses do not really understand borders or political criteria, nor do they understand the grievances of some territories vis-à-vis other territories, and I think that this should be a maximum in the discussion and approach to issues, because sometimes we want to turn technical criteria into political criteria, or to make a situation that is frankly normal. I would like to say that this Government has done something about what I would have liked to have heard from it: this is the first time that additional EUR 16 billion is made available to the Autonomous Communities to try to compensate for the costs that have arisen as a result of this pandemic; expenditure on health or a decrease in resources due to the economic depression that this crisis entails. That, Mr. Baldoví, do you share that? Do you agree that that is good for the whole subsector autonomous communities? Secondly, you asked me whether you believed that the distribution proposed by the Ministry of Finance was equitable. Of course, he will never hear from this Government or from this Minister a criterion for the distribution of funds or a political criterion in relation to the application of certain technical criteria in the territories that do not pursue the general interest and that of every citizen, where he lives, he has the same rights and the same opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u73	Mr. Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u74	I propose something so that we all have the same rights and the same opportunities: an average leveling fund, which we are below, levels us at the average and so we will have the same chances of fighting this virus. Eye, we don't ask you to take anyone, we just ask you to match the average. Secondly, we are in favour of this 16 billion fund, but let there be an agreement on the distribution, which applies to the right-wing population, to the real, because this virus is essentially urban, and you recognise it when you have not let the main urban areas in Valencia go through phase 1. We therefore hope that out of that 10 billion health expenditure we will have 1132...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u75	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u76	Thank you very much. I repeat, Mr Baldoví: they are absolutely technical, objective, weighting criteria for health expenditure. I would ask you a question: if there was a rebound in the Valencian Community you would defend the same criteria that you are asking me right now, or does that depend on how each one goes, depending on the tables, the distribution by the number of people hospitalized or by the number of population? It seems legitimate to me, Mr Baldoví, that everyone defends the interests of their territory, but what does not seem legitimate to me is that it is changed in view of the fact that the economic situation in Valencia is in one or another environment. I do not think that should be the most important thing in the allocation of as much as 16 billion. Look, I think that citizens need unity, at the moment they do not want confusion, they want clear ideas from the public authorities. Let us not entangle, let us not invent problems that do not exist, let us simply bow our shoulders because the fight against this virus needs us all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u77	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF SERGIO SAYAS LÓPEZ, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENT: WHEN THE GOVERNMENT HAS PLANNED TO CELEBRATE A MEETING OF THE COORDINATING COMMISSION OF THE ECONOMIC CONVENTION TO AVOID THE PARTICIPATION OF THE FORAL COMMUNITY OF NAVARRA IN THE REPRESENTATION OF THE FUND OF 16 000 MILLION EUROS FOR THE AUTOMOUS COMMUNITIES ANNOUNCED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/000125]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u78	Question by Mr Sergio Sayas López, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u79	Minister, the government announced a EUR 16 billion fund for the autonomous communities in order to contribute to the social and economic reconstruction of our country. I would like you to ensure in your speech that Navarra will be able to participate in that fund, and also to say whether the meeting that is scheduled for tomorrow in the framework of the Coordinating Committee of the Economic Convention will fix the amount and the manner in which Navarra will be able to participate in this fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u80	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. The answer is, of course. You were asking me whether I was planning to convene the meeting, and you have already announced that the meeting will be held tomorrow. To the question of whether the meeting is for the purpose you propose to see how Navarra participates in that distribution of the fund and how we can take into account the unique situation of an outside regime, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u82	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Sayas López.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u83	Thank you, Minister. I thank you for having Navarra to participate in this fund. As you know, our community has been severely flogged by the coronavirus. It is true that today we are in more hopeful numbers because we have a strong health system, forged for many years, many of them with UPN governments; because we also have magnificent health professionals, and because the Navarro people have behaved exemplaryly. However, we still need the solidarity of all Spaniards in order to strengthen this health system and to implement aid to workers, self-employed people and businesses. The Economic Convention is an instrument regulating economic and financial relations between Navarre and the State as a whole. It is a historical instrument, but it also has constitutional protection and has two fundamental characteristics: first, bilaterality, and secondly, the pact. Navarra is a community of solidarity with the whole of Spain that contributes not only according to its inhabitants, but also according to its income. And that solidarity with which the whole of the Navarro people have always worked is today that which calls on the whole of Spain. Navarre has to participate in this fund sufficiently and fairly, but not only in this fund, but also in other aid which, at European level, can come. But, Minister, we have also heard and read in some media that one of the possibilities of financing this fund may be the remnant of the municipalities. I would like you to deny this information in your reply. As you know, our party is a municipalist party; it has very much the defense of municipal autonomy, and it does not agree with the government making policies with money that belongs to the municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sayas, I am not going to fall into the trap that you are inventing a news story so that I now dismiss it here, and it seems that it is you who have made a commitment to the government. This is older than coughing and I'm not gonna do it. I think the question is very interesting for you. That has not been said at any time, nor has a meeting been held to ensure that the funding of this fund comes from local funding. Never, at any time or in any medium has that information been transmitted. What is surprising, Mr Sayas, is that you do not come out of the astonishment, ladies and gentlemen of the right, for the fact that the Government of Spain has created a non-refundable fund, which is neither a loan nor an interest, and has made it available to the Autonomous Communities. For you this is a novelty of such characteristics that at all times you think there is a trap behind that background, and you are looking for where and at what time you are going to find that trap. Well, I'll tell you now. Do not continue to look; it is a fund without trap or cardboard that is destined to the autonomous communities so that they can compensate for the health expenditure, so that it is the Government of Spain that is in debt and not pass that debt on to the autonomous communities, to compensate for part of the economic fall that this crisis is going to cause also in the own resources of the autonomous communities. I tell you clearly: stop rubbing your eyes; that's right. This government is committed by the autonomous communities and the best expression is that it puts at its disposal EUR 16 billion, without any condition, so that they can continue to provide quality services to the citizens, basically the health service, which today is the pride of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u86	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WILL YOU FOLLOW USING YOUR MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR CONDITION TO DEBILITATE SPANISH DEMOCRACY? [[File number 180/00121]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u87	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, will you continue to use your ministry to weaken Spanish democracy?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u89	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr Gil Lázaro, after having already told you this minister that he does not prevail arbitrarily in breach of prison legislation, and that he does not illegally buy with public money the media protection; after having told you that he does not censor arbitraryly infringing neither the right of free expression nor the right to freedom of information nor the right to demonstration; also after having told you that it is not so irresponsible as not to protect all our public officials of the Ministry of the Interior - I take the opportunity today to congratulate the Civil Guard on its 176th anniversary - and after having told you that it does not unconstitutionally abuse the state of alarm, I have to tell you that this ministry, the Ministry of the Interior, and its minister - I have the honour of directing it - we only limit ourselves to ensuring the free exercise of the fundamental rights and freedoms of all citizens, and in this case by combining it with public health. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u91	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, we must have at least a great deal of waste to tell me what you have just said to me, especially since you are being the enforcer of the attack on the constitutional order that this Government is perpetrating by fraudulent use of the state of alarm, which has turned health confinement into a genuine, widespread closure of the Spanish population, with an absolute annulment of rights and freedoms, and with a curfew at eleven o'clock in the evening. You have given orders of espionage and censorship on the networks that you know are illegal orders, because so-called forward-looking investigations are prohibited in our legal system. Therefore, it would not be surprising that he was clandestinely doing the same with emails and phone conversations. You have given the Security Forces and Corps unlawful orders for coercive action against citizens who seek to exercise their rights and freedoms, and are therefore putting those professionals in a state of limitation in their relationship with citizens, as the spokesman of the Federal Police Union stated and warned yesterday. In short, you are implementing a repressive policy whose sole purpose is to prevent the Spanish from protesting against a useless, lying and sectarian government, whose disastrous action has caused thousands of deaths and national ruin. Therefore, Minister of the Interior, do not come to me with monks, especially when they now intend to prolong this state of alarm, that is, this police state. Due to the events in Madrid, Castellana, Núñez de Balboa and the beach of San Juan, VOX will convene on 23 May demonstrations throughout Spain. We'll do it legitimately, in cars, meeting the health requirement. And if you prevent them, if you dare to prevent them, you will show that the only thing that matters to this government is to protect itself against the Spanish and continue to exercise authoritarian power; what you call the new normality and that it is probably only the step towards an attempt to change the regime. You see, for democracy, for freedom and for Spain, VOX will continue to plant them facelessly and without any fear. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u93	Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Gil Lazarus. I will be very brief, but I will tell you that your speech is that of infamy and the grave accusation to a minister and a government of the commission of the most serious crimes. That's what you've been doing since your game. They echo lies, they generate rift and they generate hatred, but they do not make any proposals for action on the health crisis by worrying about the whole of our population, no measures due to the social and economic reconstruction that we want. I'm gonna end up telling you something. He is reminding me of ten years ago when the best Minister of the Interior who has had Spain, Minister Pérez-Rubalcaba, told you when I was a member of the People's Party that I saw him a lot in far-right discussions. Look where you are now. It is located on the far right. I hope there are not many current Members of the People's Party who follow their path. Finally, recalling also that appearance and with all respect to VOX voters, I will tell you that you, the VOX Parliamentary Group, without the coalition government of President Sánchez, without the Spanish Socialist Workers Party and without the United We can be nothing. [[Applauds]] - OF THE HOUSE OF CLAVELL'S HOUSE LÓPEZ, from the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which gives the Minister of Education and Vocational Training the right to education for children with special needs. [[File number 180/00131]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u95	Question addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mr Óscar Clavell López of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. Why is the right to education of children with special needs being curtailed?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u97	Thank you, Mr. Clavell. Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Clavell, no effort or cut. You will never find this government cutting rights, much less those children with special educational needs and not their families. What we propose is just the opposite: to give more resources to the centres in order to provide better and more attention. This does not mean any cuts, quite the contrary. Please, let's not go back to the day of the marmot. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u99	Mr. Clavell López.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u100	Madam Minister, you have very well marked your road map for special education centres, returning to your longing LOE of 2006. First step, economic asphyxiation; second step, emptied, and third step, closing. It is something that has been pursued for a long time and has now seen its opportunity to have the population confined in a state of alarm without being able to exercise their right to demonstration. You want to cover and through the back door introduce a law as important as that of education without giving voice to experts, platforms or associations and with total nightliness and lightness. The government of which you are a part has become the greatest liberticide in the kingdom, displaying authoritarian touches more typical of other times. It is you, Mrs Celaá, who in less time has managed to anger so many educational groups with your dark intentions to pass this law that harms, among others, the most vulnerable. Haven't you had enough with the 'Stop Ley Celaá' or 'Sánchez, don't close my school'? With his decisions he is flying through the air, once again, the most sacred thing parents have is to choose the education they want for their children. But who do you consider to be, Mrs Celaá, as much a minister as you are, to take over the children of this country? You eliminate the role of the family as a key and essential part of society, you put the partisan and ideological interests before the best interests of the child. For you is first the Socialist Party than the Spanish children. Minister, children are not a percentage, they are not a number, children are people and you are experimenting with them as if they were guinea pigs from India. With decisions like yours regarding special education centres you are acting against the weakest and that is called discrimination. Take disability seriously and stop playing with the most vulnerable, as you are doing with that lack of sensitivity. Don't look to hang a giant medal of inclusiveness on your chest at the expense of those children. Now more than ever inclusive yes, and special too. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u101	Thank you, Mr. Clavell. Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u102	Mr Clavell, your intervention cannot be more irresponsible and more unjust, more unfounded and also more provoking of unjust suffering in families. Nothing you've said is true. Firstly, one cannot ask for one thing and the other, one cannot sip and blow at the same time and, of course, one cannot be asking this Parliament to work and at the same time to say that it does not work. Here's a bill called the Lomloe. And do you know what we are following in the field of education? We have your law, Your Honor, with the Lomce. And you know what Lomce says? Well, I'll read it to you. Look at what the Lomce says: The schooling of this student with special educational needs in special education units or centres, which can extend to twenty-one years, will only take place when their needs cannot be met within the framework of the measures of attention to the diversity of the ordinary centres; only, Mr Clavell. And do you know what the project is saying that is currently being processed in this Congress? What it says is that we grant ourselves the ten-year deadline, obviously if this Congress approves it, to provide resources to the ordinary centres that need it, Mr Clavell, who need it, with a hearing to the families that you did not have, and also with a 5% of GDP funding scenario, which is in the eighth additional provision. That's what he says. Therefore, more resources, Mr Clavell, is the closure of centres? Say it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u103	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE FRENCH WOMEN'S WOMEN, OF THE CITIZEN'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO TAKE TO ENSURE THE PROTECTION AND ENFORCEMENT OF EMPLOYMENT BEFORE THIS COVID-19 CRISIS? [[File number 180/000126]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u104	Question to the Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u105	Madam Minister, what measures does this Government intend to take to ensure the social protection of workers and to promote the recovery of employment in the face of this health crisis?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u106	Thank you, Mr. Bal. Minister of Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u107	Thank you, Mr. Bal, for your question. As you know, the Spanish Government has opted for a strategy based on the maintenance of jobs and businesses in contrast to the previous crisis, in which they opted for that formula called external flexibility, which consisted of mass dismissal of workers. It is a strategy similar to that of Europe. In Spain, we have 520 000 companies with an employment of 3 300 000 workers, while, for example, Germany has 751,000 companies with more than 10 million employees in ERTE; Italy, 648 000 companies with an employment of 7 800 000, and France, more than 900 000 companies with an employment of 12 100 000. I want to thank your group, because you have well understood the importance of the ERTE tool, and of course I want to thank you for the work and the understanding. I think it is collective - as for other groups - the thought that this tool works to keep jobs and businesses. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u108	Mr. French Ball.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u109	Minister, yes, a few days ago I came up to that rostrum to explain that we were not going to support his royal decree-law and that, in fact, the ERTEs had to be disconnected from the state of alarm. After a month, you have rectified, and you have, moreover, done so with the cooperation of the social partners and with the slogan of dialogue. He has also had the elegance to recognize in public the work of Citizens and, therefore, my first words are to thank him for that attitude, because it is good news that millions of Spaniards are more calm thinking that they have the hope of being able to return to employment, because it is good news that they get off the ideological horse and try to solve the real problems of the Spaniards. But more needs to be done. Look, we were also asking you to unlink ERTE in sectors such as tourism, even from the fixed date of 30 June. Let's go that way. We have encountered an ideological barrier to dismissal for objective reasons. In times of economic boom we could discuss this dismissal, but not in times of crisis. You haven't banned dismissal, you've made it expensive. What you have done is that some entrepreneurs fall for insolvency, and you will have to explain to the workers that, by falling into insolvency, they will only be left with the help of the Fogasa, in their home, with fear and without employment, because you have abrogated the target dismissal. They're late for the ERTEs. There's been no way with the firing target. Do the self-employed or small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of this country, who rise every morning to work and who cannot get sick because they would no longer have income, offend you in any way? I'm telling you, disengage the help of the autonomous from the state of alarm. Consider mutualists and seasonal self-employed. Lower the limit of 75% for the special benefit, because if 50% is lost, you are not entitled?, what happens to those families where the income comes from two self-employed? Let us postpone the payment of taxes and forgive social security contributions. The question is: Are you prepared to negotiate these measures with us and with the other parliamentary groups that want, with the Minister of Finance, with the Minister of Economic Affairs, with the Minister of Social Security? If you want it, we'll sit down and negotiate. We have shown that the covenant is possible and we have shown that the covenant is good.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u110	Thank you, Mr. Bal. Minister of Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u111	Mr. Bal, I'm sure if the CEO and Cepyme thought what you just said they wouldn't have signed the agreement with the social partners. This Government has not rectified, what it has done is to continue working. This is the third agreement we have with the social partners, and I would like to call on this House to continue along that path. Yesterday we approved the second ERTE, the second generation: they will be extended until 30 June; in many sectors they will continue after 30 June; they will retain employment for up to six months, and of course we will monitor the control of each of the companies and see what needs they have. But allow me to reflect. I believe that the pandemic has left us with three major challenges, which are, first and foremost, an agreement for an employment policy based on stability, time for care, and also what has to do with teleworking. These are the challenges ahead. Let us learn from the social partners and legislate in this House to achieve this. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u112	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ELVIRA VELASCO MORILLO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT ADOPTING BEFORE THE HIGH NUMBER OF CONTACTS BETWEEN THE HEALTH PROFESSIONALS? [[File number 180/000133]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u113	Questions to the Minister for Health. Question by Mrs Elvira Velasco Morillo, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u114	Thank you, President. Yesterday we thanked my fellow nurses for their work on the International Day of Nursing and tomorrow the Medical Profession Forum will keep two minutes of silence in all the workplaces as a sign of gratitude to the colleagues who have lost their lives as a result of the COVID-19. Other health professionals have also left us. More than sixty health care providers have died and nearly 49 000 people infected. Minister, what measures is the Government taking in the face of the high number of infections of health professionals?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Velasco. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I would also like to begin by expressing my appreciation to all the healthcare professionals, who have had exemplary behaviour, recognized by all Spanish society, to deal with the biggest pandemic we have experienced in a hundred years. I would like to remind you that it is a pandemic that affects those countries that have the most trafficking in people, such as the United States, France, Italy, the United Kingdom or Spain, which have also seen how their healthcare professionals have been affected in a large number. From the outset, the Government has focused its efforts to assist health personnel in four directions. First, we have made an effort to provide all the personal protective equipment that required it, helping, in that sense, the buying action that the autonomous communities have also done; and this in two ways. First, by buying material in a very destitute market and, second, by activating the national manufacture; tomorrow, by the way, a plant is officially inaugurated in Mondragon, of the Mondragon Group, which will manufacture ten million masks per month. Secondly, giving priority to this group so that they can be tested for diagnosis. Thirdly, especially in this phase of descalation, separating COVID and non-COVID circuits in all sanitary facilities in order to avoid contagion in them. And fourthly, facilitating clinical trials; in particular, one of them is being conducted in sixty-two hospitals and primary care centres, involving more than 4,000 professionals, to study different pharmacological alternatives that can help prevent the spread of this disease. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u117	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Velasco Morillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u118	Minister, ever since the state of alarm was decreed the health care workers have been the great forgotten of the government. They were the first to see the health crisis and their lack of decision or late decisions have made us the first country in the world today with the largest number of people infected with health. We have the best professionals, recognized by all Spaniards with the applause of eight o'clock in the afternoon. In this crisis they are not heroes, they are people committed to their profession and who, during this pandemic, have experienced suffering, loneliness, psychological and physical wear and tear, with long working hours, and have met with a government that denied the health crisis, which did not act despite the recommendations of the WHO and the ECDC, which does not have the clinicians and does have a committee of experts unknown and far from the patients; which has failed them with the appropriate protective material with a malicious negligence, no PPE or test, as recommended by the WHO. They buy badly and without quality requirements, forcing health care providers to file complaints as a demonstration of their response to their management. With emergency recruitment, you have been unable to collect; for example, 821 million masks and you have only reached 12%. And what about intermediaries and suppliers. Nefarious have also been the work guides for professionals who were forced to join within seven days. And we got to the de-escalation without clear criteria or objective indicators. They require the autonomous communities to have a number of beds and nothing from professionals; or primary care, while spending on counsellors, non-paying health care workers COVID. Finally, health care providers need a minister who tells us the truth, who doesn't lie when he says the government doesn't hide anything; he hides experts and reports. I encourage you, as an epidemiological indicator, to follow the same path as your partner, Aragon's counselor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Velasco. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, this pandemic is like a mirror that reflects the best and worst of our society, the best and worst of our attitudes; at best - let's leave the worst for another day - there are healthcare professionals and the attitude of Spanish citizens. This example, the exemplary attitude of health professionals and the exemplary attitude of citizens, should lead to reflection, in particular to their group. I'll reach out again so that together, all together, we can help overcome this pandemic as we are. I again extend my hand to you, in coordinated work with the Autonomous Communities, to work together to provide our health care providers with what they need, which is what this Government is doing from day one, in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u121	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MACARENA OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH: HAVE THE HEALTH EXPERTS THAT CAN CELEBRATE AUTONOMIC ELECTIONS DURING THE STATE OF ALARM HAVE VALIDATED? [[File number 180/00123]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u122	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u123	Thank you, President. Minister, do health experts appreciate that autonomous elections can be held during the state of alarm?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, first of all, I ask you to convey to Mr Ortega Smith my wishes for an early recovery. I say this to you from the heart, please, in my name and on behalf of the Government. Secondly, at the beginning of this pandemic two autonomous communities had called an election, and they themselves left this call to an end, and I believe that with very good judgment, because the conditions were not met. We are now in a phase, the phase we have popularly called descalation - if you want, transition to the new normality - in which we must act with great caution, we must act on the basis of the evolution that the daily data of the epidemic in the different territories of our country are reporting. I am sure that everyone will act with utmost prudence and we will see if the evolution of the epidemic allows us to hold elections in the near future, which I would like because it would mean that we continue on this path of overcoming the epidemic in our country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u126	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Olona Choclán.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, 15 March, with 127 deaths from coronavirus throughout the country, France decides to hold its municipal elections, yes, by adopting extraordinary health measures. Result: half a dozen dead mayors, 56% abstention, a historical record, and of course the spread of contagion throughout the country. Spain, Congress of Deputies, 6 May: We are not txoriburus - with this solemnity the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party, of the Basque Nationalist Group, addressed to this House requesting its support for the amendments recorded - we are not unbrained. For the sake of interest, they called for support for the holding of autonomous elections during the state of alarm. That question should be asked to the relatives of Joaquín and Alberto, who are still buried in the landfill of Zaldívar because the PNV refused to accept the help of the UME; ninety-seven days of silence. The reality is that the Basque Nationalist Party appeared before this House last week to do what it knows best, which is to extort Spain, and the indignity, the obscenity, is that 191 Members of this House supported that the Jeltzale agenda, the political agenda, prevails over the life and health of the Basques. The Basque Nationalist Party, from Sabin Etxea, in the following days what it did was to extend the propagation machinery once again, and I will stop in particular in the statements made by Mr Koldo Mediavilla in Onda Vasca on 7 May, and I quote literally: We believe that if in July we are going to be willing to take a vermouth, how we are not going to vote, that is a fundamental right. The reality is that the Basque Nationalist Party needs to hold its elections in July because it fears a tripartite between the PSE, EH Bildu and Podemos, and they are aware - as you are, because the streets and police reports already say - that autumn will be hot. I have agreed to the medical report that Mr Urkullu will share tomorrow at the party table, and this report says that, put to hold elections, better in July than in autumn or winter because we do not know how the pandemic will evolve. [[shows a document]] You, Minister, stated on 24 April that autonomous elections could not be held in the Basque Country until the pandemic was controlled. The reality is that their change of mind responds to political and non-health issues, as well as favoring territories such as Vizcaya to the detriment of Malaga or Granada - my Granada - with clear prejudice to the Tropical Coast and the Costa del Sol. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u128	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, the decisions taken by the Ministry of Health and the Government throughout the process of de-escalation, of transition to that new normality, are decisions based solely and exclusively on technical criteria, on scientific criteria; on scientific evidence, which is not absolute, because we have always said - and must remember once again - that there are many things about the virus that we do not know. That is the only criterion by which we make our decisions and the only one that will guide what we will have to take in the next few days. Having said that, I would like to remind you of three issues: firstly, the absolute respect of the Government and of this minister for the competitive framework and the political autonomy of the autonomous communities, which has never been seen in question even during the state of alarm as much as others want to see the opposite. Therefore, absolute respect for the competition framework and the political autonomy of the autonomous communities. Secondly - as it cannot be otherwise - also absolute respect for the right to vote consubstantially to our political system, and thirdly, something that is obvious, but also worth remembering, and that is a lot of prudence and absolute priority for people's health. We're going to see how things evolve and I'm completely sure that everyone - everyone - will always act with prudence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u130	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u131	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. First, urgent interpellation by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge to present their responsibilities as coordinator of the de-escalation process, as well as the general lines on which this new phase is to turn. Mr. Echaniz Salgado has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. The People's Parliamentary Group calls on the Vice-President of the Government, who is responsible for coordinating the process of descalation, in the face of the real chaos, in the face of the real discomfort that the Government's decisions have provoked throughout Spanish society. It is not so much a question, ladies and gentlemen, of pointing out the responsibilities - which I believe the Spanish identify perfectly - but of knowing from you what we can still expect from this government. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with the certainties, with the objective facts, with the uncontested facts, with the facts contrasted day after day by our Spanish society. The first certainty is that Spain disregarded all the international alerts that came, since early January, from the European ECDC, from the World Health Organization, from all the prestigious scientific journals, and while most countries responded to that alert and got to work, Spain did not. The government of Pedro Sánchez, while countries such as Portugal and Greece - which are east and west of Spain, Madam Vice-President - took it seriously, ignored, nor prepared itself in the collection of material, nor prepared a plan, nor banned travel, nor did it screen at airports, did nothing. Portugal confined before Spain; today Portugal has one for every 10 Spanish cases, today Portugal has one for every 30 Spanish deceased. The same could be said of Greece; today Greece has one for every 100 Spanish cases and one for every 300 Spanish deaths. What did you know, Madam Vice-President, Portugal or Greece that the government of Pedro Sánchez did not know? The government of Pedro Sánchez was at that time in Spain receiving the Venezuelan regime, distributing up to twenty-two ministries and their offices, complaining about the abolition of the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, and encouraging demonstrations throughout the country. Madam Vice-President, it is also certain that the 8-M - two months after the outbreak began and with 589 cases and 17 deaths - the Government encouraged more than 480 demonstrations, with some 600 000 people appelotetonized, without a safe distance, prioritising its political agenda to the health consequences, which were then devastating. The second certainty, Madam Vice-President, is that the government did not draw up a plan. He did not trace it because they believed that Spain was not going to have beyond some diagnosed case, at best, and that is why they did not design an early detection system with a test and that is why they did not collect necessary material or equipment, so they did not promote the Spanish, national manufacture of these elements, even disadvising diagnostic tests. Meanwhile, autonomous communities such as Madrid closed the day centres on 6 March or the schools five days later and others took steps ahead of the Spanish Government, which even resisted their adoption and threatened the same communities. As soon as it happened on 8 March, ladies and gentlemen, and the outbreaks of contagion were already out of control, they began, that day, in a controlled manner, with all the improvisation with which they have illustrated to us the Spaniards during these more than two months. There was no longer room for selective micro-intelligent approaches, as in other countries, here we could only adopt a thick approach, a macro, rude approach, confining the entire population to a home arrest, an escalation that became a genuine sport of risk because, as in the mountains, they lacked suitable material for climbing, without protective equipment, without cold equipment, in this case, without safety equipment. The third certainty, Madam Vice-President, was the government's clumsy decision, when there were already 136 dead, to establish itself as a single command, as the only competent authority, putting in front of a minister who was carrying the 'L' and who knew nothing of health, and to whom they put to drive an eight-axle trailer. The results are already known: centralization of purchases without any previous experience and without equipment to do so; requisitioning of material in factories, which generated alarm and complicated the situation; paralyzing of material in customs, which damaged the climate and created distrust in importers regarding Spain and paralyzed new shipments, and, instead of trusting in the biotechnology industry and in the Spanish laboratories serious, experts, certified, that offered to you, they preferred to select a series of chiringuitos, that is, all neighbors of the minister's people. Result: false diagnostic tests for hundreds of thousands, defective material, failed or incomplete kits, masks removed, overprices, millionaire commissions and, really dramatic, which are still scarce today, Madam Vice President. You've always lied. If they had bought 400 million materials, they would have arrived in this country three planes daily for two months, since the epidemic began in our country; lies to the OECD, lies to the Johns Hopkins, negligence, Madam Vice President, irresponsibility and ineptitude, resulting in 27 000 dead and 270,000 affected. And 48 000 infected health professionals, world record for their history and currency. The fourth certainty is that, knowing since January that the virus was going to seriously affect the elderly, they did not take action after taking that unique command neither of triage nor of handling and did not even give them protective material. The result is also known: more than 16,000 unprotected, dead without a test, without material, without company and without a funeral, Madam Vice President, greater than those who have lacked the means to end their lives in peace and the company of their own. The fifth certainty, Madam Vice-President, was said by her own chairman: they had no plan B. They needed a state of alarm tailored to develop their plan, which was to limit Parliament, justice and freedoms, eliminate the Transparency Portal, create a permanent television set in Moncloa for their daily No-Do, pursue criticism and discrepancy, increase the Government's high-ranking posts to 24 with a 46 per cent increase in spending in the twenty-three ministries, violate the CNI, the Passive Classes, officials and even education. Or link the aid to your alarm plan. All this, Madam Vice-President, will remain for the annals of your history. The sixth certainty is that 300,000 people are still not charged for ERTE today. They were deceived by saying, first, that in April; then, that the 4th of May; then, that the 10th of May, and today they still expect their management in order to feed their families. Today we have six million Spaniards without work, 37% of the workers without being able to do so and some companies closed, 6000 every day, to which you told them that if they were not comfortable, they would not open. Ladies and gentlemen, the seventh certainty is that, despite the WHO recommendation for testing, testing, testing, as they did not have a test, they said there was no need for testing. The advantage to the Government is that this would make it possible to camouflage the actual deceased and the failed purchases. The disadvantage, yes, for the Spaniards is that unscaling without data is like going down a mountain without harness, without ropes, without helmets, without nails, without muskets, Your Honor. Descaling without a test, Madam Vice President, and without a study of seroprevalence, without knowing the immunity of the population, is to act blindly, is to be guided by the irresponsible strategy of proof and error. Going to work in a hospital without knowing if you are infected is an anguish and anxiety that causes personal, family and professional terror; ask, Madam Vice President, the schools of doctors, pharmacists, nurses, scientific societies or health unions. That is why you have changed committees, plans and criteria several times. Today, Madam Vice-President, we hope that you, as coordinator of the de-escalation, will report to us on the composition of the committee of experts. We do not know if they are Nobel Prize winners or why they hide them, as they tried to hide the contracts of failed material, but the Spanish society has the right to know it because they are the ones who decide about their life, about their business, they are the ones who decide about the recovery of their freedoms, and they will know it, they have no doubt. And the eighth certainty is that you climbed late and wrong, and you never thought about the descalation and so it is resulting, with absolute and permanent changes, misadjustments, lack of uniformity, and so it is impossible to interpret reality, behavior, tendencies or make a real X-ray, key to the descalation. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, in the face of this chaos, the People's Party has developed a constructive, alternative, positive plan that will prepare us for the future, so that none of this will ever happen again in Spain in this irresponsible and unwise way, to prepare us for future pandemics, to rebuild our health system - the Cajal plan -, to activate Spain, to enhance our research, to equip us with a national strategic reserve of material, to create a national public health agency, an alert infrastructure based on population stratification, active tracing, masks for all, protection, Your Honor, to the most vulnerable in health with massive tests, fingerprints and many economic measures. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, all the Spaniards are having a bad dream. Many, unfortunately, will never wake up from him. We all know who led us to this nightmare, for lack of foresight, for inability to face it, for lethal mistakes, but also for pride and lies. Today, Madam Vice-President, you have the opportunity to acknowledge the grave mistakes with humility, finally give names to the hidden committee and change the despotic, abusive and intolerable attitude of this government. Do it for the good of all Spaniards. Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u133	Thank you, Mr. Echaniz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Linares. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u134	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Echaniz, the COVID-19 epidemic is already one of the most difficult episodes in our country's recent history. Unfortunately, there are many families who have lost their loved ones without just being able to say goodbye to them and many people who have been sick and had a bad time, some very bad. Many are also concerned about uncertainties about the future, and in this harsh context it is impressive to see how a vast majority of citizens, including health professionals, basic services professionals, farmers, have maintained an amazingly compromised response capacity. To all of them I want to express appreciation and gratitude and tell them that they are not alone. The vast majority of Spanish society is with you, grateful and supportive, affectionate and hopeful, and so is your Government. Mr Echaniz, I regret that you have been left with an unfortunate selection of chascarrillos, half truths or misreadings of reality, when in fact the most important message, valid for each day, is also central to the reasons why Portugal has managed the crisis well, is that it acted soon, that the government was supported by the parliamentary arch and that it was able to make coordinated management from Lisbon to the whole territory from the very beginning. The World Health Organization says that one of the keys to success in the fight against COVID lies in assuming the importance of a committed citizenship, understanding that to a large extent the containment of the pandemic depends on the responses we each give and on the ability of the nation and its institutions to act together and together. We come out of this together; together as citizens, as institutions, as political forces. They want to see us together. Together we respond better, we go further and face with much more efficiency and equity the answers we need. It is the first time in our history that we have faced a health and socio-economic crisis of these dimensions with such important social and economic support, with such a clear vocation on the part of all public authorities - the Government of the nation, autonomous communities, local authorities - and such a committed and mobilized civil society. This will continue to be fundamental to what is ahead of us. The crises come almost always without calling them, the important thing is the way they face each other; each one is portrayed. The Government does not encourage demonstrations or concentrations, the Government has sought a rapid response and so far has been very painful. Now we see the horizon, we know that we have passed the worst, but we must not lower the guard and concentrate on strengthening the capacities to keep the virus out and invest in reconstruction. We need a solid, broad, as broad a basis as possible to tackle the reconstruction of our economic and social model without leaving anyone behind. In March, the Government made a major political decision: to bet on health and life, while ensuring economic support for families and businesses. We are convinced that this is a decision with high social support. As all my cabinet colleagues - the President of the Government, the Vice-Presidents, the Ministers of Finance, Inclusion, Labour, Health and the rest of the members of the Council of Ministers - have been grappling with measures of an estimated EUR 139 billion over the past few weeks. With aggregate figures, only measures taken in the field of labour and social security have provided coverage to 30% of the working population, a further drop in GDP of 3.5 points has been avoided and employment has been maintained for three million workers. It won't be enough to cover the terrible impact on all fronts, but it will be an injection of support to alleviate the consequences. In the coming weeks, the new social agreement for the extension of ERTs to reintegrate into work, the approval of minimum living income, the basic income that the Government is designing to support the most vulnerable groups and the provision of a fund of 16 billion euros so that the autonomous communities can finance the extraordinary costs that they have incurred because of the management of this crisis. My responsibility for these weeks has been twofold: on the one hand, the proper management of the competences of my ministry, ensuring the basic supplies of water and energy in our homes, and, on the other hand and simultaneously, supporting, like the rest of my colleagues, Minister Illa. On March 25, the President of the Government instructed me to accompany Minister Illa in the preparation of the strategy back to normal, once we had doubled the curve. The de-escalation plan was conceived from the outset as an indispensable complement to health management. It has been a complex, integrative process of multidisciplinary approaches and perspectives, in which there has been and needs to be progressed with caution, facilitating recovery gradually. We have heard from academics, experts, social agents and public administrations, and we will continue to do so until the end. We will be delighted to hear them in this dialogue. There has been social dialogue, sectoral discussions with academics, with experts, with third-sector organisations, which have been frequent in recent weeks. The first talks are devoted to understanding and defining the preconditions for starting the descalation, which we have called `indispensable strategic capabilities' before we can start this process. Immediately, we broaden the work to understand its external dimension, economic impact and social impact. It was a work with administrative and external experts, with different sessions of discussion and exchange of impressions; experts, whose names, moreover, were made public and, in fact, some of their experiences in this regard are being commented on by the media. Dialogue with social partners was also key, especially in initiating the return to work on safe terms after the end of the 15-day paid leave, promoting and accompanying the co-responsibility of companies and workers in guaranteeing safe work places and safe travel to work. Immediately afterwards we joined the last phase in the preparation of the plan. On April 20, just as the President of the Government had committed himself, Minister Illa and I presented the basic ideas of our proposal to the councillors of the autonomous communities at the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, and requested the transmission of ideas and proposals from all of them. That same week we worked on the realization of indicators and, after a first presentation on Friday 24 to the interterritorial council, we remained to close the panel of indicators on Monday 27, with a dialogue and with a strictly technical decision between technical representatives of the ministry and the interterritorial council, that is to say the different health councils of all the autonomous communities, Ceuta and Melilla. Meanwhile, the drafting team of the plan, composed of Minister Illa, the Secretary General of the Presidency and myself, together with the support of our ministerial teams, drafted a first draft incorporating more than 80% of the proposals of the Autonomous Communities, the panel of indicators agreed with them and the contributions of the various government departments that had had sectoral discussions with those areas, with those representatives of society with whom they had a more direct relationship in accordance with the functions entrusted to them. The Plan for the Transition to a New Normality, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 28 April, is the result of this work and the proposal to facilitate the process in the coming months. We have chosen to recognize from the beginning the uncertainties that exist around the virus and its behavior, and set out the premises for making decisions on how to recover economic and social well-being on the basis of health security, without bandages: if one day we want to ban and another day we want to leave. The plan details key aspects, such as the strategic capacities to which it referred earlier or the indicator panel, the system of governance or social, economic, mobility and international dimension of business recovery, in order to finally propose the different phases and the set of measures for each phase. There are many complex aspects that need to be agreed with the authorities, especially the health authorities, but also many aspects that require understanding, dialogue, learning and nurturing with the different sectors involved. We have done so with autonomous communities and local authorities, underlining the desire for co-responsibility and co-governance: nine meetings of presidents, two or three meetings a week with councillors and technicians from autonomous communities, meetings with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, talks with the mayors of the cities most directly affected, as well as a permanent dialogue with the sectors through the various responsible ministerial departments. We have developed a flexible plan to ensure that the needs we are identifying are met, as well as the impact of the measures being addressed. In the development and implementation of the plan, the co-governance chapter to which I referred earlier has a priority role. Perhaps this is the most unique element, more different from the rest of the plans of the countries in our environment. In our view, it is fundamental; it has always been, but now we see it. For more than twenty years, for forty, on many occasions, in relation to some functions, there are issues as important to our daily lives as health, residences, education, social services, which depend on the autonomous communities. Therefore, the follow-up, the conversation, the analysis shared with the councillors of the autonomous governments, the mayors, is essential to understand the state of our health, our residences, the reaction capacity of the public administrations, the importance of caring for collective strengths, the shortcomings or weaknesses that deserve reinforcement. Yes, it's time to reinforce all this. This week we have taken an important step forward; we have embarked on a new stage in which the autonomous communities are making responsible progress in descalation, strengthening the early detection system, isolation of positives, reduction of contagion, tracing of contacts or strengthening of assistance capacity. The decisions on the phase change are the result of joint and bilateral work by the technical teams of the Ministry of Health and the councils, which, in most cases, have coincided in diagnosis and proposals. Being in one phase or another is not a competition, it follows criteria of health prudence to avoid the risk of some rebound that collapses the health system. There is nothing safer for the economy than trust and health. The descalade is not only a return to normality, it must also be the preparation for an economic recovery that leaves no one behind. Since the adoption of the plan, we have worked with fellow cabinet members, always giving priority to the criterion of health security and, in principle, guided by the outline of phases and measures in the elaboration of the orders that have successively been adopted to facilitate the gradual opening of our social and economic activity. Economic recovery will be faster and firmer if it is done properly. Much remains to be done ahead, including key aspects of our daily lives such as education, reconciliation, social services, care for the elderly, children and vulnerable. The transition process is beginning and from the Government it continues to count on all the actors; we will be pleased to receive that Cajal plan to which you alluded. We do not yet know when we will have a vaccine or treatment, but the research bet must be a constant. Until then, with all caution, we must invest in a new phase, recovery, reconstruction, looking to the future and to the citizens, especially the younger ones, many trapped by the previous crisis and at risk of expulsion at present. We owe them the future and it will be easier with you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u135	Thank you, Madam Vice President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Gloria. Mr Echaniz Salgado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President of the Government, you have not answered to us who are the experts who advise you on the descalade. Allow me, as you have spoken of Portugal, to tell you, Your Honor, that in order to generate confidence, that in order to generate security, a Government must be based on exemplaryness, effectiveness, transparency, objectivity and, also, on the search for the common good. This means that you must flee from irresponsibility, from negligence, from bad faith, from occultism, from sectarianism, from disloyalty, from the attempt at permanent fracture that you have been practicing for too long and from all the qualities that adorn your daily performance. Also of the lie, because we already know that you believe that the excess mortality recorded could be due to a huge traffic accident, but believe me when I tell you that you are also alone in this. The cold of responsibility, the weight of conscience in the face of a failed management, is enormous, even if it is lacking, and no one has been unnoticed. They came to give elections to the previous government and have shown as no one the shames of a naked king and a government, or two very numerous governments, unable to dare to tell them. Ladies and gentlemen, the escalation was a disaster, because they thought that to govern was to divide the constitutional and territorial cake, which was to act for only half of the population and to divide the budget. We've all paid for it, though we've paid for it. You chose to lock up the population instead of protecting it and you did it late. According to FDA figures, this would have prevented 17 000 deaths and 143 000 affected. But the descalade, Madam Vice President, is getting even worse, and it's no wonder when you choose those rope partners, who won't let you sleep. Madam Vice-President, getting unity, going together, getting consensus is not just a theoretical or rhetorical resource to use when one suits one against the political adversary boldly. Unity is an exercise of seduction, it is an exercise of leadership, it is an exercise of frankness and it is an exercise of responsibility. Quite the opposite of insult, contempt, lies and disloyalty. You are not credible, Madam Vice-President, you are not sincere, if you had not taken another attitude from the outset. And the worst thing about you is that you would like political opponents and even Spanish society to be guilty of their grave mistakes, and that, believe me, doesn't hang up. Ladies and gentlemen, today Spain is infinitely worse than when you came to the government in economics, employment, health and welfare. No wonder, it's not a coincidence, it always happens in the 21st century. The left is always ruining Spain, always, on all occasions, has never been different. Yesterday we celebrated ten years - the president of the People's Party has said - since Pedro Sánchez and Rodríguez Zapatero approved the freezing of pensions, the reduction of salaries of officials, other cuts in social benefits and other similar measures. And they will do it again, it's the myth of Sisyphus, it's the new normality. Meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen, you continue to seek hysterically alternative culprits, to dilute your responsibilities, to put out the caceroladas and even to hide the mourning, without looking in the mirror of pride and incompetence; you will know. But let me tell you that, regardless of whether the opposition, whether the Court of Auditors, whether the courts of justice and whether each of the Spanish families are accountable - because the mistakes have cost lives, the mistakes have cost lives -, everything that has happened these months, everything that is going to happen in the coming months, and also years, everything that they have tried to take advantage of this terrible epidemic, Spanish society will never forget, Madam Vice-President. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u137	Thank you, Mr. Echaniz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Linares. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u138	Thank you, President. Mr. Echaniz, irresponsibility, negligence, insult, occultism, disloyalty, contempt, hysteria, lies, disaster, are some of the words you have just spoken. The truth is, I appreciate the tone, but if I'm honest with you, I don't recognize in your words moderation or ideas or proposals; I was very happy when I heard you talk about that Cajal plan. I do not recognize either the People's Party or the centreright in Spain. Interventions like yours could be signed by extremism or an anti-system group. I am progressive, but I am a Democrat and I believe that there is a need for the centreright in our country. I don't like that the worse, the better. It sounds to me like other times, to Mr Montoro when he said that: let the economy fall, that we will already recover it. They are wrong, the worse it is for all of Spain and the better it is for no one. You and I are neither rivals nor adversaries because there is only one thing we have to deal with together, which is the virus and recovery of our country. We must not and cannot go into reproaches of this magnitude. I believe that the Spanish community needs a united response to the changes it needs, the major priorities, the major commitments and concrete solutions; that is what we need to discuss. It forgets something very important, nothing after all this will be the same again; we must be prepared to face global and country challenges in the best possible conditions, not to lose opportunities, to be working side by side by side by the Spaniards. Speaking of patriots and Portugal, you surely remember that the president of the conservative Portuguese Social Democratic Party, the first political force of the opposition, sent a letter to all its militants saying that attacking the government is not patriotic; he called for the union of the country. In my opinion, I was saying: this is not a suitable time to maintain a position that is ethically incorrect, it is not a patriotic position. Just like here! Democratic Spain was built from unity and must be rebuilt in the same way. That is why the centreright has a very important role to play in this phase of the descalation and in the reconstruction that will follow. In the midst of this crisis there are people who are distressed by the disease and it is not worth hiding, trying to defend what you did not do in the past or in the autonomous communities that still govern. There are many people who feel relatively calm about their economic future, but there are many who do not. There is a protected Spain and another that feels the unprotectiveness that comes upon it and that fights for others - those who are at the head of institutions - to find solutions to protect it. We know that we need to think about how to respond reasonably and let them sleep peacefully, they and their families. Of these people, of the people who have their lives in vile, of that unprotected Spain is what to talk about. All of them must find their specific response within the great collective response that we must give to the economic and social reconstruction pacts. We will do so soon - I said earlier - with the minimum vital income, with those answers with which we have been accompanying the process of climbing and descaling, but it is not enough and the wider the consensus - I repeat - the better, the easier the answer will be. We also need to talk about this in the reconstruction pacts, and it is not appropriate to stay out of it. I ask you to move forward, to support reconstruction. They share with us that plan they say they have. Let us talk about what public officials should do to anticipate the changes, to bet on the collective, the capacities and the reaction capacity of our country, on how to implement with equity, with equality, trying to leave no one on the road, the answers in terms of digitization, education, biological threats, multilateral cooperation. Let us talk about teleworking; let us think about how to deal with education in new capacities; let us talk about health, telemedicine; let us talk about how to relate to our environment, how to build a resilient industry, how to defend biodiversity, how to work in habitable cities or the phenomenon of depopulation; let us talk about connectivity, mobility or the future of transport. We go in together and we go out together, the important thing is how to deal with crises. Quit questioning every decision, every proposal: if it's A, because it's A; if it's B, because it's B, and if it's C, because it's C. Give what you say, when you say it or how you say it, it's always the opposite. That is not a way to find answers to the problems we have to face. Let us seek with moderation, with proposals, with ideas, what are our country's best capacities to deal with a crisis, an emergency like the one before us. When this happens, they will have us next door; when the opposite happens, they will obviously face us, not as adversaries or enemies, but as responsible public representatives that we must ensure for the whole of a democratic Spain that was built from unity and must be rebuilt in the same way. I'll reach out to them again. We'll be delighted to work with you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u139	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO EXPLAIN IF THE SECOND CHAIRPERSON OF THE Iglesias P.O.P. intends to use the current crisis to weaken the foundations of SPAIN DEMOCRACY. [[File number 172/000028]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u140	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group, for the government to explain whether the second vice president Pablo Iglesias intends to use the current crisis to weaken the foundations of Spanish democracy. For your defence, Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, 15 days ago in this House something really worrying happened; it happened during a session of control of the Government, in an inquiry on a very serious issue, of real social emergency, which is shaken and ashamed of Spanish society for its cruelty and immorality. The defendant was the most responsible for the residences of the elderly, the Minister of Social Affairs and Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pablo Iglesias, who, instead of responding, as was his obligation, acted by absolutely losing the roles, forgetting that he is now part of the Executive and that he is not here to oppose the opposition, but to govern; forgetting who he is and who he represents and offering a regrettable spectacle, which did not go unnoticed for the vast majority of the media in this country, although it seems to him to be normal for the presidency of this House to be insulted, slandered and threaten not only the Members of the third most voted political force in this House, but also the four million Spaniards who freely placed their ballots in an urn, in democracy and under the protection of our rule of law. Even so, I am not here today seeking revenge, Mr. Iglesias, nor, of course, to rise up to you, telling you things as terrible or as out of place as those you told me from this rostrum the other day for your shame, than for mine. In fact, Mr. Iglesias, I come to ask you simply for an explanation, because, if everything I said to you had not been true, you could have denied me, you could have given me other information and somehow justified me the tragedy we are experiencing, but you did not, because you couldn't, because everything we denounced here was true. And that is why, Mr. Iglesias, I want to ask you today: if I didn't tell you more than the truth, why, instead of giving explanations or just shut up and bend your head, did you decide to assault us so violently by taking the worst out of yourself? Why did you respond by attacking four million Spaniards who are not to blame for what I said here, in this rostrum; four million Spaniards for whom you have an obligation to govern; four million Spaniards to whom you have a duty to protect and to seek the greatest possible well-being? Is it not true, Mr. Iglesias, that the number of dead in residences produces real chills? Is it not true that residences have not been allowed to make referrals from their residents to hospitals? Is it not true that instead of sending medicine to the residences to cure, such as retrovirals or hydroxychloroquine, what has been sent to them have been morphine and sedatives, that is, medicine to die, Mr. Iglesias? Isn't it true that our elders should have been treated in hospitals, like the rest of the patients, rather than sentenced to death in the residences? And if all this was true, then what did such a reaction come to? Tell me if you really think the things you told me in this rostrum fifteen days ago have served anything. Tell me if you really believe that your insults, threats, or proud advocacy of communism have served anything. Tell me if they have served anything, when fifteen days after his incendiary suffering we are already going for 17 500 older dead in residences, without counting those of Andalusia, La Rioja, Basque Country and Aragon, because, if we do, we would most likely already exceed 20 000. Tell me if they have served anything, when fifteen days later there is still no test for all the staff and for all the residents, symptomatic and asymptomatic, of the residences, which is where they are most lacking, because it is where the most vulnerable population is. Tell me what they have done if fifteen days later thousands of older people remain locked up in their rooms without being able to move, without going for a walk, prisoners of this government's disastrous management. Mr. Churches, you have all the real data about what has been happening in the residences and the ability to decide what to do and how to do it. However, he prefers to distract us with his speech manipulated and based on his head revolutionaries, concealing the truth as the good communist who has declared so proudly to be. Look, Mr. Iglesias, this is the order you issued on March 22 for the UME to report after each intervention in elderly residences: Coordination with the UME to protect senior residences. [[shows a document]] The EMU shall take part in all the residences of older persons who so require at the request of the Social Vice-President. And, look, Mr. Iglesias, this is one of the reports that you have had in your possession from the beginning, just as you have the figures that each week the residences and the autonomous communities give to the Ministry of Health. [[shows another document]] It says: Number of residents killed by COVID-19 for more than twenty-four hours remaining in the center: one; number of residents killed by COVID-19 for less than twenty-four hours remaining in the center: fifteen. Sixteen bodies found, sixteen people with names, maybe children, maybe grandchildren. What do you want us to do in front of this as opposition, Mr. Churches?, shut up?, don't bother?, don't denounce what's going on with our elders? Do you not understand that our duty as a loyal opposition to the Spanish people is to hold you and your Government accountable? Had we been sitting on that bench and you sitting on the stand, you wouldn't have done the same thing as us: demanding responsibilities, exposing the data or asking for accounts? Of course, of course I would have done it, certainly I would have done it, and also mercilessly, without any mercy, too, because, quite unlike us, you do believe that it is necessary to politicize pain and suffering. That's how you've manifested it on more than one occasion - and there's the damn hemerotheque so that we don't forget who you really are - but not because you care about the people who suffer and die - I told you the other day - but because you and your people understand that the politicization of pain is an excellent tool to change the reality that we have for the reality that you want, because you take advantage of the suffering to seek guilty in the ranks of those you want to eliminate, drawing political revenue from your supreme judgments of Marxist-Leninist manual, Mr. Churches. Indeed, it is grotesque to see how what he did before from the opposition continues to do exactly the same now from the Government, how even though he has all the responsibility and power to change things, he prefers to concentrate on demonizing those he wants to destroy rather than putting in place the means to help solve the problems. You don't want to end the pain, because you need it to confront each other and fish in a turbulent river. You have a problem, Mr. Churches: you do not accept the rules of democratic play because you are not a Democrat. That's why the other day he showed himself as an intolerant sectarian, because unfortunately, the tiger is never wiped out. A Democrat, Mr. Iglesias, accepts the result that the ballot boxes cast, even if it is different from what one would like, as we have done all the Spanish citizens for decades. A Democrat does not seek to nullify his political opponent by controlling the Legislative Power, the National Intelligence Centre or the media, or by taking advantage of a crisis situation like the one we are living through to subvert the established order. A Democrat doesn't do what you did here the other day, Mr. Churches. A Democrat does not call the representatives of four million Spaniards parasites or miserable in a place like this, where the sovereignty of the Spanish people resides. Getting up here is an honor and a huge responsibility, immense, and you have defiled this rostrum. A Democrat does not threaten to remove himself from the third most voted political force, referring to times past and convulsed when he knows perfectly well that we are a party that barely has a few years of life. A Democrat is not dedicated to inciting hatred and confrontation between Spaniards, manipulating and lying to public opinion and always resorting to the same clichés to awaken people's lowest instincts: envy, resentment, revenge. Spanish with long surnames, he told me the other day: Ruiz Solás. Some long names, Mr. Iglesias, like those of his companions: Pedro Sánchez-Pérez Castejón or Fernando Grande-Marlaska Gómez. That we have no more homeland than our money, you told me too, Mr. Churches. Shall we get our payrolls out? Shall we get our payrolls out? Because you make a lot more money than I do and a lot more than any of the fifty-two VOX Members. Do we teach our houses, Mr. Iglesias? Because the vast majority of VOX Members - and I don't even tell you about VOX voters - have worse houses than you and, of course, not one of the privileges you enjoy. Who are you trying to fool by standing at this point like the Robin Hood of the poor, Mr. Churches? You made here a very serious threat - very serious, very serious - in the background and in the form. I'm not intimidated or scared, I'm telling you, but tell me if you're going to do it and how you're going to do it. Are you just going to incite hatred with your sophistication so that others will do the dirty work for you? #MataraAbascal, Mr. Iglesias, trending topic for hours courtesy of your followers? Is that what you're looking for? Should we be afraid for ourselves and our children? What are you going to do, Mr. Churches? Is he going to physically liquidate us? Are you going to illegalize us as a party? Are you going to stop us from going to the polls? What's your plan to get us out of the political landscape? I think it is very clear that we are not the ones who represent hatred or moral misery or any of those barbarities that you said here the other day. We represent nothing but love for our homeland, our history, our culture and, of course, our elders. That's what we represent, and I think anyone who hears you and me the other day will be very clear who hates him. Mr Iglesias, Spain deserves a vice president who knows how to govern for everyone and who does not do so with so much grudge, a grudge that sadly not only has not moderated over time, but has gone up, perhaps because it is clear - you have realized - that now that your opportunity has arrived, your time to move from theory to practice, your time to govern, turns out that you do not know how to do so and that it has become a fraud even for those who voted for you. Mr. Iglesias, Spain is not to blame for its incompetence or its frustration and does not have to pay for it with its hatred. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Linares. I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u143	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, honourable Member. You have accused us of distributing morphine to kill elderly people in senior residences, you have asked me what plans I have to physically liquidate them and you have spoken of Marxism Leninism. However, I recognize an enormous virtue in your inquiry: you have raised the foundations of democracy and I believe you provide a magnificent opportunity for us in this House to discuss the foundations of democracy. Look, I'm gonna try to explain to you with all the humility. The foundations of democracy are the material foundations of social rights; public health, for example, on which professionals rely the opportunity of all citizens to have adequate care. You know that if someone has undermined the elements of that democratic foundation they have been their partners or the party of which you are a split, with cuts in public health and precariousing the working conditions of both doctors and nurses and all health professionals. However, you, in your electoral programme, defend that public health must be dismantled, ending universal health, introducing co-sponsors and favoring private health. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because you're an anti-democratic party. One of the foundations of democracy, Your Honor, is public education, the possibility that a child, regardless of where he was born, regardless of his surname, may have the best education. I've seen on the Internet that you studied at the CEU, which I think is very good, but there you can't study anyone. There are many people who are seeing us that they need public education to be able to study. However, you are devoting yourselves to attacking and censoring teachers of public education with proposals as deplorable - and forgive the harshness of the qualification - as the famous Pin Abascal, or pose without modesty in your electoral programme that public education must be dismantled and a transfer of resources to private education must be carried out. I will give you a literal quote from Rubén Manso, the economic guru of his party: 'It is not the function of the State to provide any good or service, except three or four: criminal justice, internal security and external security. Everything else, other services that you want to think - health or education - can be the insurer. ' Do you know why you think this? Because you're an anti-democratic political party. A foundation of democracy, Your Honor, is fiscal justice, the existence of a progressive and redistributive tax system that ensures that not only the working class, the self-employed and the small business pay taxes, that guarantees that goodwill and solidarity in an advanced democracy do not have to do with individual altruism, but also with a tax system that ensures that everyone has to pay what is theirs. Any Democrat, any patriot now recognizes that it is a disadvantage for Spain to be at 5, 6 or 7 points away, in terms of fiscal justice, from the countries in our environment. Any Democrat, any patriot recognizes that a reconstruction rate would be necessary for those who have the most legal opportunity to help their country and country to cope with an economic crisis like this. However, you point out that we must lower taxes on the rich, widening our country's fiscal justice gap with Europe, stripping our country of its income and the fundamental elements for building the foundations of democracy and the welfare state. You know why? Because you, Your Honor, are an anti-democratic party. Another foundation of democracy and of the Spanish Constitution, honourable Member, is public pensions, as stated in article 50 of the Constitution. There was a generation in this country that, judging life and freedom to oppose everything you represent, managed to bring our constitutional text into post-war democratic constitutionalism and include pension protection. However, you openly suggest that the public pension system should be dismantled and replaced by a private pension system. You know why? Because you're an anti-democratic party. Another foundation of democracy and the Constitution is the right to work and adequate remuneration, as stated in article 35. However, how curious, you have voted against the ERTE, which you are serving to protect workers and to protect entrepreneurs; you have voted against banning dismissals because of COVID-19; you have voted against aid to self-employed people and temporary workers; you have voted against banning sick dismissals; you have voted against all social aid. And you know why? Because you will never defend the general interest, because you are an anti-democratic party. A foundation of democracy and the Spanish Constitution, Your Honor, is the right to social security and the economic sufficiency of households, as stated in article 41 of the Constitution. In these days we have seen images in the district of Aluche, with queues of compatriots coming to the food distribution that made a neighborhood association. We must congratulate that neighbourly association, but in an advanced democracy who has the obligation that no one should have to pass the shame of not being able to feed his family and not being able to fill the fridge it is the Government, and you call paguita the minimum income vital, after your president was collecting from the corrupt Esperanza Aguirre, charging from all Spanish citizens to mount chiringuitos against Spanish democracy. You have had the indecency to call many Spanish citizens parasites who have to suffer the shame of not being able to arrive at the end of the month, saying that the minimum living income is a paguita, and that indecency is unique to anti-democratics, Your Honor. A foundation of democracy, Your Honor, is the right to housing, as stated in article 47 of the Spanish Constitution. However, you have voted against the ban on evictions without housing alternatives, you have voted against the mortgage moratoriums, you have voted against the subsidies and the withdrawals of rent payments, because you are not on the side of Spanish families, you are not patriots, you are on the side of vultures and speculators. You are not a Spanish party, you are a party of false architects and caradures, who sign irregular projects to enrich themselves with real estate speculation while you are dedicated to criminalizing poor families who have problems accessing a fundamental right like housing, because you are a party that is against democracy. A foundation of Spanish democracy, Your Honor, is equality between men and women; however, you in this House have voted against the extraordinary measures against macho violence during this emergency and are systematically dedicated to attacking the women's movement and women who have made the fight for equality one of the most beautiful heritages of our democracy, and this you do because you are an anti-democratic party. A foundation of Spanish democracy, Your Honor, is the recognition of public initiative in the economy, as stated in article 131 of the Constitution. It has been demonstrated worldwide in recent weeks that only the State and the public sector can provide a coordinated, planned and robust response to ensure the protection of the productive fabric and the safety of people in emergency situations. However, you qualify any attempt by the State to fulfil its institutional function regulated by the Constitution of Bolivarian Communism. And you know why? Because you are a party that is against democracy and the Spanish Constitution. A foundation of our democracy, Your Honor, is the primacy of the general interest over particular interests, as stated in article 128 of the Constitution. However, you cannot bear that a member of the Government quotes Article 128 of the Constitution, and I understand it perfectly, because the political tradition you represent, the far right separated from the People's Party, is that which opposed the 1978 Constitution, precisely because it contained patriotic articles such as 128. You, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, represent the opposite of the foundations of our democracy and the opposite of all the social consensus that allowed us to negotiate a constitution that is certainly incomplete and better, but which today represents a fundamental instrument to guarantee the lives of millions of citizens. Advanced democracies, Your Honor, have historically been built in opposition to what reactionaryism and fascism represent. All the democratic constitutions of the world have been built thanks to the fact that there were men and women who risked their lives and sometimes gave it to confront the political tradition that you represent. And I have to tell you that your position has all the meaning of the world. It is normal for you, party with some brands and some composite surnames, the party of some who enriched themselves with expoliation to our people who represented the Franco dictatorship in our country, to oppose the Constitution and democracy. It is logical, because democracy, Your Honor, is a historical movement of the most to put limits on the privileges of the least and, indeed, there is no greater threat to democracy than you, because democracy is the greatest threat to you, Your Honor. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u144	Thank you very much, Gloria. Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u145	Thank you very much. It does not cease to be curious that a declared communist comes to us here to talk about democracy; he does not cease to be curious. I see you don't know our program; I don't know if you haven't read it or, simply, that you have so many prejudices that you are unable to see what you have in front of your noses. Mr. Churches, I'm going to remind you of something I think you've forgotten. You've come as far as you're not with the votes of the Spaniards. You lost seven seats in the last election; you won thirty-five deputies and fifty-two VOX. We have the support of many more Spaniards than you and therefore more authority than you to come up to this rostrum. If you are where you are, Mr. Iglesias, it is because you have taken advantage of the power of a president who is capable of anything with such a power to govern, not because the Spaniards have given you their support. Mr. Iglesias, you are neither a revolutionary leader nor a spiritual leader; you are a member of a government team, a minister, a manager who is there to solve the problems of the Spanish, of all the Spanish. You haven't answered any of the questions I've asked you, any of them. You have prepared a speech, you have prepared it this time very well, but you have not responded to any of the things I asked you and you have not addressed any of the issues I raised here, and you are a member of the government team and you are here to defend and protect all the Spaniards and to give us an answer, not to hold a political rally on what democracy is. This, Mr. Iglesias, is not the Complutense, it is not the university, it is the Congress, and we VOX deputies, like the vast majority of Spaniards, are not university students yet untrained, dreamers and romantics who do not yet know what the world is about or what life is about. Don't hang up, Mr. Iglesias. We are men and women made and rights, tired of working to get our families out of the way. By the way, you don't know what it cost my father to pay me the best education he could. We are not, Mr. Iglesias, for jokes or ideological experiments. It is clear, Mr. Iglesias, that you have a gift for the violent arena, for the incendiary stumbling block and for the street threat, but, honestly, the rule comes great to you, it comes very great to you. It would not be too much if he assumed his limitations with a little more humility. To us, I really tell you, all we care about is that you do your job right, that's all; that you do your job right, that's what we settle for. Their insults and threats, don't worry, we will take them with all the resignation we can, as part of the sacrifice we have to make to make Spain, sooner than later, an even bigger country than it already is. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ruiz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Linares. To conclude the debate, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, you said that this is not the Complutense University; you are right, it is not the CEU either. And surely your father had to work hard, but don't forget the generation of Spaniards who had to work hard so that their children, for the first time, would have the opportunity to go to a public school and a public university. What defines democracy, Your Honor, is not that some - I admit with some effort - can afford a private university; what defines democracy is that even those who do not have the economic opportunity, no matter how hard they try, to go to a private university, can have the best public education. And that is something that you, Your Honor, find difficult to understand. [[Rumors]] I don't interrupt you when you intervene, but you yell 'liar' at me from the rostrum and insult me. You can be reactionary by being polite, Your Honor. I haven't interrupted them in any case. You insist again on communism. I say the same again: there sits the secretary general of the Communist Party of Spain; without that party there would be no Constitution, without that party in this country there would be no democratic elections, without that party it would not have been possible to defeat the dictatorship. I understand that you, who have always defended totalitarian regimes, are greatly disturbed by the fact that in Spain the Communist Party is in the DNA of our Constitution and democracy. I'm sorry, Your Honor; I'm sorry, Your Honor, very much. You told me something I accept. You told me I must be humble in government action, and you're right. We will be wrong many times, surely we have been wrong many times, but I believe that we have shown, Your Honor, with all humility, that we can face a social and economic crisis by defending the general interest proclaimed by the Spanish Constitution - exactly the opposite of what was done after the 2008 crisis - and that we can face a situation as dramatic as it is reaching out to the opposition, defending public health, protecting workers, protecting tenants, protecting families who cannot assume that there is a cut in supplies and protecting people who need a minimum living income. And I believe that you once again, with all due respect, have demonstrated the interests of those who represent: the vultures, the billionaires who do not want to pay taxes and the enemies of Spain. Because you are not a Spanish party; you are a party that represents the interests of those who have no more homeland than their money, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u148	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u149	We continue with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, there is the debate on the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 15/2020 of 21 April of additional urgent measures to support the economy and employment. To present the Royal Decree-Law, on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u150	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like once again to refer to this House for its support for the validation of Royal Decree-Law 15/2020 of 21 April of additional urgent measures to support the economy and employment; a Royal Decree-Law that reinforces the measures to protect the productive fabric and employment that we have been implementing, with the aim of preserving our economy in the best possible way in order to have a good starting point in dealing with recovery. These are essential and urgent measures in view of the persistence of the exceptional economic and social circumstances that the COVID-19 pandemic is causing. As you all know, the last seven weeks - and particularly since the state of alarm was decreed - we have presented successive royal decrees-law with measures of three kinds. Firstly, health measures to strengthen our health system. The absolute priority of our Government is to combat the health emergency as effectively as possible and to try to save lives. It is about supporting professionals who are at the forefront of the defence of citizens fighting the disease and promoting research to provide us with a treatment and vaccine against the coronavirus as soon as possible. Secondly, we have taken social measures to support citizens at this time of difficulty, with particular attention to the most vulnerable groups. Thirdly, economic measures to sustain our productive fabric, to make the labour market more flexible in order to avoid the permanent destruction of employment and to protect workers in this context, providing the most vulnerable groups and sectors - for example, the self-employed and SMEs - with tools to enable them to navigate during this period in view of their main difficulties, for example liquidity. To this you respond measures such as those that you all know and have been validating in this parliamentary seat, such as flexibility and public support for temporary employment regulation files, the ERTE, with full guarantee of access to benefits by all the workers concerned, the implementation of the public guarantee line through the Official Credit Institute especially for SMEs and self-employed persons and the creation of a safety net to protect citizens, particularly the most vulnerable and self-employed persons, such as the postponement of social contributions and taxes, the creation of subsidies for domestic workers and temporary workers, the creation of an extraordinary termination benefit for self-employed persons, the moratorium on the payment of mortgages and rents or the prohibition of cuts in basic supplies. These are important measures that have already helped alleviate the situation of more than seven million citizens in our country and that demonstrate our firm commitment to the maximum that guides the Government that we will emerge from this united crisis, that we will not leave anyone behind. Despite how much we have done so far, we continue to constantly assess the situation, paying attention to the needs that are emerging as the confinement and the progressive descalation evolves. We also continue to analyze the proposals, suggestions and requests that come to us from different groups to determine what more we can do with this goal of meeting the needs of our country in the best possible way at these difficult times. This is a government that listens and results from that ongoing evaluation work and our constant contact with social actors and political groups is this real decree-law that unites us here today, which includes about thirty economic and social measures focused primarily on supporting businesses and workers with four clear objectives: to reduce the operating costs of SMEs and self-employed people, to strengthen business financing, to facilitate the adjustment of the economy and to protect employment and finally to support workers. The reduction or directly the lack of income that many entrepreneurs are suffering as a result of the drastic reduction in economic activity may lead to perfectly solvent and profitable businesses not being able to meet their rental payment obligations, thus putting their own survival at risk. For this reason, this royal decree-law regulates a procedure for SMEs and self-employed people to reach agreements with the tenants of commercial premises when it comes to large estate holders or public enterprises. In the event that the lessor is a small owner, the use of the bond as a payment mechanism is facilitated and replenished within one year. This is a measure with a clearly positive impact on the group of self-employed and SMEs from which more than 150 000 commercial properties, 11% of the total, and more than 70 000 leisure and hospitality properties, almost one third of the total, can be benefited. Secondly, the Royal Decree-Law includes additional measures to strengthen corporate financing. This is why the Institute for Diversification and Energy Saving, IDAE, is empowered to grant deferrals in loans granted to third parties under the various grant or repayable aid programmes they have. This is a possibility that can benefit up to 845 loans, with maturity of more than EUR 1 million per month. It is an amount that represents an oxygen balloon for the companies concerned, and we follow the line that has already been started with other types of support bodies for small and medium-sized enterprises within the Ministry of Industry. In addition, to ensure the continuity of economic transactions and to provide security for commercial transactions in the current context of uncertainty, we strengthen the mechanisms of the insurance sector. This is a very important measure, that of enabling the Insurance Compensation Consortium to develop reinsurance, credit and security activities that serve as a guarantee for the recovery of sales or the provision of services and legal and contractual compliance. Following the ICO's line of endorsements, the aim is to guarantee the liquidity of the productive tissue. We must ensure that liquidity flows, which are the food for the functioning of society and the economy, continue to be maintained, even in a situation of relative hibernation, such as that we have had in the past few weeks. Also with this royal decree-law is reinforced the re-validation of the Spanish Company of Reaffirmation, Cersa, previewed already in the Royal Decree-law 8/2020, that I had occasion to defend here last 25 March, increasing the capacity of the societies of mutual guarantee of all the autonomous communities. The aim is to ensure that this liquidity reaches the entire productive fabric and the entire national territory. In addition, we guarantee that the ICO endorsement line launched a few weeks ago, worth EUR 100 billion, can be released by the end of the year, extending the time frame for the possible application of these endorsements. As you all know, we have deployed three phases of this collateral line, with a total of €64.5 billion, of which 4000 are intended to back up the payers of the alternative fixed income market so that it is not only the banking system that channels liquidity and can take advantage of this collateral line. This is possible precisely by a modification that we have introduced in this royal decree-law, which includes under the umbrella of the ICO's endorsements these instruments, in order to encourage the maintenance of the different sources of liquidity with which the market operates. By Sunday, the ICO had already registered more than 318,000 operations, 98% of them for SMEs and self-employed people, with a total amount of almost €31.4 billion, which enabled 41.266 million of funding to be mobilised. I like to point out these figures every time I come because although it is true that messages are frequent about some credit that has not been able to be completed, some operation that has not been able to arrive at the right time or that is being delayed, I think it is important that we highlight what this line of endorsements means - among the most effective and considered to be most successful in the whole of the European Union - as it is channeling a very large volume of resources to society as a whole and that we are constantly improving to try to reach all those we need to keep active in order to have a good basis for economic recovery. Thirdly, this royal decree-law includes a series of tax measures - measures of great magnitude - which are in addition to those already provided for in the royal decree-law which this House validated on 29 April, with broad support. Until 31 July, health supplies will be subject to a zero-per-cent tax rate on VAT, applicable to domestic deliveries, imports and intra-Community purchases, where the recipient of such supplies is a public body, a non-profit body and a hospital. In this way, a little over EUR 1 billion will be saved and we put national production at the same level as imports of sanitary material. On the other hand, corporate income is aligned with the revenue forecast for 2020, in order to more accurately reflect the economic reality of taxpayers and release more than EUR 11 billion of liquidity for businesses, especially self-employed and SMEs. An extraordinary option is included in the corporate tax split payment modality and proportionally adapts to the alarm period the calculation of the split payments in the method of objective estimation of the IRPF and the income from the simplified VAT scheme. It is also possible to determine the level of performance of SMEs and self-employed persons according to the direct estimation method. In line with the above-mentioned objective of not harming the liquidity of companies, we have the possibility of making the payment of tax debts conditional on obtaining State-backed financing. We also extend the temporary validity of certain tax measures contained in previous royal decree-laws to ensure that they can be adapted to the evolution of the crisis and that they are fully effective in their purpose. Finally, with regard to VAT, we reduce the tax rate on books, newspapers and digital magazines to 4 %, a very important issue particularly in the situation of confinement in the last few weeks. With regard to measures to facilitate economic adjustment and to protect employment, the provisions concerning temporary employment regulations by force majeure are clarified in order to allow their application to be partial, i.e. that undertakings engaged in essential activities may benefit from the protection of ERTs for the part of the activity or staff not affected by that essential nature. This is a measure that has been widely claimed by certain sectors of our productive fabric, which, by the way, your ladies and gentlemen mentioned in virtually all the appearances that I have had in this room. This is therefore a reasonable measure which is an important relief for many companies, which will thus be in a better position to resist in these exceptional circumstances. The Royal Decree-Law also strengthens the protection of permanent discontinuous workers by extending social security coverage to some 15 000 who have not been able to reintegrate into their activities on the scheduled dates and who can now join the ERTE or receive a benefit, even though unemployment has not exhausted. This is the case with many jobs associated with seasonal activities that start at this time and work only a few months a year. It is also a claim and a claim that we have been hearing from certain groups. With regard to the approximately 50 000 self-employed persons who did not opt for a mutual partner with Social Security within the time limit and who now have to apply for the termination benefit, they are allowed to do both procedures jointly in order to facilitate the recognition of this right and its processing, as well as the application for the temporary incapacity benefit. Furthermore, in order to ensure legal certainty in line with the previous measures for the general suspension of public administrations' time limits, we also suspend the time limits in the field of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, with the exception of those cases or interventions that are indispensable to ensure the protection of the general interest, or are related to COVID-19. This Royal Decree-Law strengthens the mechanisms for the control and sanction of fraudulent behaviour in the collection of public benefits by regulating penalties to companies that submit applications with false or incorrectness, including the obligation of the company to return the benefits unduly received by its workers when it does not mislead or blame them. The Fund for the Promotion and Education of Cooperatives is made extraordinarily flexible so that it can allocate these resources to any activity that contributes to curbing or alleviating the effects of COVID-19 through its own actions, donations to other public or private entities, provision of liquidity to the cooperative to ensure the continuity of its operation. In addition, in order to ensure the protection of workers and to continue to meet the need for reconciliation, we extend the preferential nature of telework for two more months, as well as the right to adjust working hours and to reduce working hours for the care of family members. Finally, in view of the difficulties faced by scientific and technological parks in meeting their obligations to repay loans granted by the General Administration of the State, the conditions of these loans are made more flexible and it is also possible to extend the predoctoral contracts for research and training personnel entered into in the field of research and to authorize the indebtedness of the Barcelona Supercomputing CenterConsorcio Nacional de Supercomputación, to enable the fulfilment of the international commitments related to the EuroHPC project. A final chapter of this royal decree-law is the protection of citizens. It is a matter of dealing with certain cases that so far were not covered by the royal decree-laws that we have been adopting and validating in this House. It is, for example, a question of protecting those who were unable to access unemployment benefits, despite having suffered a contract suspension, a reduction in working hours or a lay-off for voluntarily leaving their previous job to change jobs and still being on probation just in this period of the COVID, or those who have not come to receive a firm job offer due to the outbreak of the health crisis. On the other hand, the measure concerning the extension of the contingencies in which pension schemes can be rescued, which we had already adopted in Royal Decree-Law 11/2020, is being developed, inter alia, by defining the accreditation of the circumstances that give rise to the availability of such funds, the time limit and the maximum amount that may be available. The notarial tariffs for non-mortgage credit novations, as already provided for in the moratoriums, are reduced to 50 %. In order to implement the measures relating to the moratorium on leases for vulnerable families, the line of endorsements approved by Royal Decree-Law 11/2020 is enabled to have a budget of up to EUR 12 billion to guarantee loans granted by financial institutions. Measures are included to ensure legal certainty in the event of a unilateral grant by the creditor of the notarial instruments in which the extension of the time limit is formalized. It is also clarified that expenditure relating to notarial and registration fees arising from formalisation and registration in the case of mortgage moratoriums will be assumed by the financial institution and include other measures for the benefit of specific groups such as agricultural self-employed persons, for whom there will be a reduction in contributions during the inactivity situation; in the sports sector, the transfer of private resources generated by professional football to public policies that will ensure the sustainability of sports federations and of the preparation programmes for the Tokyo Olympic Games is facilitated, and the return of so-called university rent loans to those holders who were unable to repay them in time and form, for whom the possibility of renewing these instruments within a new period under the same conditions is opened. President, I conclude now. This royal decree-law is a new step to support the needs arising from the prolongation of this exceptional situation. I am not tired of saying this, these are not measures of the Government, they are not measures of the Congress, they are measures financed and they represent an important effort on the part of the whole of Spanish society, that what is doing through these socio-economic packages is to protect and support the productive fabric, the employment, the most vulnerable groups in our country. As the President of the Government said this morning, we are trying to save lives and also to save jobs and businesses. We are thus succeeding in minimizing the impact of this crisis among all of us. By acting together, responsibly, with solidarity and transparency, we will be able to prevent the pandemic from leaving permanent scars in our society and in our economy, and we will facilitate the recovery to come as soon as possible, faster and stronger, when it starts to reverse the health crisis. Soon - I am sure and I wish - we will be talking about recovery plans and revitalization of our economic fabric, but until that time comes it is imperative that we continue to take the necessary steps to contain the many emergencies that this pandemic is generating. That is why I ask you to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u151	Thank you very much, Madam Third Vice-President of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón Ramos is speaking for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u152	Thank you very much, Madam President. I cannot dwell on the specific issues of a rule as varied as the minister has developed, but I do want to say that it is a necessary complement to other decrees that had left some striking gaps and also a complement that must be added to other measures that have already been taken by the autonomous communities themselves. In particular, in Cantabria, a first shock plan has already been approved with its own resources which directly affects SMEs and self-employed people, in addition to measures which also affect 40,000 workers affected by an ERTE. Initially more than five thousand checks of resistance have been granted to five thousand autonomous, another thirty thousand will now be favored and there are other measures of economic activity. [[The lady]] I believe that more emphasis is already being placed on measures to encourage economic activity than on income guarantee benefits themselves. This effort by the Autonomous Communities needs extraordinary funding. That is why, considering that economic activity must be taken as a whole and not only in certain sectors, we reiterate what we have always said since Cantabria, that in the distribution of funds between the autonomous communities the actual cost of public services must prevail over any other criterion to guarantee the equality of all citizens and, of course, to pay the outstanding debts both in the case of Cantabria with the debt of Valdecilla and the derivative of VAT as well as in the rest of the autonomous communities. The implementation of these measures will help to ensure that in future measures, when the state of alarm ends, the priority is to recover economic activity and employment because, without this, the rest of the social measures will not be possible.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. I have the floor for the same group, Mr Sayas López.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u154	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, indeed, many of the decrees that the Government is bringing to this House are full of good measures on the role, which are then not moving sufficiently into the real economy, and this is one of those decrees. One of the measures mentioned, for example, is the reduction of operating costs for small businesses and small businesses, which has two requirements. The first is to have lost 75% of income; it is too much for many businesses. If processing is allowed as a bill, we will try to correct this with an amendment to 50% rather than 75%. The second requirement speaks of the fact that in order to be able to access these issues the tenant has to be a large foreman or a public administration; a question that in many cases is not met, with which many small businesses find themselves unable to benefit from such measures. But this has also happened with the ICO lines. The ICO lines are raging in their processing, require a lot of documentation and are slow due, of course, to the collapse that is at the time of requesting them. All the measures being promoted by the Government need to respond to two things: firstly, to agility because there is a great deal of need at this time that cannot wait, and secondly, to simplicity in the requirements in the processing. It has also referred to some measures such as the mortgage moratorium, which has such lion's-like conditions that many people are left out of that possibility. It has also referred to support for female domestic workers, because they are mainly women, but such support began to be applied for last week and there are many people who have low incomes who cannot be so many months unpaid. The same goes for ERTE, there are a lot of people who can't stay that long without receiving a single euro. I'm done with two questions. The first, we are in a situation that is so dramatic that it is not worth putting on patches. The measures that the Government is bringing in are like a tirite, but they cannot correct the hemorrhage that endures an economy like the one we currently have. And the second, it is necessary to open the economy because, if not, these punctual measures will not be worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister and Vice-President, I have to use these two minutes to talk about an urgent and serious issue that affects the Balearic and Canary Islands. As you know, the Government issued a ministerial order requiring airlines to have an empty seat in inter-island transport in the Balearic Islands and the Canary Islands on half-hour flights and to cover only 50% of the total capacity of the aircraft. According to the government, for those of us in phase 1, in the cafeterias the next table has to be two meters; when you go in a guagua you can't go all the covered seats; when you go in a taxi either; when you get to the airport they make you separate two meters to get in safety and get on the plane, and it turns out that when you get in the plane you have in the cogote, here on the left, one; here on the right, another; here on the front, another and here on the back, another. They have nothing to do with airplane filters because with regard to air filters that are recycled it would be the same as ten people on the plane or twenty; it is a health issue. Here, in Congress, the deputies are separated. The Government immediately has to draw an order and, as long as there are social distancing instructions, there will have to be at least one seat of difference between the people who go on an airplane, 50%. Because the inter-island flights last half an hour and the companies of the two archipelagos are forced not to cover the whole passage, however, on the routes peninsula-Baleares or peninsula-Canarias the planes are beaten. If the companies say it is not profitable for them, then the Spanish Government - it is my proposal at this time in positive - will have to declare the public service obligation of certain frequencies in order not to leave the archipelagos incommunicado for the duration of the period of social distancing. That they don't want to do it voluntarily? Public service obligation. That's what I put to you, the canaries and the people of Balearics have the right to have the guarantee that a person who is on the left or on the right... On those flights, do you know what happens, besides, because I catch them every week? That comes people who have had a heart transplant here in Madrid, people who come with cancer problems from different hospitals on the peninsula and people who have passed the coronavirus, who have been here in quarantine and who come with low defenses. There's no right. It has not been a flight, there have not been two, there have been many in the Balearic Islands and the Canary Islands; I can tell you four of which I have recorded in the last few days. I ask you to resolve it immediately. The European issue is for international flights, but this is the connection with the peninsula. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u157	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the royal decree-law deals with a lot of things; we have very little time, so I'm going to be very direct. Most of the economic measures that the Government is taking have a problem, they involve indebtedness or either of society - especially of the popular classes, of small businesses, of self-government, etc. - or of the State. That means throwing the ball forward, and more considering that this crisis is not a single bump, but that it will be necessary to invest more in social investments, basic income, primary care, etc. It is to throw this ball forward perhaps waiting for the money from the European Union that will probably not arrive and that, if it does, it could be even worse because it would be subject to adjustment conditions, that is, cuts, etc. Meanwhile, in this necessary investment those who are not putting on their side are the big companies, the IBEX companies, starting with the bank that was rescued at the time. We are told that they will not be able to distribute dividends, but this is not enough. It is not about not sharing dividends in times of crisis, it is about having no profits, that these profits serve for social investment. I am referring, for example, to the companies that stated last Sunday in this diary: 'We have a future'. [[shows a headline in La Vanguardia newspaper]] I do not know who they were referring to with 'We have a future'; if they were referring to their interests as companies, to those of whom we have debts with them - with the banks - to those of whom we pay their bills, because with the measures that these companies are taking not only they do not put on their side but they are ensuring that they do not lose even one euro: they can benefit from the employment measures, if they lend money the endorsement they put it on the state; they can benefit from the European Union's refinancing plans, and the energy bills that they stop paying the people who cannot pay them will be compensated. I mean, it's the usual thing: privatizing profits and socializing losses, but this time it's a government that claims to be the most progressive in history.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u159	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u160	Thank you very much, President. Madam Vice-President, I will start by pointing out the meaning of our vote: we are going to abstain and I will explain why. I will be more prolific later in the explanations, but I do want you to understand - if the expression serves - in a much simpler way who is listening to us. It gives us the feeling that you, even with good intentions, are playing the mus, but are playing small continuously. The problem is not usually great when those who play the mus and small do it at the beginning of the game; when the game is rushing its most decisive phases, playing small is usually always losing. We therefore believe that its measures, although well-intentioned, are short and, above all and fundamentally, very short for the speed and vertigo required by events because we believe that what is not done now, is not going to be possible afterwards. In short, we believe that - and I have said this to the President before - we must opt for policies decided on in the redistributive field in order to compensate for the lack of income because, otherwise, there will be more social divide and more social inequality. We are also certain - and I told you in the Commission - that capitalism is going through one of its cyclical crises, which is undoubtedly more serious than previous or recent crises. In any case, this crisis, like all of them, is characterized by three factors: stagnation, debt and inequality; stagnation because they have lower profit rates and because they have lower productivity; indebtedness because it obviously grows; and inequality because it increases the social gap. Given this reality, what is the possible scenario? Well, living in a continuous crisis. That is why we ask for more decisive and clearer changes. But it is not only the reality of living in a continuing crisis in which some have not stopped living since 2008 - because it is curious and paradoxical that we now assume that everyone came out of the crisis of 2008 and went well; it was not so, that normality neither we like - but that this continuity of the crisis will probably be compounded by the defaults and bankruptcies of the big companies. That is why we propose that we should nationalize. I know it will sound loud or harsh in this House that I talk about nationalising or that other speakers do, but, look, it's not even a tremendously revolutionary thing. Charles de Gaulle did so in France after the Second World War to deal with the reconstruction of his own economy; he did so even - for those who are frightened by the high taxes that arise - generating a tax of 95% for the fortunes that had been raised during the time of the dictatorship of Pétain. Therefore, what we ask you to do is to make clear decisions and, in any case, to abandon the old mantra of socializing losses and privatizing profits, because of that in the Spanish State a few teachers have proved themselves. Here every time something has gone wrong they have asked for help, they have asked the father state for tips, but when the father state has invested money and healed them, there has been someone from the state - probably suggested by some who do not run for election, but who seem to command more than those here and here we are - who has decided that it had to be privatized, that when the profits came it was up to privatize so that the usual ones would benefit. Going to the specifics, on the measures you have proposed, I will tell you that we are still worried about the ERTE, that people are still unpaid; there are many people who are still unpaid after two months since they entered the ERTE. We are concerned, as has already been pointed out, that self-employed people are required to lose 75% of their turnover in order to receive the aid they propose. I told you in a previous speech and I tell you now, you don't have to lose 75% to lose everything. You raise the moratorium on mortgages and rents for people and families with reduced incomes, and we believe it is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow because it means delaying the debt and accumulating it. They'll need more and more, because no one will think that these battered families are going to be able to be better now than in a few months. We therefore ask you from the first day before the moratorium to apply the temporary suspension of mortgages and rents for families with reduced incomes and vulnerable people. We could remind you of the 60.6 billion we have forgiven the banks, which seems that no one has too much interest in recovering. We also ask for basic service bills such as light, water or gas: suspension, not moratorium. Last week Repsol announced a gain of EUR 447 million in the pandemic and its CEO, Mr Josu Jon Imaz - whom we know well at Euskal Herria because he is from there - said that his priority was to distribute dividends, earn millions and distribute them among a few in the pandemic. An example of constructive ethics. Iberdrola, another company that we also know well because it is Basque, expects in 2020 - even despite the crisis of the coronavirus - to obtain a record profit of more than 3400 million euros, 3400 million euros, minister. So, you can suspend bill payments to energy and gas companies; we encourage them to do so. And when we talk about taxation, we always talk about fair and equitable taxation. You are still making it easier for companies to split their payments by a tax, that of companies, which only taxes 1.5%. I mean, big companies pay very little taxes and the rich too. We believe that we already need a tax on big fortunes. We have been claiming this since the first plenary session of the state of alarm. We are pleased that more political forces are also putting forward clear measures around this type of tax measure. We would like to recall that there was already such an initiative in Gipuzkoa - when Bildu was ruling in Gipuzkoa - and that it imposed a tax on wealth and big fortunes affecting 1% of the population. It was well valued even by European bodies. It was well valued by the Socialist Party for a while, during the time that lasted its enmity with the Basque Nationalist Party, then it was no longer so well valued to be just. Yes, I would say, in any case, that it powerfully draws my attention to the raising of such dust because it is the wish of those who have the most to contribute. It powerfully draws my attention because these people have money to live a thousand lives and, unless they're all Buddhists and they're thinking about continuous reincarnation, you don't understand why they want so much money. And a point with the COVID rate is well an extraordinary and temporary tax on companies and their contribution to deal with the crisis, but it would be better if they paid what they had to pay forever, not only during this time. Finally, I would like to say that we do not want to go back to the previous normality; a normality marked by evictions, precarious jobs, inadequate pensions, precarious and condemned women to return to the home, an absolute disregard for the care economy, a reality of energy poverty and corporate pressure. Some have changed the brick business to the older people's business, and today it is being seen in the residences. I could keep this up, but I'm done. I know the pressures will be great, but this is the time to make clear and decisive decisions. Some will continue to do Guaidó on the streets of Madrid, but, in any case, as a Navarro poet and singer, Kutxi Romero, what we have to offer people is as simple as their lives being a journey to a future that is not uncertain, their freedom, only their freedom.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u161	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u162	Thank you, President. Egun on. Vice President, as I told you at last week's appearance, you do not have it easy and we certainly appreciate the effort you and your team are making, but we continue to tell you, week after week, that you continue to offer us membership contracts. It is true that they call us before the Councils of Ministers to inform us of the measures, but they give us little room to agree or contribute, and this group, it is true, has adhered well with its affirmative vote or in some case with the abstention of the decrees so far presented for responsibility. What we have been asking of you is more dialogue, agreement and pacts. Despite this, I also have to say that in this decree it seems that they have heard some of the measures and improvements of the groups, which we have been proposing throughout this pandemic and that today we do see them reflected in the decree and also in the decrees that were adopted in the Council of Ministers yesterday. Having said that, today we are again debating a new decree, number 15, the tenth norm of economic and social measures that the Government has adopted to try to counter the impact of COVID; a decree that forms part of a series of norms adopted as a matter of urgency that follow the purpose of dealing with this pandemic, although they form a normative set that, because of its extension and urgency in its adoption and because it addresses many issues, is sometimes confusing, among other issues because of the continuous modifications and adaptations to which it is subjected by the successive provisions that have been adopted, although I must also acknowledge that the Secretariat of State for Economic Affairs makes summaries that come very well to us. In its long, fifteen-page explanatory statement, we believe that it adequately justifies, as far as most measures are concerned, the extraordinary and urgent need. You know, as I have already told you, that in this situation we have supported, with loyalty and with will of agreement, but also with demand, the decrees presented. Today we will also do so, we will support this decree whose objectives we certainly share, because they are to continue to protect and support the productive and social fabric, minimize the impact and facilitate economic activity so that it can be recovered as soon as the situation begins to move forward, and complement provisions adopted by other previous decrees; measures as you have said for SMEs and self-employed, to strengthen business financing; fiscal measures to facilitate economic adjustment and to protect employment and for the protection of citizens. I am not going to disaggregate all the measures, but I do want to highlight from the decree several that they now decide to incorporate, and which this group has already requested in the first alarm decree through motions for resolutions that were initially rejected. Today we are glad that you have reconsidered them because that means that you have heard and taken note of them. For example, I am referring to the measure concerning the strengthening of Cersa's bailout to increase the collateral capacity of mutual guarantee companies in the autonomous communities, which also makes it possible to cover payments, and to the measure concerning the payment of leases for business premises, perhaps the most important fixed cost for entrepreneurs. It must not be forgotten that the cessation of activity has led many companies to rethink how they are going to face this payment. It is a positive step because we believe that dialogue and agreement between tenants and tenants is called for, but we also believe that it needs to be improved because, while the Government's intention to regulate this situation is clear, it may not be effective for several reasons: because it only applies to tenants who have seen their billing suspended or significantly reduced by 75%, a percentage that we have already said was excessively high because with 25% of the activity we cannot live - that is why we have introduced an amendment in the Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 to reduce this percentage - because most tenants are not large tenants or public housing entities, which are the only ones who are obliged to apply the moratorium on rent payment in favour of the tenant. The rest of the tenants, the ordinary, those who are not big forbearers, are not obliged to accept the temporary rent moratorium; and because the moratorium applies to the remaining period of the state of alarm and the successive extensions, therefore, are not included in the rents of March or April. And as long as extensions are adopted, the moratorium will be more effective for ordinary tenants; if the extension ends in June, it will only be for two months. Therefore, we understand that this measure is more effective in cases where the lessor is a big fork. I also believe that it should be stressed that reaching a pact to facilitate the payment of rent should be of interest not only to the tenant but also to the lessor because, given the economic situation of collapse we are seeing, the lessor could find itself in an empty space and with serious difficulties to rent it again. With regard to the fiscal measures of the decree, it introduces a number of specific amendments to the tax legislation on certain procedural aspects of the management of certain taxes. And under no circumstances - I have to say - has the safeguard been established that affects the communities subject to the financial regime of economic agreement or concert, when they are measures relating to concerted taxes of autonomous regulations, companies and IRPF. We welcome the measure allowing self-employed people to temporarily renounce the module system, even though, as I said, it is temporary and penalizing them, because despite not having an activity this tax system obliges them to pay a fixed amount of VAT and IRPF regardless of whether they have income or not; a regime that in the historical territories of Guipúzcoa, Álava and Vizcaya disappeared and tax for what they bill. A zero rate of VAT on intra-Community imports and purchases of health products is set up until 31 July, which is certainly a good thing, also because the suppliers of these products can deduct VAT, but at best it would have to be modulated a posteriori because, after the pandemic, some of these products have a 21 % VAT rate and the 4 % VAT super-reduced VAT should be reviewed. We understand, as a matter of justice, the application of the reduced rate of 4% for books, magazines and newspapers in electronic format because, regardless of the pandemic, discrimination between existing formats did not make sense to us. As for the cooperative education and promotion fund, I would like to specify that it is intended for actions in favour of the community, it is not intended for activities to refinance the cooperative, and we could consider, as long as the pandemic lasts, the destiny of this fund's resources to the fight against it; but, apparently, it is distorted if it is transformed into a financial resource for the sustainability of the cooperative. On the other hand, we also believe that the development of certain aspects relating to the liquidity of pension schemes has been remedied as a result of COVID-19. As regards the provisions concerning the harbour authorities, we value them, but we believe that there is room for improvement because, for practical purposes, for example, in order to be able to apply the measure with regard to the traffic of minima, we have to wait until the end of the 2020 financial year and, on the other hand, with regard to the occupancy rate, it is true that the port authorities regain the power to adopt for approval of the reductions but, in turn, they must be incorporated into a law on the general budgets of the State or a rule with the rank of law, and this can best lead us to a legal limbo. Finally - I am finishing - there is a measure relating to the choice of mutuals which also has an impact on the Royal Decree-Law 8/2020. We are going to make some amendments to this decree in relation to the issue of mutual societies because they can see their reserves reduced and, more specifically, the reserve for the stabilization of professional contingencies. We understand that a calm and serious reflection should be made about mutuals, but what cannot be done is to play with their viability with the adoption of short-term measures. On the other hand, although we agree with many measures of the decree, this is an omnibus decree in which a multitude of subjects of very diverse content are concentrated and some are not related to the extreme circumstances that could validate the use of the figure of the royal decree-law, and I am referring to the creation of the Spanish Global Sport Foundation or, for example, to the authorization of indebtedness to the consortium of Barcelona or to the adoption of urgent measures to repair the damage caused by seismic movements in Lorca, although we agree with them and we see them necessary. Therefore, my group will vote in favour of the Royal Decree-Law, because it includes new and rectification measures or petitions that our group has of course been asking for, but we will also vote in favour of its processing as a bill to improve some of the measures that, as I have outlined, we believe can be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u163	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much for your work. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u164	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. One more day I rise to this rostrum and dedicate the first seconds of my speech to the memory of the 27 000 official victims of this pandemic, 27 104 to this day. Behind each figure there is a person, a life, a drama and I command all my solidarity and support to their loved ones. Now that we begin to experience the relaxation of confinement, we must all remember that this is not yet over and that there are still hundreds of people who die every day, new infected people, health professionals; we send our courage and strength to all of them. Also members of the State Security Forces and Bodies working on the front line to curb the pandemic. In addition, today I have a special mention for our Civil Guard celebrating its anniversary, 176 years watching over the Spaniards. From here goes for all of them our gratitude and infinite gratitude for their work. Now, let's talk about economics. During these days the ghost of the 2008 crisis floats among us. In fact, there is a generation of Spaniards who have only lived in periods of crisis. They probably don't remember that at that time Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero's government denied the biggest, until reality engulfed us by making us pay the lack of forecast with tax increases and social cuts. Ladies and gentlemen, time is putting us to the test today and we have a golden opportunity to do things right. Before resorting to the easy way to tax citizens or to cut social rights, reforms are needed. It is time to thoroughly review our administration, superfluous spending, political spending. It is no time, of course, to take advantage of the state of alarm to appoint twenty-four more directors-general, with disorbited salaries, when we already have the most expensive government of democracy, with more ministries, more vice-presidents and higher offices than ever before. Gentlemen of the Government, the example starts with yourself and, before we raise taxes, we should talk about spending. This crisis has to force us to have a more agile, modern and efficient administration that makes the best use of State resources because these public resources, unlike any partner of its Government, do have ownership. Those resources belong to the citizens. Only if we carry out this exercise of rationalization of expenditure and political self-criticism will we have sufficient credibility to think about how we pay for this crisis. The Spaniards are already fulfilling their part of the deal and it is up to us to comply with ours. As for the actual decree-law that we are dealing with today - it has already been mentioned in this rostrum - it is a very voluminous decree, a omnibus decree that covers many areas, many themes, and which includes many measures of which I am going to outline a few. Furthermore, as is customary for this Government, it is a decree that comes late, it is a patch and it is incomplete and, although it includes measures that some parliamentary groups - in particular mine - we have proposed from the outset, we believe that new ones will be necessary. That is why I anticipate that we will vote yes to the validation of this royal decree, but we will ask for its urgent processing as a bill in order to be able to correct these deficiencies. First, we have measures related to the moratorium on rent of properties other than usual housing. It is a new example of improvisation, intrusion and demonization; of improvisation because they have been unable to think globally and are putting patches on every new royal decree they publish; of intrusion because the Government is re-introducing private contracts between tenants and tenants by increasing legal insecurity. Again, their dogmatism pushes them to adopt a measure that is completely inadequate, which only helps them to draw up their account; of demonization because you speak of the great property holders when they are minority. You know they only control 4% of our country's real estate. That is precisely where you deceive by announcing a measure, a supposed right to moratorium, which, however, depends on the will of the parties and, if they do not reach an agreement, the process of eviction will also begin. Secondly, this royal decree includes corporate financing measures. All of them are welcome, of course. However, the largest liquidity instrument put in place by the Government does not seem to be as successful as you have moved us, Madam Vice-President. The information on ICO credits you have given does not show the reality. According to the bank's statements, credit claims far exceed the figures granted and even the collateral figures provided. Where's the bottleneck? What are the characteristics of the companies that have been denied credit? How many applications have been refused? Thirdly, the royal decree contains fiscal measures that go in the right direction - all of them have been sued by parties like Citizens for a long time - but today they are still insufficient. Why has the government not been more ambitious? They could have taken advantage of this royal decree to extend the effects of the deferral of the tax filing set out in Royal Decree-Law No. 14, not only by prolonging its effects over time, but by expanding taxpayers entitled to it. They could have introduced rates applicable to the split payment. They should have used it to extend the deadline for the submission of the IRPF. By the way, have you considered extending the deadline for filing corporate tax? And now that we are talking about fiscal measures, Madam Vice-President, which are going to generate very high public spending, I wanted to ask you about your new stability plan sent to Brussels a few days ago and about the worst-case review of it by the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority. What is the Government's view of the forecasts given by some economic operators, in particular by the AIReF? Does the government believe that we should be rescued by Europe? Do you think the government in its executive has the best allies to be attractive in Europe? These are questions for which we still have no clear answers. And fourthly and lastly, this royal decree contains labour and social measures which we also consider very positive, albeit insufficient, but what we really regret is that they again disregard the opportunity, the opportunity, to incorporate measures aimed at supporting self-employed workers. It is true that almost one million self-employed persons have been able to access the extraordinary cessation benefit or other support measures. It is true that the 600 euros that most of them receive are the only help they have had in this crisis, but there are many more who are barely sorting this crisis by having their business closed, with suppliers who cancel their orders or with customers who have stopped going and who are not clear whether they will be able to recover. It is late to save those self-employed who have closed because the crisis has been able to deal with them, but it is still in time to offer a true lifesaver for all those who are still standing. That is why I reiterate the requests we have made on numerous occasions. Self-employed persons need recognition facilities in the extraordinary termination benefit. Do not leave out those who are affiliated to an alternative mutuality to Social Security. Do not forget the autonomous who are fixed discontinuous and who carry out seasonal activities. Do not let go of self-employed persons who have to take care of their dependent children or parents for as long as school closures last. As I said, our vote will be in favour of validation, but we will call for urgent processing as a bill in order to be able to improve and fill these shortcomings that I have mentioned. I'm done, President. The Vice-President has made reference to almost everything, but I must point out that there is a striking aspect to this royal decree, as some others have presented, which we cannot understand. Among many of the changes they make through final provisions, they attribute the management of the passive class regime of public officials to the National Social Security Institute. I will not now enter into the debate on the origin of this change because it does not correspond, but it is precisely because it does not correspond so I do not understand how a reform of this line can be made in this context and by means of partial amendments inserted with footwear in an article of a rule which supposedly aims to deal with the COVID. It is true that after the modification of the CNI Law - which was in another decree of the COVID - to shield Mr. Pablo Iglesias' chair, few things can surprise us, although we will not stop denouncing them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u165	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u166	Thank you, Madam President. In our view, in the view of the BNG, the Government is continuing in a line that we find it wrong to seek the resources to deal with this exceptional situation in which it already has very little, rather than making the person who has the most, for example, a tax on the great fortunes; also in this decree. Let us see, the Fund for the Promotion and Education of Cooperatives is allowed to be used for other purposes and, at the same time, forecasts are made of the adjustment of the occupancy rates and the ship in port, benefiting mainly the large shipping companies. The possibility of rescuing pension schemes is broadened, but this measure directly affects the future protection of workers from retirement. SMEs and self-employed may request a moratorium on the lease of their business premises, but not - as the BNG defends - suspension and forgiveness, at least when the lessor is a large real estate fork. The realization of the concept of force majeure in ERTE means, in our view, legitimizing the abusive use of this formula by the employer, while the majority of workers are uncollected and while, within the forecasts directed to the Labour Inspectorate, they are neither restored nor extended the competences for effective control in the face of the lack of labour security measures. The teleworking conditions are not adequately addressed or unemployment forecasts are insufficient for those workers who complete their contract during the probationary period. Finally, I wanted to express an issue that surprises us and another that worries us. Was the creation of the Spain Global Sport Foundation a priority in this context to put it in this decree? Of course, it seems surprising to us. And we are concerned about the transfer of passive classes to the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. We warn that, if so, they will have us in front of them, and we hope that this will not be the first step in cutting rights for public employees who are currently part of this collective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u167	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Economic Vice-President, today we are presented with an omnibus decree with various measures, extensions and corrections, some of which we believe are frankly necessary. It is necessary to extend ERTE, it is necessary, for example, to reduce VAT on health products or books; they have been forgotten in those of primary need for women's hygiene, which we ask them to include in the following ones. But I have to tell you that in general it seems to us to be a set of patches that are insufficient. We are very concerned about the situation of ERTEs. We have known about the negotiation with the employer, which allows flexibility in the dismissal of those who are welcomed to an ERTE. We're afraid this is a back door to facilitate firing. And we are concerned that there are still hundreds of thousands of compatriots who are not charging the ERTE. Yesterday on social media I was told that from Taco Bell, Primark or H and M there are hundreds of thousands of workers who have not charged ERTE since March. We are very concerned and it seems to us that it is a failure of social policy that in Madrid alone there are 100 000 people who are coming to the dining rooms. The queues in the dining rooms, the queues in the doors of the social dining rooms are a failure, and a progressive government is not a much insulted government with the right, it is an effective government in the struggle for social justice. In that sense, the queues in the dining rooms are a failure. One might say that these are differences between rhythms or details; well, things are done well but not enough. In my opinion, it's a project difference. Cover holes or redefine the model? And I agree that what is not being done now is not going to be done later and that a determined action by the State is essential simply and simply because not all Spaniards have a friend, like Mrs. Díaz Ayuso, who gives us a luxury apartment that we don't have to pay for. You have asked what more things can be done. Public health applause can be armored in the Constitution by reforming article 158 so that there can be no further cuts. We have to balance the fiscal balance to ensure that today's transformations are not cut, but that they are paid by those who have the most, and we have to bet decisively not to continue to depend exclusively on brick and tourism and to diversify our economy by betting on the green economy. We ask you, in short, not to continue to live from week to week and to think in the coming decades. This crisis for us is a partwaters and forces us to redefine. Let us make this redefinition by fulfilling the best promise of the French Revolution: 'The first social law is that which guarantees all members of society the means to exist'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u169	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same group, you have the word Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u170	Thank you, ma'am, President. Madam Minister, go ahead and have our vote in favour. Some of the measures, an important part of the measures incorporated in this royal decree-law, had been requested by our group three weeks in advance and I must therefore say that, from our perspective, some of them are late and others are absolutely incomplete. That's why we're going to ask for processing as a bill. Among these limitations I could name many, but I'm going to stick to some. That the VAT on health equipment is 0% seems to us to be a good measure, but it seems to us limited and that it generates an aggravation, Minister. We're working with the finance minister. But you should know that some sanitary materials, especially those of one use, such as robes, monkeys and other surgical protection elements, tax 0% and, instead, reusables are taxing 21%. Therefore, when we make a speech about circular economy we must be consistent with the measures we take. Let us hope that this work that we are doing with the Ministry of Finance, which I would also like the Ministry of Economic Affairs to support, will bear fruit. Measures regarding rental of business premises, especially for self-employed persons and SMEs, are also limited. We propose that when the owner is not a big fork there be some tax incentive for those who totally or partially condone the rents, in the case of SMEs and self-employed affected by the COVID. These incentives could be translated into better treatment of the rest of the real estate income for these small forks if they reach agreements with their tenants. Madam Minister, we do not agree at all with the creation of the Spain Global Sport Foundation. It does not fit here nor does it fit our concept of how sport should be organized. Nor do we agree with your suggestions - not, I'm sorry, Mrs Lozano's - on the reallocation and use of the audiovisual rights of football in relation to this foundation. Let us hope that they are sensitive and that this can be resolved by the corresponding amendments. I am not going to waste the opportunity, Minister - as some spokesman has already done - to tell you that we are at the disposal of the agreement, but that our capacity to assume the accession contracts is running out. Let us therefore hope that this predisposition will not be missed. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u171	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u172	Good afternoon, Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, this morning we discussed the third royal decree-law on labour and economic measures to try to alleviate the devastating effects of the pandemic, another after 8 and 11. As we have been defending on different occasions, there are measures that we share, others that remain short and many that continue to shine for their absence. I disagree with Mr Errejón: more than every bus, it's a microbus. And even though we're a microbus, we don't see them stopping this at all either. Self-employed and SMEs, the star measure for our group. This Act incorporates a moratorium on the payment of rent for commercial premises for SMEs and self-employed persons. Hallelujah! It is a highly demanded measure by the sector and should have been addressed from the first minute when the state of alarm was decreed. The primary objective of public administrations should and should be to avoid, at all costs, the breaking of the payment chain, the availability of liquidity for businesses, the possibility of paying their workers and the availability of resources for families. We find ourselves at a time when it is up to the self-employed, small entrepreneurs, the responsibility not only to resist without lowering the blind, but to relaunch productive activity so that the economy does not sink and thus to prevent thousands of jobs from being destroyed. This being the situation, there is no more reasonable measure than exemption from the payment of the autonomous quota. I'm afraid they're going to put it in my second name to repeat it so much. Street vendors. Now, Madam Vice-President, I would like to be from this rostrum the voice of some CEOs, who are not usually received in the ministries. The situation of street vendors is very delicate. Confinement measures have stopped their activity and many of them have not yet been able to resume it and, like many other groups, have not gained any income throughout this period. As we have already claimed, the measures must be maintained until the sector is back in full normality. We simply ask common sense to deal with all these issues and to listen to the severely affected groups. Portability. I have already reminded you in the Commission that these fixed portabilitys are still prohibited at various stages of decontainment, a fact which is currently happening only - as you remember - in the Republic of Peru and part of South Africa. These prohibitions, which only favour large telecommunications companies, should be made more flexible. Last week you told me you were on it. Are you still in it? Shall we, please, set a date? Advance reservations. It is a very serious issue, even if it is not directly related to her task, but she is the economic vice-president of the Government and I understand that it also concerns her. We ask them not to abandon the tourism sector to their fate. We demand - and so we have put forward a proposal in this regard - that all those small entrepreneurs in the tourism industry, such as camping, rural houses, hostels, the option of redeeming, for a bonus of eighteen months, all those reservations cancelled for reasons of the COVID, because we cannot start them in a direct competitive situation. Also, for all those tickets sold for festivals we must give a longer time period to return these amounts, and give more time to recover to the companies most affected by the pandemic. And, minister, we don't need to invent anything. This time we welcome what they invent, we look at what the economies of our environment have done and we do exactly the same; Holland, France, Germany, whatever you want. Measures to strengthen corporate financing. Minister, I feel like I'm repeating myself, it'll sound like a repeat, but last week ICO loans didn't work and they're still not working. More information is available; Pimec's study, which I have already commented on; and you will have already seen his lordship's affection for the government, even in Bloomberg. [[The third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, Calviño Santamaría, makes negative signs]] You say no; I'll look for the cut. They act quickly to stop abusive practices, because if liquidity does not reach the productive tissue we will simply run out of tissue. Next Monday Esquerra will also ask the Governor of the Banco de España to explain this, because I understand that they are the Governor's powers. [[Third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, Calviño Santamaría, makes affirmative signs]] Morosity. It's the top, the sonsonet in my speech, I'm sorry. They continue to put an end to the scourge of lateness. If big companies and public administrations paid what they had, at sixty and thirty days respectively, the negligible amount of EUR 130 billion would be released. Tax measures. This royal decree also reduces the so-called health VAT to a zero rate. Hallelujah too! It was absolutely embarrassing for the state to participate in 24 % of the spoilage of the virus's containment products. Assignment pending: to reach the final consumer, to the pharmacies. We will present an amendment to this effect. As we have been defending, these measures are not enough. In order for this crisis not to be paid for, we always have to make more ambitious decisions. We call for social measures, such as a remunerated and interchangeable leave for the care of family members essential to ensure the social, labour and family reconciliation that has been affected by COVID; an outstanding subject of the Government, a measure more than all announced and not fulfilled. We demand this essential remuneration to alleviate the effects of those who have been forced to reduce their working hours to ensure the care of dependent children, children and older persons. We also demand - and I conclude - that once and for all they release the surplus of the municipalities in order to be able to devote it to social policies and alleviate the effects of the crisis. We need, Minister, a strong public sector that makes the necessary public investment to ensure the well-being of all citizens, and the municipalities are the first to face situations of vulnerability. It is therefore necessary for you to have all the resources available and for you to allow the more than 27 billion paralysed in banking institutions to be mobilised in order to cope with this extreme situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u173	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u174	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. If someone has given the tone necessary to face a situation as dangerous and exceptional as the present one, it has been - in my opinion - Dr. Fernando Simón. Being one of the greatest experts in epidemics in our country, he has been very far from such a categorical attitude, even so apodictic, that it predominates in Spanish politics since I have at least used reason; a gentleman who accidentally assumes a crucial role and whose decisions affect to a greater or lesser extent all of us. In other words, a person who is arrogated by an exceptional power that has arisen and yet is able to recognize errors not already past but the possibility even to commit them in the future, who assumes at the front the ignorance of the evolution of many of the variables that decisively affect our lives and who also has the humility to recognize it publicly, without stridentities, without scarecrows, without tricks or impostures. Finally, a balm of modesty in this sea of testosterone, which is Spanish politics today. I say all this because, if something has taught us by Dr. Simon, it is that truth so socratic that we must recognize that we barely know the terrain on which we are moving, which does not mitigate the fact that we have to make decisions. That is to say, that we have to adapt to the ground - if I may have the verb - that we have to improvise, as has already been accused - in my opinion without justification - the Government. Again, the measures contained in this royal decree-law that we are called today to validate are a perfect example of that capacity for adaptation that this Government is demonstrating, and they are because they only do complete, extend and define some of the measures already adopted in validated texts - as has been said - in addition to simplifying some of the requirements. I was going to detail some of the many measures contained in this text, but given the shortness of my time and the prolific nature of the explanations given by the Minister, I will simply say that you have been asked here in this rostrum, Minister, that these measures are late. Indeed, these measures were taken almost three weeks ago in a Council of Ministers. After all, we are only here to validate it and, in this sense, I always have the feeling that, at a time of crisis like this, these fifteen working days that pass between approval and validation are an ocean of time in which perhaps too many things pass. [[The lady]] I have also heard criticism in a sense and on the contrary in the same speech, which does not surprise me. There is something - if I may - schizophrenic about it being said that the government does not listen, but when something changes because it has heard, then it is said to improvise. You have to be a little consistent in criticism too. If you put the government on one side, what you can't do is give it on the other. In that sense, we all have to be a little more coherent. Far from recognizing this process of prudent improvement in which the Government is going, the People's Party continues to climb there, on its mountain, sharing its quota with the ultra-right, ready to make the opposition more voracious, more irrational, more useless than we have ever seen. Do you know of the urgency and relevance of the measures proposed to validate? Do you know that even the Government agrees to negotiate amendments to them as part of its bill? That is, a vote in favour does not imply having to eat lentils and therefore they could participate in its validation, without having to subscribe to the whole of what this decree-law contains. But no, they prefer to remain on the counterattack, on the fake tactics, to harm the Government, thus having an undeniable negative side effect on the future of our country. What does it matter if, after all, something scratches. But the truth is that this path is leading them directly to irrelevance, as has already been shown in the last extension of the state of alarm, in which the sense of their vote, after so much pose and so much threat, turned out to be simply that, irrelevant. Madam Vice-President, we are now getting to know each other and you know that I cannot conclude a debate on the Spanish economy without having introduced the European issue, the mother of all debates. As our colleague, MEP Ernesto Urtasun, said very well, if there are countries that are benefiting from the creation of the euro and the existence of the internal market, this must also be translated into mechanisms of taxation and shared indebtedness. This is a truth like a temple. There has to be an ambitious European fiscal policy, Minister; there has to be a European tax on big fortunes, big digital companies. There must be a European minimum living income. Finally, there must be a regional commitment to tax havens operating within the Union itself. But, moreover, this fiscal effort must be accompanied by a monetary accumulation as never before seen in Europe. Indeed, the Central Bank has already announced the launch of the pandemic emergency purchase programme, with up to EUR 750 billion, which reassured the markets, since the first commitment to expand the purchase of assets by only EUR 120 billion led to widespread falls in the Spanish exchanges - the Ibex came to fall by 6%. These two amounts, together with the purchase programme reactivated in November 2019, already commit a total of 1.1 billion euros for the purchase of assets during the current year. In addition, Mrs Lagarde and her team have blown up the Draghi conditionalities for the purchase of public debt, while last week they have acquired a volume of EUR 34 billion, or 54% more than the previous week. This is a clear challenge to the recent ruling of the German Constitutional Court, which for a moment has suffered some kind of collective regression and has been believed to be legislative on the deutsche mark. These measures, by the way, have already allowed Spain, in the last auction of the Treasury, in which almost EUR 25 billion has been raised, to recollect by letters at nine months, thus recovering this negative profitability. In any case - and despite the astronomical amounts that this accommodative monetary policy entails for anyone - it may not be enough. We may soon have to reform the treaties - as the Commission said the other day - in order to allow the purchase of sovereign debt in primary markets. Deputy Elvira Rodríguez almost fell round me the other day in the Commission when I suggested it, perhaps not knowing that the US Federal Reserve announced, at the end of March, the unlimited purchase of assets in the primary market - in the primary market - for as long as necessary. In just ten weeks, the EDF has acquired US Treasury debt worth $1.5 trillion, more than anything committed for the year by the European Central Bank. You see, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it turns out that Trump has appointed the reserve governor to a dangerous economic subversive such as Mr Jerome Powell. But also in Japan they are in the hands of heretics when their central bank discovers the maximum of 80 billion yen a year in buying public debt bonds back on the primary market. And what about the British! Directly, they have gone mad, as they have opened up the possibility for the Bank of England to finance directly to the State without even going to the issue of debt. Definitely, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, one day you will awaken from your neo-liberal orthodox fantasy and discover that you have become more alone than one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u175	Thank you, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Applause]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u176	Thank you very much, Madam President. I cannot begin without expressing my strongest revulsion at the threats, contempt and insults that the Vice-President of the Government has here, and for the second week in a row. As for the lessons of democracy that a communist of balance and corner intends to give, irony is so acute that it does not deserve further comment, only to record the inadequacy of this individual to the responsibility that has been conferred on him. Clearly, it is great for him, and the hate speech he has been verbalizing these days is simply a reflection of his frustration at his own incompetence. Madam Minister, we are not like some of you, so I will start by telling you that the royal decree-law that we are discussing today contains some merits, we will not deny it; in fact, in this parliamentary group we have ever approved and supported initiatives from your group, which your group has never done with ours. It is a royal decree that contains some corrections that we thank you for, because the moratoriums and tax facilities are always welcome, even if they are late, and certainly much later after we have proposed it here. But it is also a real confusing decree-law because it addresses, as has been said above, a number of aspects in tax matters, split payments, modules, tax deadlines, rental VAT, the Fundación España Sport Global... Very varied things. But, unfortunately, it is above all a royal decree-law disloyal, like others who have brought to this House before, and that is why we cannot vote in favour, because they again take advantage of the state of alarm to regulate by royal decree-law matters that in no case have justified the extraordinary and urgent need. Taking advantage of the circumstances, this government, without debate in this House, has wanted to eliminate the autonomy of the management of the state's passive class regime affecting the pensions of nearly 650 000 civil servants, police and guards, and VOX will not allow a new abuse of the sovereignty of all Spaniards. That is why, and even if it was only because of this, I would like to tell you that we will vote no today and, in addition, we will appeal to the Constitutional Court what we consider to be a trap decree. Minister, this royal decree-law is another missed opportunity to give oxygen to those who are drowning. We've been saying it for two months, we're repeating it to the point of satiety: liquidity and employment. But it is that, every day that happens, the time factor is much more sensitive. I repeat: we are coming late, because there are more and more people who are not getting liquidity, there are many and are seriously affecting them. This same Monday, two days ago, I called a woman named Marta, a serious, qualified, trained professional, and I have faith because I have worked with her before. She is a young woman, she does not reach the age of forty, she has recently married, she has had a baby and she was beginning to live a comfortable life, she had a good salary, because she had earned it with her effort, but the company where she worked was forced to commit an ERTE. So Marta now goes on to depend on SEPE's income, but she said to me herself: I have a mortgage, I have a car letter, the baby's expenses and I'm not getting the 200 euros that SEPE is sending me. It's impossible to live like this. SEPE is not paying the amount due either to Marta or to almost 300,000 Spaniards like her, who two months later still do not charge what is due to them. Some do not charge anything, and others much less than they should, and when they call to claim what is theirs, they do not even attend to them. The state has failed Marta and many people like Marta. But you know what? The State had never failed to collect its taxes and social contributions; the State had never failed the self-employed to collect their share, not even in the months in which they were not allowed to work for the same self-employed, because even by forbidding the Spanish to work, those shares have continued to be collected. We are not arriving in time for liquidity, Minister, nor are we arriving in time for employment. Not arriving in time explains that we have not avoided a devastating destruction of employment in this country, almost a million jobs, and that Spain today is the country of Europe where unfortunately unemployment grows the most. Not arriving in time also explains that we have not prevented the deterioration of the productive tissue. At this point, the destruction of 133 000 companies has brought us back to nineteen years ago. Minister, the other day I was asking you how it was possible that you would leave that phrase of 'no one behind' while a million workers go to unemployment and three and a half million workers wait for what comes after the ERTEs. I believe that I have given the explanation, and that is that for a social-communist government it is not about creating jobs, it is about providing subsidies. That was the reason why the Minister of Labour took pride in assuming that there are already nearly 5 200 000 paid benefits, that is to say 5 200 000 Spaniards who are unable to work. That is the reason why Paul Iglesias wants to make permanent extraordinary rents to alleviate the effects of this crisis. Even you yourself revealed in this rostrum a couple of weeks ago a mistrust in the private sector of an economic minister in which people have so many hopes. So it is clear that you do not believe in those who create jobs, and you are wrong, because employment is dignity, employment is prosperity and employment is the best social policy. That is why many of us are exceptionally demanding a more forceful response from the state to save businesses and jobs, as in the United Kingdom, where the Boris Johnson government has just adopted a measure identical to what we have been claiming here so many times. The British will see how their government, which has prevented them from going to work, covers 80% of their salary for four months. 80% of four are 3.2 monthly payments, exactly what we have been claiming in VOX, as I say, for several weeks. In this it is certain that the British Government is more successful, because it has guaranteed liquidity and has guaranteed the employment of the United Kingdom. The British have had better luck with their government than the Spanish have with ours. Madam Minister, the aim of Spain cannot be to become a country of subsidies dependent on a state wage. Supporting the Spaniards who are temporarily out of work can be a temporary remedy, but our common goal must be to create jobs again with intensity, and to do so we must encourage the activity of those who create jobs and not hinder them, to promote a legal and fiscal framework that will make Spain an attractive country for investment and job generation. But we are going in the wrong direction, which is to raise taxes and tax burdens on work, and the only thing I have heard here today from certain groups is the same way, to raise more taxes, which is equivalent to destroying employment. It is already known that the creativity of the left to invent taxes is legendary, but by analysing the stability programme that you have sent to Brussels we note that the voraciousness of your government seems to have no brakes this time. You are able to raise taxes even more than superminister Montoro, that is. The reconstruction of Spain, if we take it seriously, can only take place with a programme of profound reforms of the state and reduction of superfluous expenditure, but none of this is found in the National Reform Plan sent to Brussels last week. Instead, we have outbursts of communism, a totalitarian ideology whose defeat after the fall of the Berlin Wall thirty years ago we have commemorated throughout the West last November with great joy, a joy only comparable to that felt these days in which the fall, seventy-five years ago, of Nazism - i.e. of national socialism - is also commemorated in Europe. Both victories took place at critical moments when a part of Europe saw the future with despair, something similar to what is happening today, but at that time, by setting an example of what happened in the United Kingdom, Chamberlain's appeasement policy was replaced and faced by Lloyd George, who was able to identify the problem that would mark the beginning of the solution, and said: The nation is prepared to take on any sacrifice, but it will only do so as long as there is leadership and the government clearly says what it wants and the nation is convinced that those who lead it give the best of themselves. As you all know, the story ended well, the Commons called for Chamberlain's resignation and he accepted it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u177	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I would have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u178	Well, let's get this over with. Like then, the problem we have today is identified with its leader, who is called Pedro Sánchez. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that today the Spanish nation is also prepared to write a story of recovery and success, but that will only be possible if there is moral leadership, if the Spanish are told the truth and the best are put to serve Spain. It is therefore today a duty of justice to ask those who are not in a position to lead the reconstruction to leave, and that sacrifice will be the best they can give to Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u179	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Valentina. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u180	Thank you, President. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. First, I want to convey a message of support and affection to all families who have lost one of their own during this pandemic. I can imagine how hard it was. Secondly, I would like to express my support and admiration for all those workers, employers, organisations and politicians responsible for essential services, especially health care, for having taken such good care of us during these two months. Finally, I would like to express a message of appreciation to the Spaniards for their exemplary behavior. Truly, we are a great people and a great nation. Analyzing the royal decree law, I will tell you that there are some good measures, some of them were already proposed by the opposition and civil society, but I must put on the table the shortcomings in order to try to resolve them. This is one of the functions of a democratic opposition. Apart from those that have already been mentioned - and I will try not to repeat myself - for example, in the moratorium on the leasing of commercial premises, if the lessor is not a great fork, apart from being able to use the bail, no action is proposed. Self-employed tenants and income-free entrepreneurs therefore maintain their problem and are not provided with a solution. Funding support measures are also improved. The Insurance Compensation Consortium is empowered to develop credit and security reinsurance activities to facilitate the flow of liquidity between companies, but at the same time Cesce - which, I believe, remains the property of the majority state - has closed the credit to small and autonomous companies. This should be resolved immediately or will result in the definitive closure of many of them, as is already happening. You, Madam Vice-President, were talking about some cases that are not being covered in the case of funding. Of course, it is clear that you are not directly called because, if that were the case, I would not say what you have said to us. As far as tax measures are concerned, they are scarce and late in some cases, such as the fractional payment of corporation tax. I do not tell you to listen to us, but at least take examples from other countries in our environment that have put forward strong fiscal measures. Its meagre momentum will again cause crisis and massive closures. I remind you that the 30 June deadline for positive income statements is maintained, and it is certain that there will be many people who will not be able to take on that payment. As far as measures of economic flexibility and employment protection are concerned, there are a few, and we welcome the new change in the case of ERTs. It seems that yesterday they approved a new change and, in spite of everything, it still needs to be improved. Let us hope that we can do so in the parliamentary process if processing is allowed as a bill. I would like to ask the ministers concerned to resolve and take action on the problem of agricultural employment, which is still unresolved. We have serious doubts about the transfer of pension management of civilian and military officials from the passive class regime from the Ministry of Finance to the new Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. The insecurity, fear and uncertainty generated by some 650 000 contributor families require regular processing, explaining the reality and scope of the measure. It is not acceptable for the Government to take advantage of the situation and use a real decree-law during the state of alarm to absolutely surprise the transfer of pensions from public officials; it is, on the other hand, measure that has nothing to do with the health crisis resulting from the COVID. We also have doubts about the need for the usual miscellany of measures that hang in the royal extraordinary decrees and that have nothing to do with the COVID-19. It is the new way of legislating a government that keeps Congress low and that increasingly reminds us of that of other latitudes, which were advised by those who today sit with you in the Council of Ministers. As we see in the innumerable virtual meetings we hold with civil society, this legislation also concerns many groups that had pending or are in the process of implementing legislation that is important to them. Therefore, in this royal decree we will abstain in the vote and support its processing as a bill. And do not tell us, Mr PSOE or Mr Confederal Group, that we are damaging the action of the Government or the country; if we abstain, there are not enough votes to bring down a proposal from the Government, but we want it to be our disagreement with its form of legislation. The People's Party has put forward hundreds of initiatives; we have a project different from that of the current government, so we want to convey hope in the future to all Spaniards. Another way of governing is possible, if not the economic recession will be greater than in other countries. Neither the health crisis is symmetrical - depends on the speed and effectiveness of the response - nor the economic and social crisis is going to be symmetrical for the following reasons. First of all, our starting point is bad, the slowdown was a reality, even if it was already destroying jobs, but it was denied and not reacting. On the contrary, the party interest, the cost of election Fridays, and the deficit generated amounted to more than EUR 18 billion, which would now be very much needed. Secondly, our vulnerability is greater. The shock of supply to the most affected sectors - services, tourism and automobiles account for more than 50% of our GDP - joins the shock of demand for the consequences of confinement. In addition, there is the mismanagement of public accounts and high debt. All this makes us particularly vulnerable. Thirdly, it did not react in time. On 4 March, at the same time as the OECD reduced global growth by between 0.5 and 1.5, you, Mrs Calviño, claimed that the impact of coronavirus in Spain would be insignificant and transitory. With this diagnosis the initial measurements were insufficient, losing a key time. Finally, the lack of coordination of the Government, the delay and ineffectiveness of some measures, the collapse of the administration at basic levels and the ideological bias that has been progressively imposed in economic matters put at risk the business continuity of much of our productive fabric, which will not only exacerbate the depth of the recession, but will delay the exit of it. I remind you that without companies there is no job. We must add the partyist descalation, the money that does not arrive or arrive late to the workers, to the companies; the constant changes of criteria that create uncertainty and zozobra. In the end, handing over all powers to the Government through the state of alarm does not seem to be good for the country, taking into account how this Government uses it and having the possibility to derive all measures through current laws in force. The state of alarm is a matter of confidence. We Spaniards place trust, maximum confidence, in a government and this government returns to us the maximum incompetence. Therefore, this has to end; it is neither necessary nor deserved. I'm done, President. As an article I read last week - I open quotes - said: 'Sanchez's weakness is his own desire for power and the position of weakness in which that anxiety places him. Weakness accentuated by its incapacity, almost genetic, to forge sincere alliances with reliable partners. The Achilles heel of Sanchez is its consequenceism.' I close quotes. There are three categories of consequenceism: altruism, utilitarianism and moral selfishness. I will not ask you, Madam Vice-President, which of them places President Sánchez because we all know, he has shown us on countless occasions. Mr Sánchez is in moral selfishness, which says that actions are morally correct if they produce positive consequences for the agent, in this case Mr Sánchez. That is not the president that this country needs at the moment, nor do I think it is the one that the Spanish want. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u181	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u182	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. I want my first words in this forum of the Congress of Deputies to be of solidarity to all the victims of this pandemic and their families. The best tribute we can pay to civil society in Spain is to continue working every day to improve people's lives. I would also like to thank all those people who continue to work for others and who have established the verb to care for them as their flag and their lives, always for the benefit of all citizens. Today we bring a new royal decree to validate this House, which has once again explained the Vice-President of the Government, with new measures to support families, self-employed people, workers and businesses. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, we have had to listen again to everything in this House; you have spoken of everything and many things had nothing to do with this royal decree. You will have thought about what you came to talk about in your book, regardless of the government's action. Well, I'm also going to talk about my book, but our book is the book of people's lives, the book we're working with every day to improve the living conditions of civil society. In that book, ladies and gentlemen, we have invited you - and we will continue to do so from this rostrum and from the Council of Ministers - to join in writing pages to improve the life of Spain. We have had to listen to many things this morning, you have criticized the measures of the Government, you have called it ideological bias, you have even said that we are paying subsidies to make new stops, you have even said that the State is failing thousands of families and thousands of workers. Faced with that, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you in this context, what is the Government of the nation doing, what are those more than five million new benefits that the Government of the nation has launched to protect families, workers and self-employed people? In this country, ladies and gentlemen, there are today more than 3 million workers who are in receipt of an EERT; in this country, ladies and gentlemen, there are more than 1 million self-employed persons who are receiving the cessation benefit and do not pay the quota; in this country, ladies and gentlemen, there are more than 300,000 operations by so many companies that have taken over the ICO lines to promote the maintenance of economic and business activity. All this is also for the benefit of municipalities and autonomous communities. I always set the example of a small autonomous community such as that in Cantabria: measures, which can sometimes sound very generic, which the Government has launched have benefited, for example, 57 000 men and women in Cantabria. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what the Government of the nation is doing. If for you that is not working for the general interest, what is it, ladies and gentlemen? Probably for you, who have a strange conception of the general interest, the answer is that given in 2012 to the economic crisis. Just to recall, in that economic crisis, the subsidy for those over fifty-two years old was ended, the dependency law was paralyzed, labour reform was approved, science and research were cut, basic income of emancipation was eliminated. That is the difference from what you, ladies and gentlemen, did when you had the opportunity to govern to respond to the crisis. Well, we are clear - the Government is clear and the Vice-President is clear - that in this new crisis we have to work to leave no one behind, for no worker, for no self-employed and for no family to stay on the road. It is fair to acknowledge today in this rostrum that the Government is making the greatest constitutional effort in forty years of democracy to alleviate the effects of this serious economic crisis. I would like to record from this rostrum the recognition of that work that the Government is doing today. To what end? I said this before, in order to generate a great shield of social protection so that employment policies for the most affected sectors - such as tourism, industry, trade and transport - do not fall back on that shared level of tackling the health crisis, the economic crisis and the social crisis. Never forget, ladies and gentlemen, all the measures that the Government of the nation has had to do were, first of all, to save lives, to save the lives of men and women in this country. That is why there are many economic measures that this Government has had to take. And I ask them what their alternative was. You have spent many hours in this rostrum criticizing the actions of the Government of the nation, but what was your alternative, what were your proposals to fight in such a complicated situation? We tell you that ours is going to continue unabated and that is why we will continue to reach out to you on measures and initiatives to save the economic activity and life of people; of those who have a small business or a bar; of those small entrepreneurs who have less than ten workers; of those companies which have two hundred workers and have had to stop the activity; also of all those people who are teleworking in their homes, many of them young; of all those researchers or scientists or in the cultural sector; of farmers, farmers or the fishing sector, or also of all those people who need political help at some point. In short, how to help improve people's lives. And to this we place them in the validation of this royal decree that includes thirty new measures that has well explained the vice president economic and in the future this afternoon also in the Commission for Economic and Social Reconstruction. That is the shared work of this House, which we have all the parliamentary groups, which has the whole of civil society. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens will be able to forgive us for the mistakes we make in managing this health, economic and social crisis, but what they will not forgive us is that in such exceptional circumstances as those we are experiencing we will not be able to agree. And that is where the task is shared, from the government but also from the opposition, which has to tie its shoulder as if it were also ruling. That spirit of agreement, of loyalty of the country, of commitment to the citizens will help you today to understand these measures of the Government of the nation, their urgency and the need for validation by this House. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Casares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 16/2020, OF 28 APRIL, OF PROCESSAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL MEASURES TO FRONT COVID-19 IN THE FIELD OF THE ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE. [[File number: 130/000017]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u184	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 16/2020, procedural and organizational measures to deal with COVID-19 in the field of the Administration of Justice. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Justice has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u185	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon. I go to plenary to ask for your vote in favour of the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 16/2020, approved by the Council of Ministers on 28 April, of procedural and organizational measures to deal with COVID-19 in the field of the administration of justice. Before I begin my exhibition, I would like to dedicate my memory to those who have lost their lives as victims of the pandemic, as well as their families and friends. I would also like to convey my utmost consideration to the professionals who have made it possible with their tireless work to reduce the effects of COVID-19. In the same way, let me thank those from that justice sector who have allowed justice not to stop, but at no time the justice that desists from it. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeared almost three months ago in the Committee on Justice to present the strategic project Justice 2030, a plan to turn justice into a public service, but not just any public service, but one that is appropriate to the expectations and needs of today's society. Last week some of you heard me in the Committee on Justice say that this project, Justice 2030, was still necessary, is in force. I therefore maintain my commitment. However, the current circumstances oblige us to adapt and give a priority response to the crisis caused by the coronavirus. A response that, in any case, must be coherently integrated into the road map that we have marked ourselves to drive our Justice Administration, and to that we are called today, to carry out a collective responsibility exercise by validating this royal decree-law. Ladies and gentlemen, this rule is one more piece, an important piece in the gear of our collective and institutional response to the virus; a crucial step in reactivating justice after the stoppage, preparing it for new scenarios and consolidating the foundations of transformation. The social damage caused by the pandemic is affecting and will seriously affect the administration of justice. Surgical actions are needed within the 2030 Justice strategic framework, with a clear aim of safeguarding the provision of public service and ensuring the health of the people who provide and receive it. To this end, we have prepared a plan for recovery that, due to the circumstances, has become our Zero Justice Plan 2030; I want to give a few brushstrokes on this plan so that you know the context in which the rule that I am asking you to validate today is integrated. Perhaps your most characteristic note is consensus; I have heard it many times in this rostrum but, I insist, despite the attitude of some groups, I hope that the idea will fall. Since the beginning of the crisis, we have actively promoted dialogue and participation as the main tool for consensus-building in decision-making and coordination of action taken. Proof of this is the establishment of the Commission for the Coordination of Crisis of the Administration of Justice, a strengthened mechanism for the fight against coronavirus. We have worked intensively in that Commission, together with the Justice Departments of the twelve autonomous communities with transferred powers; the General Council of the Judiciary, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions and subsequently the General Council of the Law also joined that Commission. In addition, we have listened with the utmost attention to all sectors: the judiciary, the prosecution, staff at the service of the Administration of Justice and professionals in the sector, and we have sought to ensure that their participation is real and effective. We will certainly be able to do better, do not have any doubt, but I believe that the co-governance process in this crisis has been very meritorious in this area, and the results support us. Thus, for example, from the minute one of this crisis we agreed on the essential services that should continue to be provided within the Administration of Justice, and all of them with absolute consensus. Subsequently, we agreed with all the autonomous communities on staffing to ensure their coverage, which was set at 10 per cent. This was even reduced to 5% when mobility limitation measures were stepped up. Despite the coordination mechanisms, or perhaps thanks to them, we have given rapid responses according to the evolution of the pandemic, adjusting them to the regulations of the state of alarm. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that co-governance in these terms is the most intelligent and efficient way of managing this serious crisis, not an excuse to resign from its own responsibility, but, quite the contrary, it means being responsible for its own actions, as well as for the decisions shared between the various institutions and administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, our political and management actions have consequences, at this moment there is not the close look of those who measure the results of their actions in loss or gain of electoral expectations; we must be responsible, we must be fully aware that here we are not only judging votes, ladies and gentlemen, here we are managing measures aimed at safeguarding the lives and health of thousands of people. That attitude has presided over the work and involvement of all sectors of Justice; from the unions to the ideologically more distant autonomous communities to the Government we have worked with loyalty and determination, and we have always done so from respect for each other's competences, and in particular the processes of coordination in response to the pandemic at no time have meant the re-centralisation or invasion of competences, but their strengthening through the necessary coordination that the crisis required, but which still requires. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express in a very particular way my thanks to the various Councils of Justice and their officials. Their concrete contributions and their dialogueal attitude, despite the different points of view, have contributed decisively to generating a common response in key aspects. I thank him even more for those councils led by people who belong to parties and political sensibilities other than those of the central government; I am referring to the councils of the People's Party, the Regionalist Party of Cantabria, Citizens or the Republican Left. Their efforts to reach consensus are, if possible, more commendable in these times of confrontation. I hope your co-religionaries, whom I am now addressing, are up to speed. Even more, the decree that I bring to this House today is not a decree of the Government, it is of the whole justice sector. This is a standard drawn up by mutual agreement to address issues of extraordinary necessity and urgency affecting the public service of justice. It is fair, therefore, to share not only efforts, but also merits. Let those who intend to use this debate to make the government weary of the work of the public justice service as a whole. This is a rule that we all need to respond effectively to the crisis: central government, autonomous communities, the Council of the Judiciary, prosecution and professional groups, and more importantly, this is a rule that the whole citizenry needs to preserve and reactivate at such a delicate time an essential public service. That is why I ask you to live up to it. While it may be tempting to play skirmishes and try to make the Government lose a vote, I ask you not to do so at the expense of the public justice service. Don't misunderstand me, I'm not asking for unconditional adherence. As I said a moment ago, promoting agreements, listening and encouraging participation does not imply unanimity. Unanimity does not exist in democratic forums like this, nor is it desirable. The various perspectives enrich the exercise of democracy. Thus, each Administration, party or professional group carries out assessments that are sometimes contradictory. Our job is to listen, find the points of coincidence and make decisions that will not always be shared by all participants in the decision-making process. What I ask of you is responsibility, what I ask of you is loyalty. Responsibility to discuss the content of the royal decree in its terms, assessing its suitability to fulfill its purposes; loyalty as a way to preserve and respect the co-governance formulas we have endowed ourselves with. In this regard, I make a special appeal to the parties represented in this House who also have governmental responsibilities in autonomous communities. They respect and value the work of their party comrades, be loyal to the coordination and co-governance mechanisms that we have all accepted in the Justice sector and, if they have to disagree, do so, but not because the royal decree bears the signature of a president they do not like. Have the political courage to explain why they reject the measures called for by those in their party who have managerial responsibilities. In short, ladies and gentlemen, responsibility and loyalty, not with the Government, but with yourselves. I cannot conclude this paragraph, ladies and gentlemen, without addressing all the parliamentary groups and, in particular, the spokespersons of the Committee on Justice. I was grateful to be able to appear last Wednesday and listened carefully to your proposals and also your criticisms. I know that many of these criticisms will be repeated today, but let me tell you that we take note of those made in a constructive spirit, the vast majority, because they will certainly help improve our response to the crisis. I take the opportunity to send my best wishes for recovery to Mr. Ortega Smith. As for those who settle in the no to everything, little I have to tell them. For that reason, I will devote nothing but an affirmation to that minority, which is shamefully active in the promotion of chrispation, falsehood and bulwark. They are unable to understand even what the co-governance or the solidarity and collective construction of our country means. And since we do not believe in the empire of the simulacrum, but in the democracy of the facts, they do not deserve to be given one more word. I shall now refer to the current situation in which the Administration of Justice is located and which justifies the measures we are taking. The first message I want to convey is that justice has not closed, it has maintained its activity in relation to the essential services set out in Royal Decree 463/2020 to which I referred earlier. It would have been irresponsible to close the courts, ladies and gentlemen. However, in relation to the other not so urgent matters, the crisis caused by COVID-19 and the necessary measures to combat it have led to a marked slowdown in activity. I am mainly referring to the suspension of procedural deadlines and the reduction of face-to-face work to avoid contagion. According to the calculations carried out by the Ministry of Justice, the judicial offices will have carried out only 20% of the work they would have done in normal circumstances during the alarm period. Therefore, when the state of alarm rises, we will find that the normal volume of litigation will add 80% of the work that has been postponed. And to all this will be added the issues caused by the crisis. As I said a moment ago, I bring this royal decree on behalf of the entire Justice sector. The measures it contains are key for the coming years, but above all for the coming months. On the one hand, we will see a marked increase in litigation, and on the other hand, justice will have to be a driving force for the economy, because that is the only way it will be able to respond to a society that is extremely tense, socially and economically. According to our forecasts, the growth of social jurisdiction cases will increase by 2020 to 31%, reaching 140% by 2021, more than a million new cases. With these data, the trend will be 165 %. In the civil sphere, the increase in new cases will range from 30 to 145% in just one year. Thus, the increase in pending cases can be around 180%. And in the contentious-administrative jurisdiction we are dealing with an increase in new cases from 35 to 125 per cent. Finally, another relevant information is the forecasting of applications for a creditor's tender. We calculate that the increase can be 246 % for this year's exercise and 619 % for next year. That is, of the barely seven thousand contests presented in 2019, we would reach about 50,000 next year. I want to insist on that, ladies and gentlemen. It is our duty as a government to put all means in place to minimize the economic and social impact that will hit us over the next few months, but it is the responsibility of this House to facilitate this through the validation of the Royal Decree-Law as a first step towards this. Citizenship demands this exercise of collective responsibility. From this analysis, it is vitally important to draw up a sensible road map - sensible and measured - for this period of descalation that we are starting. After the containment phase, we must think of a plan that will lead us as safely as possible towards a new normality, also in the administration of justice. I am convinced that a proper descalation in Justice will contribute to the economic and social recovery of our country. That road map, as I said at the beginning of my speech, is the Zero Justice Plan 2030 and focuses on three policy actions. The decree-law that I present to you today is the first step of the ladder. Its objective is to re-launch the justice service with all the necessary guarantees to safeguard the health of professionals and users. As your ladies and gentlemen know, a decree law is constrained by reasons of urgency and necessity, so this rule has a very limited scope. They are necessary measures, but not sufficient to respond to the virulence of the crisis. For this reason, our road map envisages the drafting of a bill of procedural, technological and organizational measures to reactivate and improve the functioning of the public service of justice. This bill, which we hope to adopt during the month of June in the Council of Ministers, will strengthen the digital transformation of our Justice Administration. The rule will also include a commitment determined by mediation as the most appropriate way to resolve many conflicts, a measure aligned with the proposals of the majority of the autonomous communities, and in a very particular way the Council of Justice of Catalonia, with whom we are working very closely in this area. Finally, in accordance with the additional nineteenth provision of the Royal Decree-Law 11/2020, we will promote reactivation plans in the different jurisdictions, especially in the contentious-administrative, commercial and labour areas, to address the situation generated by the stoppage of activity and its economic consequences. These reactivation plans will be adopted by the Council of Ministers once the state of alarm is lifted. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the decree we are discussing today is not an isolated measure - let us be clear - but it is part of a comprehensive plan to reactivate and respond to the crisis: the Zero Justice Plan 2030. I want to insist on this because they are all pieces of a well-planned and consensual puzzle, and also because I know that there has been some tension. Let me now turn to the material content of the royal decree-law. As you know, in the event of extraordinary and urgent need, article 86 of our constitutional text empowers the Government to issue decree-laws with the limitations that you all know. This rule does not affect any of the matters excluded by the Constitution, and responds to the principles of necessity and effectiveness to address a serious situation such as the health crisis of COVID-19. In addition, this is a proportionate standard and is subject to strategic and essential measures to ensure job security and legal certainty. In particular, I must insist that the decree does not affect any matter reserved for organic law. The regulation of matters contained in the Organic Law of the Judiciary in no way implies that the issues regulated in the Royal Decree-Law, such as afternoon shifts or exemption from the use of toga, are organic in nature. In short, there is no problem of constitutionality by rank allocation. I make this clear because of the doubts that this matter had raised in the President of the People's Party. However - I know that Mr Casado knows - at this point I can add little to what the explanatory statement of the Civil Prosecution Act, drafted and approved by governing his party, says. Thus, it is specified with a meridian clarity that the reference in article 122 of the Constitution to the functioning of the courts - I quote textually - 'cannot be understood, and has never been understood, either by the post-constitutional legislator or by jurisprudence and doctrine, as reference to procedural rules'. I'm closing the quotes. It is clear to me, ladies and gentlemen, that procedural issues are not a matter of organic law. Nor do I believe that the urgency or necessity of the measures envisaged here can be called into question. It is about responding to social conflict and reactivating the economy, which is essential in view of the numbers of the pandemic that I have just given them. These are also strategic measures applicable both during the state of alarm and within three months of the end of the state of alarm. Within the first block of measures, I would like to highlight the creation of the COVID-19 courts, whose aim will be to strengthen the issues generated by this crisis. From the ministry we hope to reach the necessary arrangements for many of the hundred and four pending judicial units to become COVID courts. The same block provides for reinforcements with territorial secondment judges and lawyers of the Administration of Justice in practice. The mobility of staff between judicial bodies is also exceptionally enabled. We cannot allow the increase in matters where we already know that the system is going to collapse. Flexibility is essential to avoid it. In order to resume the activity and to update the service, after listening to all the sectors involved, we have enabled absolutely exceptional and only for this year the inoperable days from 11 to 31 August. I must make a point here and make it clear that this measure is, in addition to being necessary, an example of co-governance. Firstly, because it responds to the proposals of various sectors, including many autonomous communities. On the other hand, both in the General Council of the Judiciary and in the Ministry itself, we are taking organizational measures to implement this exceptional and partial authorization of the month of August, in order to serve to boost the activity without harming the professionals of the sector. In this regard, the General Council of the Judiciary adopted a guideline this past Monday ordering that the indictments for August be extraordinary, and that in any case they be scheduled prior to 15 June. These measures are supported by the General Councils of the Attorney General's Office, the Attorney General's Office and the Social Graduates, which issued public communications in this regard yesterday. It is understandable, ladies and gentlemen, the complaints made by some sectors on this issue, but I cannot help but say that, just as the health sector, the State Security Forces and Corpses, the cleaning sector and the food sector have not stopped to give a proper response to the population during the crisis, justice cannot be allowed to reduce its activity for a whole month, since it has had to slow down its operation for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall say this more clearly. With which it is falling, it is unacceptable to instrumentalize the lawyer or seek her to criticize this royal decree. Many professionals need to work to recover from the stall. Others state their legitimate claim to be able to rest a few days in August, which neither distorts nor is incompatible with maintaining activity at a time like this. This is reflected in the guidelines we are adopting, together with the General Council of the Judiciary, and has recently been recognized by many bar associations, such as those in Catalonia or Andalusia. But above all, ladies and gentlemen, let us not lose the focus, which must be on citizenship. It is the result of the public service of justice. In the area of the administration of justice, the collapse can come after the state of alarm has been lifted and, just as the health system has significantly expanded the number of beds to deal with the situation, we must strengthen our structures. We will make an exceptional effort at an equally exceptional time. Society not only understands it, but demands it from us. With regard to occupational safety and risk prevention measures, the Royal Decree provides for the establishment of work shifts in the morning and afternoon on a voluntary basis, the purpose of which is to maintain social distancing without delay in the work of the staff. For this purpose, access to the view rooms and the dispensation of the use of togas will also be limited. At the same time, public attention will be strengthened by telephone and e-mail. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to a measure deriving from Royal Decree-Law 16/2020, which we have taken in common with the General Council of the Judiciary, the Office of the Attorney-General of the State and the Autonomous Communities within the Crisis Coordination Commission. I am referring to the order I signed last Saturday approving the scheme of occupational safety and descalation plan in the Administration of Justice. The rule provides for the gradual reincorporation of judicial officers into the face-to-face service and has already begun to apply. This is a clear example of the importance of this royal decree-law, as it provides coverage for such measures. Of course, non-validation would render all these actions essential for the protection of all staff at this time of increased activity in the courts. The progressive and planned reactivation of justice would simply turn into chaos. Among the technological measures we highlight the legal changes to facilitate the promotion of teleworking, through the improvement of identification and digital signature systems, as well as the empowerment and empowerment of new technologies in the development of views and other procedural acts. With regard to extraordinary procedural measures, it was important to take into account small issues. The resumption of procedural deadlines linked to the stages of the de-escalation plan to which I referred should be carried out by guaranteeing the principle of legal certainty for users and professionals who assist them. Therefore, if the Royal Decree-Law is validated, when the procedural activity resumes, the deadlines will be restarted on a general basis. The alternative once again is legal insecurity; do not encourage it, ladies and gentlemen, for in the best case it will cause a procedural bottleneck of very difficult digestion, and in the worst case the massive loss of actions or procedural rights. With regard to the competition and corporate sphere, measures are envisaged which have a particular impact on the social and economic recovery of this country. They are measures to promote the continuity of the activity of self-employed people and enterprises, to enhance and encourage their financing and to speed up the competition process. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude by asking for your vote in favour. The Decree-Law contains the fundamental instruments to respond most effectively to the consequences of the crisis and to contribute from the Justice Administration to social and economic recovery. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to do a dystopic exercise with me. And I'll explain myself. I have already explained to you the measures and their positive consequences in various areas, such as organisational, occupational safety, technological and procedural. Well, the non-validation will certainly have undesirable consequences. I'll give you two examples. The first relates to the Civil Registry, another reason for which I ask your support. This royal decree-law provides for a new vacatio legis for the entry into force of the Civil Registry Act 20/2011. The abrupt introduction of this law, scheduled for next month, would lead us to the closure of more than 80% of the civil registrations in Spain, and what is worse, without time to implement alternative mechanisms. Explain it to our mayors. Most of you are well aware of this problem and know the broad political and social consensus around it. Good sign of the support that this royal decree has garnered in this respect is the motion of support for it adopted unanimously by the Diputación de Ávila last Monday, deputy presided over by the People's Party, because in this region they are concerned about the future of the Civil Registry beyond party logics. I believe that my determination to address the necessary structural and technological transformation of this institution is well known, but in the present circumstances it is impossible. The vacatio legis that I also ask you to support will enable this debate that we want to bring to this House in the hands of the contributions made by the People's Party. Don't stop it with your refusal to the royal decree-law. The second example is that this Royal Decree-Law adapts two aspects of marked social character regulated by Royal Decree-Law 11/2020. On the one hand, it broadens the availability of pension schemes for self-employed or self-employed workers when they have had a reduction of at least 75 % in their billing. On the other hand, the time limits are extended so that the tenant of the habitual dwelling can make the request for temporary and extraordinary postponement of the payment of the rent. Does it make any sense, ladies and gentlemen, to oppose these extensions of rights necessary for many families, workers and self-employed people? I hope you know how to answer to the citizenry. As you see, non-validation is not irrelevant, it would have consequences that allow me to qualify as dramatic. That's why I asked them to do that dystopia exercise and imagine the next day. I won't list any more examples, but there are. This vote is so important because it directly affects citizens and their right to justice. Ladies and gentlemen, there is certainly a plurality of perspectives, but the policy is to articulate diversity. It is not easy, but I am sure that most of us understand that our duty is to seek the common good, and that today has more to do with the generation of trust than with the exercise of such or such competition or the subordination of one or other party. I therefore ask you to stand high and hold your hand to overcome this crisis from dialogue, participation and, if possible, consensus. Let us validate this royal decree-law, as I hope, and show that we are able, from different political sensibilities, to make the promise of a better future, thought in terms of common interest over legitimate, but decontextualized, differences. This is an added value that from policy we can bring to our country today, ladies and gentlemen. It is time for co-responsibility and co-governance. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u186	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Mr Mazón Ramos is speaking for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u187	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. The first thing I want to say is that, as I have heard from the Cantabria Government, namely the Councillor for the Presidency and Justice, the measures contained in this decree-law have been discussed and agreed with the governments of the Autonomous Communities. Many of these measures are from Cantabria and, in particular, some have actually been accepted. Therefore, Minister, the first thing I want to do is to congratulate you publicly, because the same thing that happened last week at this very place I criticized the fact that the presidents of the autonomous communities felt that they had not been united in this state of alert, today I say that, at least on their plot, as Paula Fernández, our adviser, tells me, has been quite the opposite, and has also acknowledged it publicly. This is a very prolific text, you have detailed it, and you have many procedural measures, where there seems to be a consensus among legal operators. The controversy that has come to me is in August. Between declaring it skillful to all intents and purposes, the solution that has been adopted to make the first ten days unworkable to me seems to me to match very well the need to reduce the workload that has accumulated with the need for some collectives' vacations, as well as the need to work with others who have not been able to do so during this pandemic. August is still far away, and I trust the ability of judges, prosecutors, prosecutors, lawyers and officials to get a good organization. There's time. Therefore, the PRC will be in favour of validation. As I have been repeating in this rostrum, everything can be improved. You're in time to change a lot of things. But it is the Government that is, and it has been the Government's responsibility to make decisions. We are consistent, so our will is to support you until this state of alarm ends, always, logically, that there is nothing strange, nothing unconstitutional or anything foolish or no measure where Cantabria can be harmed or discriminated against. I hope that they do not fall into the temptation to take advantage of this state of alarm to implement measures from their programme that do not have broad parliamentary support, because they probably would not have a very long journey. Justice in a democratic and social rule of law like ours is a key institution, and I think it needs great support. It will have countless conflicts to resolve, between people, between companies, between institutions, and it will all be in a truly dramatic environment. In this line of conflict I want to warn about something enormously dangerous, that it is not the health pandemic, that will soon be cured, nor is it the economic and social pandemic, that it will also be cured, but that it is another pandemic that is incubating itself at strides in the networks, and that is beginning to see in this House: the pandemic of fanaticism. This third pandemic when it spreads and roots has no cure for generations. We have already known throughout history how these drifts of fanaticism culminate. Therefore, I appeal to the responsibility of the groups in this House, so that we can, as soon as possible and in the best possible way, end this state of alarm and agree...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u188	Mr. Mazón, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u189	... a consensual reconstruction plan among all and that avoids more confrontations and conflicts in Spanish society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u190	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u191	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Minister, we will vote against this royal decree-law primarily because it seems to us a great setback, especially with regard to the rights of persons detained or imprisoned. At the penultimate plenary session before the state of alarm we were asked and we did so to Minister Marlaska, and one of the issues that we denounced was the ill-treatment of people detained at last autumn's demonstrations in Catalonia, in response to the Supreme's sentence. We did so on the basis of a report by the Observatory of the Criminal System i the Human Rights, which had interviewed twenty-two of the people who were arrested on those dates. By the way, I take the opportunity to send a hug and a memory to Dani, Charif, Ibrahim and Mouhcine, who have been in pre-trial detention for almost seven months. For in these interviews that were held, in this essential work of the Observer of the Criminal System i the Human Rights, there were reported ill-treatment at the time of arrest, lack of guarantees in the taking of statements in police units or in the courts, difficulties for the medical examinations to have the necessary guarantees to be able to explain the violence that they had exercised, the abuses that had been exercised by members of the police forces, on those persons who had manifested themselves. If all this that we told you in this penultimate plenary before the alarm to Minister Marlaska happens in a situation that you would call normality - that is normality, these police abuses are normality in the Spanish state - what will happen when it is generalized, through this royal decree-law, even if temporarily, the videoconferencing system? This greatly harms the communication between the detained person and his or her lawyer, who is ultimately the only person - the lawyer - to be guaranteed to report such abuses. It also makes direct observation difficult in trials. Many times judges ignore what people say that they have been mistreated and there are many negligent judges in these cases, although there are others who do not, and to be able to observe an assault, a person who has been mistreated at the time of arrest, the videoconferencing system liquidates all those details, all those nuances that can be seen when a person is physically telling you. Not to mention also the case of the observations of forensic doctors. All this done by the videoconferencing system loses quality and goes to the detriment of the people detained. On other issues of the Royal Decree-Law, we could add more objections. The fact that the digital management of files is attempting to introduce rapidly into an Administration that is characterized by the use of mechanisms that are even out of date in many other areas of work - in the justice system the fax continues to be used and is now being asked to make a number of changes to digitize - and the only way, the truth, that this can be achieved is with greater investment in staff in the justice administrations. In short, we will vote that no - this greater investment is necessary - and with regard to the rights of detained and imprisoned persons, I would like to remind you that nine political groups in this House - and I know that this is not the subject of this royal decree, but I would also like to remind you - we call for a series of measures from the governments which have powers in prison institutions so that prisoners do not have to endure this double sentence of being confined in their prisons.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u192	Mr. Botran, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u193	Those signatory groups that are part of governments - I think of United We can, I think of Republican Left and Junts per Catalunya - could already apply it in their respective prisons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u194	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u195	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you said that we did not proceed to play with skirmishes in what has to do with the approval or not of this royal decree, and we agree; in fact, we have not done so with any royal decree and we will not do so with this one. That is to say, we believe that what is being clarified in this Chamber and in these political times in the Spanish State offers little room for the short politics game, but we are going to refer to seven questions or aspects of the actual decree that you present. You tell us about the August clearance - one of the most controversial elements in the public sphere -, and we believe that the August clearance that you propose clashes with the opinion of professionals, officials, lawyers' colleges and judges, who suggest that it will not be effective because it will collide with the vacations of the different operators, which will be the cause of inattentance and therefore of postponements and new remarks. It can also be forced to enjoy the holidays in other months, whether July or September, and thus again extends the problem of incomparencies in those months. We believe that there is a need for indicators to establish this measure objectively in any case, such as when the Administration of Justice will be untied, so allow us to doubt its opportunity as it stands. They also talk about judgments and telematics management, and this is surely the star element of this royal decree - at least again in the public focus - but we believe that digital culture is missing, digital tools are missing, and that is something that, as it could be in other sectors, cannot be easily supplied, because the digital file, the computerization of the justice system, is a frustrated process. Huge economic, technological and organisational resources have been invested, and today it is still a chronic disaster: a system of incompatibility of systems, with some exception; disconnection; inadequate training of officials, professionals and users. Ultimately, and in short, a misconception, something that, as it could not otherwise have been, has surfaced during the pandemic. The voluntary measures now incorporated we do not believe will solve the serious digital delay of the Administration of Justice, and it is true that we do not want to put workers and users at risk with face activation - that is true - but to appeal to the realization of procedural acts, trials, appearances, declarations and/or telematic views without specifying means, without training, without preparation or digital culture, as is done in this decree, we believe that it is more a flight forward than an effective and real solution. We are also talking about the right to the family and we see that the measures incorporated in Articles 3, 4 and 5 referring to this right again benefit some more than others, because the procedure that is imposed seeks ways to normalize post-containment - well, in that we can agree - but it is not proposed how to compensate or rebalance the effort made by the person who has taken custody during these two months, and those left. Effort in economic terms, of course, but also in terms of occupation of upbringing, dedication in care, taking on educational tasks, difficulty of compatibility with telework, etc., which have actually fallen mainly - and that is not a novelty - on women. Almost all shared custody has fallen to the mother. We must look forward and balance the right to the father figure to be and care for sons and daughters, but we must also establish a mechanism to balance the effort and sacrifice accumulated during these two months by the mother. I would also like to point out to you something that has to do with the quotas for the submission of writings. We believe that with what is being moved here restrictions are being imposed - distribution they call it -, by which lawyers will be able to present only a maximum of four writings per day and appointment and one appointment per person per week, and the presentation of new writings to professionals who have had a shift during that week can be blocked. We could also talk about the shift. For what we get - and we ask you to investigate it because I cannot point it out with certainty and I prefer to leave it in a doubt -, the office shift is not enabled in all places and in all ways, thus making it difficult for everyone to have access to justice. I would also like to talk to you about the law on gags, because among the assumptions that are regulated to speed up justice, there are no measures in the administrative order, specifically to appeal against the sanctions that have been imposed in the last months of the health crisis. Let me make a reflection that I have already done on some occasion in this House and that is that something is not right when it is said and repeated and it is reiterated that citizens are giving an exemplary, incredible, almost unanimous example when it comes to adapting and adopting the measures that the Government is establishing and at the same time we are already going for almost a million fines and sanctions. If citizenship is exemplary, someone is exceeding sanctions or, on the contrary, citizenship is not as exemplary; I prefer to believe that it is and that someone is exceeding sanctions. As I say, this law is systematically being used extending the alleged violation of a rule, disobedience to authority, something that different jurists have already denounced. Only in our country, in Euskal Herria, would 27 519 sanctions resulting from the application of the Law on Citizens' Security have already been applied and, however, this royal decree does not accept any measures to facilitate the remedy or review of the administrative litigation of these sanctions, which makes even more evident what we have always denounced, that is, that this law, which has already become a real casket of repressive cutting measures, breaks down with procedural guarantees of defence and establishes the principle of police truthfulness over anyone else, such as that of legal security or effective judicial guardianship. I conclude with one last consideration, which has to do with the prison sphere. We are pleased that they did not accept the proposal of the General Council of the Judiciary to modify the regime of appeal of inmates in accordance with the fifth additional provision of the Organic Law of the Judiciary to reduce it to a single instance. This limitation had an even more damaging impact on the rights of prisoners. We understand that the channel for such a drastic legislative change would be this royal decree, but we note that it has been avoided to include such a restriction of guarantees for prisoners, which, from our point of view, is a hallmark for its promoter, Mr Lesmes. However, we see that an opportunity has been missed to, in the diametrically opposite sense, facilitate the submission of remedies and access to prison surveillance courts at a time when significant restrictions on the rights of prisoners have been introduced. We therefore appeal to you to analyse the writing, the text that we present ten political formations present in this House, to review issues relating to the enforcement of three quarters of the sentence and its possibility of opting for freedom and other issues. We believe that there is an opportunity to do that sort of thing, also in this, but, as I said, without disregarding the steps that are being taken, we see again that there is a lack of shyness in addressing other necessary reforms, so we will express the meaning of our vote, which is nothing other than that of abstention.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u196	Thank you very much, Mr Matute García de Jalón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u197	Thank you very much, President. Firstly, because it cannot be otherwise, we want to join, as the rest of the speakers who have spoken before me, in thanking all those who, through their work, are helping to facilitate the life of all citizens and in solidarity with all those who are suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, the devastating impact on the social, economic and health fabric of the pandemic produced by COVID is well known, and the scope of the public service of justice and the legal professions is no different from this shock, which adds to the already grave situation in which they were in. Thus, to a public service already collapsed is added a new collapse produced by the sudden stop to which it has been subjected in order to stop the spread of the pandemic and thus contribute to its mitigation, stop that - I recall, ladies and gentlemen - occurs by virtue of the decree of alarm that suspends all the ongoing actions through the suspension of the terms and deadlines, except in those actions that are defined as essential, and stop that accompanies a correlative decrease in the face at the judicial headquarters, except for the essential services, having come to affect 95 % of the total of the templates. This aggravated collapse will be compounded, following the lifting of the state of alarm, as we have already been told, by all the litigation arising from the health emergency itself and from the social and economic restraint measures taken to alleviate its effects. This is therefore, ladies and gentlemen, a scenario, as the General Council of the Judiciary has pointed out, exceptional and unprecedented, to which a response must be given from now on, and even more so after the lifting of the state of alarm in order to reactivate the service of justice, prevent its collapse and guarantee the safety in the individual and collective health of officials and staff, professionals and the general public, a response especially necessary when the proper functioning of the Administration of Justice is a determining factor for social and economic recovery, as the Minister has already pointed out to us, an essential factor for the protection of the most vulnerable groups and because it contributes to social peace through effective judicial protection. In this context, Decree-Law 16/2020, on which we are now discussing, is intended to be, as we are told, the first short-term step, having a limited temporary effect, in order to deal with the exceptional situation of justice, to which we were told, a series of reactivation plans in the jurisdictions that are presumed to be most affected and, finally, a future law with structural measures to speed up and modernise the public service of justice, which we trust will soon be referred as a draft law with all the reports and procedures completed and not as a decree-law, which we would not validate, nor as a proposal for a law, which we would not accept. This Decree-Law 16/2020 is presented to us as well as a first step in preparing for the reactivation of justice and simultaneously allowing a progressive increase in the activity in conditions of health security for all interveners. It contains a summary of organizational, technological and procedural measures, some more relevant than others, others with less consensus and others more virtual than effective, as has already been pointed out here. Among the latter, which are important, but - let me say, Minister - a little toast to the sun, are mainly technological measures, digital transformation, teleworking, remote access to the procedural management system or to recording in the room, electronic communications systems, telematics views, but which require investment in tools, trained personnel, competent bodies, adequate and prepared spaces. In short, a large public investment in a text without economic memory and with limited temporal validity. It is also a toast to the sun to claim that already present future when the law of videoconferencing, which was claimed since 2011 by Law 18/2011, has not yet seen the light. Although Article 19 is clearly on the positive side of these technological aspects. It breaks the taboo that prevents the entire process from being carried out telematically if it is considered appropriate, without prejudice or safe from certain proceedings for serious offences with the presence of a detainee. This is a great advance that does not cease to be for the moment or to a large extent an empty shell. On the other hand, certain organisational and security measures seem to have not had enough trade union debate and could augur problems in their implementation. I am referring to turniness, mobility within the locality, within the jurisdictional order, and to the same individual and collective security measures. It has also surprised us, in a text that rightly advocates agility in proceedings, that the privileged system of the prosecution will be extended once again in terms of the time to be notified. The rest of the operators, you know, minister, that we have or have one day, and the prosecution has been extended again so that they have ten days. We cannot fail to point out in general terms - not in particular for his ministry, but in general terms - the great impact that the declaration of a state of alarm has on the autonomous competition acquis. However, not everything is a toast to the sun in this decree-law; there are important issues. It is important the vacatio legis in the Civil Registry, which, if not approved, would simply involve the closure of the civil records, and is relevant to rethinking an unborn legal model. The rules of the calculation of the suspended deadlines are also important, and so are the COVID courts; the reinforcements; the competitive measures to prevent the liquidation of companies; the aforementioned non-personality; the prioritization of procedures; the handling of incidents in family law; the negotiation with the General Council of the Spanish Lawyer on the scope and conditions of the authorization of part of August, in order to co-honest the reactivation of justice for social and economic recovery and that this implies the least possible damage and impact on these professionals; and other issues that, for the limited time with which I count, I cannot even quote. I'm finishing up, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proper functioning of the public justice service depends on vital projects, economic decisions and, even more so, at times like the present, when society needs security frameworks. Our parliamentary group believes that it is time to seek consensus for the return to normalcy in the administration of justice because this increases the chances of success. Perhaps someone might think that the decree-law is not the best, but we consider that its non-validation is worse. Finally, things can always be done better and worse, and at best it also includes not preventing, where appropriate, improvements or greater consensus. That is why our group will also leave the door open in what it touches us. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u199	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Minister, as always when we lawyers appeal some decision of a judge, I begin by telling you that what comes next I say to you with all due respect, and you know that I have it. First of all, we are faced with the problem of your plan of descalation, on which I thought I heard in your speech that you said that, if we do not validate this royal decree-law, we will not be able to have an orderly descalation of justice. Look, you can't blackmail officials working in the Justice Administration by asking for yes for your royal decree-law. On this subject of the descalation that began yesterday, I recognize the greatest capacity I have seen in a minister in all democracy: you have angered everyone. There has been no one without anger: associations of judges, prosecutors, lawyers of the administration of justice; five of the six associations and trade unions representing civil servants in the service of the public administration; colleges of lawyers, prosecutors and social graduates. No one agrees with your plan to de-escalate. And you say that keeping social distance won't even require the masks. Minister, truly, wholeheartedly, I invite you to step down from your official car, come with me to Castile Square, enter any judicial office and see how you work in the courts, at a very small distance and with many common elements. You say, secondly, that, in fact, we are going to meet with an avalanche of affairs, with a collapse. Minister, before the virus justice was already in collapse, it does not now sell us the royal decree as the one that will solve the collapse in justice. Say we're in a situation of aggravated collapse, that's right. You wanted to issue a royal decree-law; you did not call the opposition to negotiate. I have been negotiating with you these days and there has been no way to get two things for the month of August, and you say that that royal decree-law has negotiated it with consensus? Do not exaggerate; with the consensus of the autonomous communities, without any consensus on the part of the justice professionals, all of them very dissatisfied with their royal decree-law, especially with the authorization of the month of August. Again he blackmails us, it is that in the final provisions of the royal decree-law it turns out that previous royal decree-laws are reformed. Look, issue a new royal decree-law next Tuesday if it doesn't go ahead and, secondly, remember that these royal decree-laws are processed as a bill by the emergency procedure and are in time for amendments. Don't blackmail people again with whom we have to vote in favour of this royal decree-law. You have taken unambitious steps, I tell you with all honesty. With regard to trade measures, it draws attention to the fact that the Socialist Party privatizes auctions resulting from competitions. Do you not know that there are electronic auctions, under the faith of the lawyer of the Administration of Justice, which, for example, in the Region of Murcia reach up to 95% of the auctions that are held? You say that labour measures are put in place, but without reinforcement plans, which is what all judicial associations are asking of you. Several representatives of political groups who are in the antipodes of Citizens have already been told here, the problem of justice is solved with money, and you answer me in the Committee on Justice: I flee from incrementalist positions. No, we need to reorganize justice - of course we do! - but the first thing we need is to invest in justice, and everyone knows that. We have 12 judges per 100 000 inhabitants, when the European average is 20 or 21 judges per 100 000 inhabitants and you keep saying that this is done simply by better organizing justice. Well, it's not like that. I was told by Bildu's representative, with whom, in fact, I took a certain surprise. In the case of the family, we find that, within three months, the family benefits are rebalanced at the lower end, but then, when they are to be rebalanced upwards, there is no longer an urgent procedure. Do you see how your measures are insufficient? Do you see how in all the decree-laws of this government you stay short? If that is why, if it is because you have become short, you have already seen as in this House of Citizens, responsibly, you have voted yes to real decrees you have criticized, because you have become short, for example, in aid to self-employed people, who are, by the way, going to create contests, who are going to turn ERTE into ERE and layoffs and encourage litigation, which seems to be nobody's fault. No, it's the government's fault. But what happens is that - and I do not want to play a game of words, Mr Campo - you have set the field of justice on fire and called on the General Council of the Judiciary to put out the fire. Above you try to wear the medals. With regard to the authorization of the month of August, the General Council of the Spanish Attorney General, when you issued the royal decree-law, said that they were ineffective, counterproductive measures that hurt the right to defence; that they were going to cause the opposite effect, that they were going to collapse justice further. It has already been said here, you will not be able to hold views in August because it will be impossible to bring together in a court of law all the protagonists of justice from one view, which has already forgotten you how a view is made. Secondly, I would also like to say that the Council makes some recommendations. It seems that you too - now with the statements of your fellow government, Pablo churches - must not believe much in the independence of the judiciary because recommendation is recommendation and the judge, independent, will make the decision you want following the recommendation or not. I'll give you an example. This morning a friend of mine from a capital of Spain sent me an order suspending a note. Do you know what the judge was saying? I would say to him: I would agree, because keep in mind that I can point out to you from day 11 to 31 in the morning and in the afternoon. Well, it seems that this judge is not following very much the recommendations of the General Council of the Judiciary. You say lawyers want to work and that's why we have to enable the deadlines. If you want to work, work. I have asked you to volunteer and that the poor lawyer, the individual employeeless professional, who holds a small or medium office and has to take matters personally, have the right to reconcile his family and work life by taking a few days off, because the lawyers do work in August, but he has carried on his back the advertising medal that you are trying to put on a radically ineffective decree. Do you really want us to believe that by enabling twenty days in August you will solve the collapse of justice? But even so it sounds really ridiculous. That's why, Mr. Campo, with all the affection and all the respect, as you've angered everyone...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u200	Mr. Bal, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u201	I'm done, President. As he thinks only of the big offices but has forgotten about the individual professional, the small lawyer, the middle lawyer who shares expenses with his friends from the faculty, let's vote him no. I have already told you what measures I think are insufficient, although they are on the right track. Bring a royal decree that says this and we'll vote for it. But today we have to vote no. This is what Citizens call useful politics, this is what is called extended-handed politics, it is the hand stretched out but demanding responsibility, consensus and not simply unilaterality and improvisation, the purely advertising and ineffective effect that you have achieved in the entire justice sector with your royal decree-law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u202	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u203	Thank you, Madam President. The Royal Decree itself states that the Administration of Justice must prepare for a reactivation of the normal functioning of the courts and tribunals. However, from our point of view, in the area of the administration of justice, the new normality should not be for the courts and tribunals to regain the functioning they had previously, especially if we aspire to a swift and therefore truly just justice. In any case, we agree that it is necessary to recover the lost time, but we believe that the measures taken with that intention are not the most appropriate because, once again, we see that what is really important is the allocation of resources to implement them. There is no budgetary change, no enlargement, no provision for more technical or human material means, and it seems clear that it will soon be useful to extend the timetable or allow part of the month of August without more staff strengthening the existing one. This, in addition to affecting the conciliation of lawyers, lawyers and prosecutors, can also affect the quality of the defence by reducing the time to do so. We believe that the conduct of procedural acts by telematics can seriously affect the right of defence, since, especially in the criminal field, it violates basic principles such as that of proximity or confidentiality between lawyer and client. Let us consider positive - and I conclude - that a priority criterion should be set for the issues that are going to arise from this crisis, especially in the labour or family sphere, but, as a whole, the royal decree seems to us only a patch when what is really needed is a genuine shock plan. These are measures of little impact and are also adopted without dialogue with legal operators. We will therefore abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u204	Thank you, Mr. Rego. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u205	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, we're going to vote on it as a bill. We understand that this project has positive aspects and we understand that initiatives had to be taken from the ministry, we share that. But, at the same time, we understand that there are things that have to be amended, some have already appeared here this afternoon. The first is that we understand that the licensing of several days in August harms many collectives, who will not be able to take vacations, mainly smaller collectives, one-person offices of lawyers, prosecutors or social graduates; unlike, for example, officials and judges, who will be able to take vacation shifts. In addition, we believe that that inadmissible August was taking advantage of the courts to bring up to date many of the outstanding cases, which will be so many these days. We therefore believe that this is an aspect that you should negotiate or consider. Another aspect would be the obligation of the afternoon. We understand that this sometimes marries little by trying to reconcile personal and working life. And we also understand that the royal decree should clearly specify - Mr Bal has said, for example - that we cannot work where preventive measures are not complied with. We've all gone to court - in my town I go to court - and they're on top of each other, there's very little space. Therefore, I believe that the decree should make it clear and specify it. Finally, all judicial bodies are overloaded by this paralysis of the state of alarm. Therefore, the measure of forced mobility from one centre to another would be like undressing one saint to dress another, because everyone is overburdened, and there are other possibilities, as I know less cheap, such as the coverage of positions on secondment, voluntary replacements or the hiring of temporary staff. We therefore insist that the decree has positive aspects, we do not reject it, but we believe that it should be treated as a bill. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, lastly, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol. Mr Alonso-cuevillas I Sayrol: Thank you, Madam President. Minister, they bring us to validation a decree-law that we understand is a toast to the sun. Soon. With regard to telematics trials, one of the organisational measures, a European directive of the late 19th already eliminates the fax of the media between administrations and administrations because it says in text that it is obsolete, and here reference continues to be made to the fax. How are we going to make telematic judgments when our courts continue to notify mostly by fax? Timetables for tomorrow and afternoon. A lot of consensus must not have been there when most unions have sent us emails these past few days to vote against validation. And the star measure, the August habilitation. First it was intended throughout August, then, as judges and other officials could not be left without a vacation and demanded the normal right to have a vacation, because it was made that patch to say: we are going to restrict them from 11 to 31. Great fire among the lawyers, the injured are the liberal professionals: lawyers, prosecutors and social graduates of small and medium offices, the vast majority in Spain; great fire: institutional statements against, strikes announcements, even declared him persona non grata in a bar association. And then the Council comes out and gives these guidelines, which are actually, as has been said, recommendations: it advises that, to the extent possible, no trials should be held in August if they are not urgent. This is what was already provided for in article 183 of the Organic Law on the Judiciary: it can be held whenever urgent action is taken. And, moreover, for more inri, he says: the remarks will be sought to be notified before June 15. But if before June 15th we won't have an agenda. That is an absolutely useless measure, it is not going to have any effectiveness, each judge may point out or stop pointing out when he or she considers it relevant. Very skilfully you have achieved consensus in the statements of the presidents of general councils, not of the general councils, but these measures will not serve anything because the problem is not the trials, we all know that not only will trials be held in August, the problem is that, if the deadlines run, lawyers, professionals, have to be on guard, attentive to the referrals and the time limits of the remedies. He has obtained these positions or statements in interviews, but those who think so believe that for many years they have left the trench, have settled in their armchairs and do not see the reality. I assure you that the vast majority of the profession is radically against these measures. I don't have time. The measures in labour, commercial, family matters, these COVID trials which are not known what they are or what powers they will have or what demarcation they will have - the same experience is the same as that of the ground clause courts - will be an absolute failure. Reforming the justice that is needed requires consensus, and consensus does not mean either you are with me or you are irresponsible; consensus is not presumed, consensus is practiced and when so many people are against it, there will be no consensus. And not only does consensus need to be reached, but, as has also been said, measures, investment are needed. If, for example, he declares preferential judgments, what about all the others? If we are already two or three years late, then we are going to go three or four years late. As far as trade is concerned, they are exempt from the obligation to submit tenders until 1 January, but that will not do any good because the companies, when the embargoes, especially of the Tax and Social Security Agency, begin to fall, will find themselves under the obligation to submit tenders, as they are already presenting themselves, as many commercial judges tell me. And, to finish fixing it, you now approve the consolidated text of the Competition Law and someone thinks that...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u207	Mr. Alonso-Cuevillas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u208	I'm done. It was said that it occurred to someone that it came into force on 1 September; that is, when we are in the midst of competitions, with absolutely collapsed judgments, all try to adapt the numbers of the new precepts, redo the forms, etc. It won't do any good; more collapse. And in the matter of family, a new absolutely oral procedure is invented, but were we not going to telematic trials? Anyone who steps on a court of law knows that the true bottleneck is the agenda of the judicial statements; the completely oral trials are much longer than the trials that come with written answer. So, there, far from expediting, what they do is collapse further. We are going to vote against it because we believe that these measures are a pure political marketing that does not solve anything.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u209	Mr. Alonso-Cuevillas, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u210	And we also do so because with it we defend the interest of the lawyer and the majority of liberal professionals, prosecutors and social graduates, who have asked us to do so. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u211	Thank you very much, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u212	Thank you, President. Good morning. The state of alarm has caused, as I mentioned in his appearance, a centralization of many competencies of the autonomous communities. In the field of justice, the higher courts of justice have been given powers that do not correspond to them and I would like to reiterate that it does not fall within the functions of judges and judges to determine which protective measures are necessary to prevent the spread of the coronavirus: what protective material is needed, how priority is given to material that is unfortunately scarce, which workers must go to the courts and who should stay at home or which services are essential. In these days we have seen how the General Council of the Judiciary tried to influence aspects that are far from their functions as the government of judges and magistrates. But, said this, the first step we should know is what plan the ministry has for descalation, because, no matter how much they say that they have done everything with the collaboration of the autonomous communities, we all know what the model of co-governance is. The main problem we see is that the ministry is subject to the proposals made by the General Council of the Judiciary, and that council adopts the proposals it wants, without taking into account that these proposals are not made by an Administration with executive experience. But, apart from this, which is already serious, it is very important for the ministry to coordinate within the government itself, because it is absolutely necessary to respect the phases of the health authorities, both state and Catalan, because they propose different territorial rhythms of descalation that are not contemplated in the plan of the Ministry of Justice. For us, the royal decree-law is improveable. He lacks many things, many proposals, such as, for example, those that have already been sent to him by our Counsellor Esther Capella. Some of these proposals could have been incorporated into the Royal Decree-Law and we therefore request that it be treated as a bill, in order to be able to work on it and adopt all the initiatives that we believe are necessary to improve the service of the Justice Administration, a community public service. But we also recognize those proposals that are in line with improving the service of the Administration, such as all commercial and labour issues and prioritizing certain issues of family law, despite everything, because prioritizing certain jurisdictions is and must be a priority. However, and I am sorry to be repetitive, it is urgent to respond to the decongestion of judicial matters, which as a result of this economic and social crisis resulting from the COVID will increase, and reverse situations such as those that took place with the ground clauses and that will be reoccurred with the IRPH. We cannot allow this crisis to be paid back by the weakest. We must eradicate this harmful idea of provincializing certain conflict resolutions, as happened with the ground clauses. The Act on the Promotion of Mediation. Mediation is a key and necessary tool for conflict resolution, prior to legal action. We must guarantee once and for all the right to housing to all people. We must avoid evictions and seek social rents for the most vulnerable. And the air transport claims. Here we have a lot of work to do and it is a good example to be able to implement extra-judicial conflict resolution systems. In short, it is essential to adopt all those measures and tools for extrajudicial resolution of conflicts that are mandatory and effective. It is necessary to adopt procedural and public service solutions of the Administration of Justice that seek social cohesion and the protection of the most vulnerable groups and people in the community in a context of humanitarian crisis such as the one we live in. The real decree-law remains short in the will to balance the growing social inequality that will be faced by the social, economic and labour crisis resulting from the COVID, renouncing to impose greater responsibilities and assume extra-judicial and procedural obligations to those who have the most in favor of those who have less. Minister, we have seen the recognition you have made to the Generalitat Judicial Council, work never duly recognized to the good management that you have been carrying out during these recent times. We thank him for that recognition, but we want concrete commitments, such as, for example, that the modification of August's authorization really serves to speed up judicial proceedings, that is to say, to remove paper and that only those urgent hearings are pointed out. It seems that this will be the case and that is why we will support this royal decree-law and we will also use its processing as a bill to fill all these gaps, but all this without forgetting the importance of family and work reconciliation and the right to rest. The holding of procedural acts by telematics is also a good opportunity to advance the implementation of new technologies in the field of the administration of justice, but their effectiveness, as you know, will depend on the budgetary efforts being made. I must recall here that the funding that the PP Government wanted to allocate for the modernization of the Justice Administration was eliminated. I think I remember that it was 1.2 million euros for ICT investment. We also want the commitment of the ministry that we will be paid all the investment made - it has been very much and we have not yet received anything, assuming it all the Government of the Generalitat - as well as that we will be made the transfer of the extraordinary gratification that we owe for the creation of the fourteen new judicial bodies in 2017 and will be financed the free legal assistance, as established in a mandatory way the finalist character of the judicial fees. We trust that the formulation and processing as a draft ordinary law will ensure the maximum efficiency and efficiency of the public service of the Administration of Justice in the post-COVID scenario, beyond the urgent and temporary measures contained in this Royal Decree-Law. We are confident that it will be a determined bet for the decongestion of the courts from an indispensable perspective of social cohesion and protection of the most vulnerable sectors of our society. We are confident that, once the Ministry has resolved the need to give an urgent and peremptory response to the crisis situation, it will engage in a genuine dialogue with the administrations with competence in the field of justice, with legal operators and trade unions, beyond the General Council of the Judiciary. We trust that the judicial system in Catalonia will not interfere with the implementation and implementation of the measures, beyond its functions within the framework of a rule of law and the necessary balance of powers. In difficult times, Minister, responsibility is needed, all responsibility, and Republican Left has very clear meaning of its acronyms. Therefore, we request the processing of this royal decree-law as a bill. You won't have another chance because there is no alternative, Minister. We want clear and determined gestures, but above all we want absolute respect for Catalonia's self-government. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u213	Thank you, Mrs. Telechea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Valentina. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u214	President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my solidarity and affection to all those who have died and to those affected by this health crisis and to their families, and to thank all the working people who care for us in this emergency. I want to start by saying that this decree is obviously not anything. We are certainly trying to adopt urgent measures for a sector of the Administration that is strategic and essential and that carries with it a very important collapse, and that is certainly not the responsibility of this Government. That previous collapse could have done much for the People's Party to correct it in its previous years of government, but this government has found itself in a situation that must now be addressed. We start from a very serious limitation, as has already been pointed out here: there are 12 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, half the European average, which is 23 judges per 100,000 inhabitants. Thus it is very difficult to attend to the tasks of justice. Besides, we have other anomalies. We have a General Council of the Judiciary which has been almost two years out of date and which is impossible to renew because of the inability of this House to reach a consensus. Perhaps the General Council of the Judiciary should help this House reach a consensus by submitting its resignation and forcing us to adopt a new council. In the meantime, what does not seem very welcome is that a council with its mandate expired almost two years ago continues to make appointments that in many cases are for too many years. In other words, the justice situation is not the responsibility of the Minister. The Minister has done what he has done is to try to put in place a shock plan that obviously needs investments, which in turn depend on the approval of the State's general budgets. We call on this House to adopt general state budgets that can really strengthen the justice sector. What is now being attempted is to address the delay caused by the paralysis and the previous collapse and, as the Minister has said, the foreseeable increase in the number of cases which, as a result of this economic and social crisis, will be in the justice system. As it cannot be otherwise, our group is going to give support to this royal decree and at the same time we are going to work to pick up the concerns of the opposition; first, all the concerns that are reasonable and of all sectors - it would be missing more - that have to do with justice. Of course, we have dealt with and listened above all to the complaints of trade unions and collective lawyers who have expressed, for example, their reservations about the authorisation of part of the month of August, which is true that it results in a breakdown. I want, first of all, to come up with a kind of myth that someone has said that during this economic paralysis the legal sector has not worked. That is not correct, the legal sector - we have to admit - has had as much work as usual, perhaps not in the courts, but it has had to deal with many emergency issues, employment regulation files, application and application of measures, etc. And just as the decree provides for respect for the rights of judicial officials, something absolutely normal in democracy and in what the ministry has been very careful to ensure that it is unquestionable respect, we are especially concerned to be able to reconcile the working and family life, for example, of lawyers, and we will do everything possible to make that happen. However, those who want to vote against the decree, who do not cling to these issues that are improveable, because this decree really has another fundamental mission, which is to help revive the economy and help protect employment. It includes measures for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises so that processes that do not meet collective redundancy thresholds can be dealt with much faster before labour jurisdiction. It includes measures to solve the collapse of commercial courts. And, look, the commercial courts have nothing to do with the COVID. In that country, the previous Government allowed for three and four years of company competitions. That is not favouring the economy or employment, as some of the opposition's speeches have shown here. Undoubtedly, the measures contained in the decree will of course help above all that there are companies that have more time to not have to declare the competition and above all will boost and encourage the financing plans of companies to save them from competitive situations and that can be maintained in the economy, and that is a great news. It also protects the health of workers and users of justice. The truth is that we believe that these efforts to improve health, to ensure the proper implementation of risk prevention policies in the courts, to keep the right distances for workers and also for users, are essential policies at this time and the ministry has addressed them in an obvious urgency. With this, this decree, sincerely - and let all the political forces who are thinking of voting against be aware - is essential to safeguard the integrity of the people who come to the courts, however much it contains measures that are perfectable, that of course they are, and we are convinced that the ministry will continue to work constantly to improve it. Our group undertakes, of course, as many of those who have spoken have said, to continue to work on measures necessary to improve justice: the coverage of positions in commissions of service, voluntary replacements and the hiring of temporary staff in the labour market, which is what the unions are asking for and which is absolutely essential, of course. Furthermore, we are convinced that this decree must be implemented and cannot be implemented without the support and consensus of the trade unions. We are sure that this consensus will be a reality soon, so we are committed to working to make this possible and to prevent the collapse of inherited justice from becoming structural. Nothing more. Finally, as in these days, I want to wish the whole of Spain health, a lot of health. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Santiago. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u216	With your will, Madam President. I support the Minister's words of sympathy to the relatives of the deceased, of desire for recovery to those who are sick and of gratitude to those who make possible the continuation of national life, although in very depressed conditions. I regret that this is going to be my only attachment to your words. I have not understood the tone of your intervention, either from the beginning or from the end. The tone of the beginning seemed to me to require a vote in favour, and then, insensitively, it moved to a tone of almost begging on our knees that we would vote in favour. Some spokesman who took the floor said that you were subjecting this House to blackmail. You are a man of law and this cannot be allowed in this rostrum. You don't come here to beg or demand or blackmail, you come here simply to be controlled. This is an act of control of a law-making provision of the Government. The one controlled is your Government, not this House; we are not the subjects of any of those attitudes. It would not have been unnecessary to clarify it, but I feel obliged to do so. The Royal Decree-Law subject to validation contains urgent procedural, organizational and technological measures. I will highlight what we consider unacceptable, because I anticipate that our vote will be negative. There is an almost unanimous reaction of opposition by the right-to-entitlement professionals from 11 to 31 August. The Madrid Bar Association even considers it to be unconstitutional. You say no, that this has a consensus. That is not the case, as I have told you here, and the statement from the Madrid Bar Association states that it has dispensed with the most numerous group of legal professionals, which is that of lawyers. And you tell us here that you speak on behalf of the whole justice sector - without preposition: justice sector -. I don't know what this means, but it gives me the impression that what you wanted to say is not true. The protest has led to a reaction from the General Council of the Judiciary, which says that oral hearings should be limited as much as possible during the month of August. It has also been explained. And there are also protests in the schools concerning the need for a timetable for the gradual resumption of judicial activity, to which the ministry of which you are the holder provides, only relatively, by way of order 394/2020 of 8 May, published the following day in the BOE, approved even before the validation of this royal decree-law. This is a way of acting in the somewhat heterodox regulatory production; I am not saying that it is invalid, but rare. In any case, it is expressive of little respect for this House. It has also been said, inter alia, by the Catalan Bar Council and many bar associations, that before the resumption of this judicial activity, necessary measures of sanitary and sanitary protection must be taken, which is not fully guaranteed. What is the reason for all this, this lack of negotiation with stakeholders? Is it clumsy? Has he fallen once again into totalitarian temptation? I don't know. The institution of negotiation exists in the Constitution: in article 37, for work; in 16.3, for religious confessions; in 51.2, for consumption, etc. It is practiced in all Western States. You here have wanted to ignore such a thing. Under these conditions, are you a minister of a government that tells us and repeats in a machaconous way that wants to agree? But what do you want to settle? You don't want to compromise anything. Of the 182 proposals submitted to the request for authorization to extend the state of alarm, the Government has accepted only four, without material content, of the Basque Nationalist Party. He has rejected all the others, from all the groups, from Bildu to VOX. And now they are calling us to this Commission of reconstruction, which, in these conditions so unkind to the pact, gives me the impression that it is rather a pantomime, in which, surprisingly, it collaborates with this failing Government the People's Party, which, by the way, did not submit any proposal or request for authorization of the extension, and I do not know why; it must be that it seemed all very well to them, despite what they say, but they do not do so. Article 2.1 of this royal decree-law, terrifying article, that of putting to zero the accountant for the procedural deadlines. The technical secretariat and the State Attorney General's Office have been hasty to say that also for the time limits of criminal investigation, thus, we are in a derogatory interpretation - another heterodox way of acting in the production of rules - of article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act. We are in favour of repealing that article, but not in this way. Things are done well and with guarantees from the justiciable and as the law demands and demands. Article 24, that of the famous courts and judicial bodies associated with COVID. But what is this?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That the Minister of Justice says he's going to transform judicial bodies that know exclusively procedures associated with COVID?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You see, Minister, this is contrary to the constitutional prohibition of courts of emergency, Article 117, and it is contrary to the principle of judicial unity and, moreover, it is contrary to the provisions of Article 98.1 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, which states that specialization - not specialization, which would constitute a court of emergency - is the responsibility of the Council. What is this? An invasion of the judiciary? Are we already getting in full on the chavista road? Completely unacceptable. As for the measures - I have fifty-six seconds left - competitions and companies, there are certainly good ones, but they are scarce. I cannot stop - I would have liked to do so if you had given me the three minutes that I see fit under the Rules, but it has not been so - but I can tell you that these shortcomings may have their best expression in that you, inexplicably, promulgate or publish the consolidated text of the Competition Law and, however, being pending the transposition of Directive 1023/2019, which establishes preventive alarm measures, have not even anticipated elements of transposition into this royal decree - which would have been very desirable in general - in the eyes of SMEs. It is very striking the lack of a reconfiguration in the royal decree of out-of-court payment agreements designed for SMEs, very significant; you completely omit it. There are also other shortcomings in the legal regime for refinancing agreements and, in general, for improving the efficiency of competition procedures, particularly in terms of costs, as this European directive warns and includes. As I say, it would have been advisable to take this opportunity. Overall, we cannot adhere to this royal decree-law for the reasons set out above; some of them - as you see - run profiles of unconstitutionality and violation of fundamental rights. I'm done, thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u217	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u218	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, with your coming, my first words would like to be in memoriam of all our compatriots who have died because of COVID-19; we will never forget them, they will always be in our memory and in our heart. I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the health workers who are on the front line, our country's pride and, in general, an enormous appreciation to all the Spaniards for their perseverance and solidarity. Minister, I sincerely thank you for the tone of your presentation and, from the People's Group, we propose that this royal decree be dealt with as a bill, so that there may be proposals to correct this rule which, in the light of the intervention of many political groups, has been warned in this House today. We are - you know - to help the Spaniards and to row together in the fight against this pandemic. Justice, as a pillar of the State, must play a major role in the harsh times ahead, ladies and gentlemen, but this royal decree is born wounded by the lack of consensus with the legal operators. Minister, I am not going to recite the cataract of criticism, because I want to be constructive and, in addition, other speakers have already done so. I am aware that it is sometimes not easy to provide a large majority of support, but we must try and do more in these circumstances, when the Government has been falling into different mistakes successively and in the same way. The Government asks us to support it, but it does not offer dialogue and closes transparency - a serious mistake - and Mr Sánchez has closed the transparency portal. Ladies and gentlemen, concentrations of hundreds of thousands of people across the country were allowed when the government had already been warned of the gravity of the pandemic, and they do not recognize it. The ideology was put ahead of health and then it has been stubborn rather than humble and the errors are still unrecognized by the Government. Moreover, the Government persists in them: false reports continue to be made, tests continue to be lied about, chaos continues with personal protective equipment, and they do not even give the actual data of the deceased. The last thing is that provinces like Granada - my province - are denied the change of phase in the descalade when there are health districts that perfectly comply with what is required and no one in the Government explains why, no one gives explanations to the injustices that are being done, ladies and gentlemen. All these mistakes and mediocrity are a burden on us to move forward, Minister. Do not put weight on oars if it is about rowing all together and moving faster; act at the level of loyalty that the People's Party is offering them from the very first moment. In this royal decree - and you said so - we have had a frank dialogue with you and we agreed on the general lines, but what was finally presented went beyond, and there we cannot agree; we cannot agree on a holistic interpretation of this decree, as we said, with extraordinary loyalty, twenty-four hours before it was approved, in the mouth of our president. And we do not like, ladies and gentlemen, the latest statements of the ministry that if the decree falls into Congress it will be done otherwise. In what way? Nor is the report of the Office of the Attorney General that has been quoted here and says that they are waiting for the repeal of 324 of the Lecrim. The Office of the Prosecutor should not dictate what should be repealed by Congress. There must be respect for the Constitution, respect for the separation of powers and respect for democracy and what is done in Congress, which cannot be closed for as long as some have tried. The state of alarm is protected in Congress, it does not end with it. The state of alarm cannot cause alarm on our freedoms and our rights, and if they go that way they will have us in front of them, Your Honor. As for the return to the courts, Your Honor, it is necessary to return to work, but surely, with equipment of protection and economic endowment that are not contemplated in this decree. Telematic trials are cited here except for serious criminal proceedings. It is logical, since there the principle of immediacy has to play with all its intensity, but the telematic views must have sufficient technical and formative support of all the courts of Spain without exception, because, if not, it goes directly against article 24 of the Constitution. With regard to the Civil Registry, we are in the same line and it is our proposal. Your Honor, there is an important issue, legal certainty - and you mentioned it, Article 9.3 of our Constitution - that is at risk with the measures of your Government. With regard to the same, beware of the matter of the time limits which the Royal Decree contains and the doubts about its constitutionality, because they are included in those of investigation, according to the Prosecutor's Office, and with table rasa. On the other hand, this royal decree touches on a rule adopted here just a few weeks ago, Your Honor, as is Decree 11/2020, still under parliamentary procedure. The cataract of the rules of the last few weeks laid down, removed, changed, annulled and rectified, generate a regulatory puzzle as we have never seen before and which is not exactly in favour of legal certainty. It is his Government's echelons to this principle, and in part it is also the populist grips of a Government which, in the state of alarm, does not hesitate to bring to the limit freedom of expression, to the limit freedom of movement of citizens, to the limit the exercise of democracy or the minimum common sense, making decisions that change at three o'clock without giving any kind of explanation, ladies and gentlemen. They introduce the terms as occupation they are hardly given an opportunity in any order and publish it in the BOE. By the way, they publish the BOE on Sunday afternoons, giving citizens very little certainty, and citizens want to be sure in a government in a crisis like this, but we don't have it, we just have the certainty of their mistakes. Things can be done differently. His ministry cannot be complicit in this way of governing, and his lordship must speak before the statements of the Vice-President of the Churches, in which he attacks justice for the second time with boxes untangled from his seat as Vice-President. Your Honor, it's not normal as long as you want to give it normal. Mr. Iglesias cannot say that justice is corrupt and remains free from blemish and without any contraindication on the part of his ministry. Mr. Churches cannot call the reactionary toned judges and you remain silent. Your Honor, if you do not water the respect that you have grown in your trajectory, this respect will dry up, because respect must also be earned day by day. Those statements are not just freedom of expression, as you have defended here in Congress, no; those statements go beyond this legal good to directly slander our justice as a basic pillar of law, something severely criticized by the Council of Europe and consolidated democracies. Get down from the assault on the heavens and stand beside those who defend freedom, earn the respect of all by defending us all. By the way, Your Honor, your Government does not accompany the fervor of the lace law, the one that Cervantes defined and that has room with the ignorant who boast of sharpness, the one that the Minister of the Interior has used to say in this House that he has been applying a law to which he calls gag. How is it possible that the law itself applies and stays so wide, Your Honor? How is such barbarity possible? You know that when words cease to have meaning, justice begins to be in retreat. I'm closing, Madam President. Some want to go beyond the Constitution by taking advantage of the pain and confusion that we are experiencing in unknown times. Some want to touch our freedoms when they are more necessary than ever, but the Spanish people are a courageous people who do not want any form of guardianship and less one turned into a disguise and an excuse from the government. We do not want them to make excuses for the anchor of ideology in each and every one of the Spaniards, nor do we want them to drag us to places where we do not want to go; we want to live in freedom, more and more in freedom, every day with more freedom and not to back off. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the state is not to control anyone, the state is to protect, and we are all offering our support to the health authorities to control this pandemic, but we will never settle for the purely partisan interests of any governmental ideology, we will only be in the interests of the free and equal Spaniards. I think day by day...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u219	Mr. Rojas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u220	I conclude immediately, Your Honor. Our hand is still stretched out, it is still stretched out, and it is going to remain so, Minister, but to do things right, in a constructive spirit. We are willing to go with you without a doubt, but when the general interest is always the Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u221	Thank you, Mr. Rojas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Socialist Group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u222	Thank you, Madam President. I would like my first words to convey my deepest condolences to the relatives and friends of the deceased in this pandemic, also to wish for a speedy and safe recovery to those who are convalescent, as well as to thank the work of all the professionals who fight this virus in the front line. Minister, thank you for the diligent, sensible and effective work of your ministry, thank you for your detailed intervention and for that necessary royal decree that puts justice at the service of the citizenry. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 1 of the Constitution states that Spain is a social and democratic State governed by law. Thus, the judicial pillar already appears on the frontline of the maximum rule, in the very definition of our State. Article 24.1 provides that every citizen has the right to effective judicial protection, and that is why the Government has always ensured that the right to health and protection against the virus are reconciled with the effective right to effective judicial protection. The Government, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of an unprecedented global pandemic, has launched the largest battery of sanitary and hygienic measures, logistics, social protection and labour and economic guarantees throughout history. That is why we cannot but thank the work of the thousands of public servants who in these eight weeks have supported our State; their effort, self-denial and surrender, especially the health personnel, have been our support as a society. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens place their confidence in our ability to live up to and reach agreements that will benefit them, after demonstrating their exemplary attitude, their civicism and their sacrifice during these eight weeks. That is why we must conduct ourselves through arguments and truth, respect and tolerance, work and agreements. These are the tools needed to respond to citizen confidence. As you know, this pandemic is a disease that plagues our planet, an unprecedented health crisis in the last century. Ladies and gentlemen, one does not choose when a pandemic arrives, nor does one choose when a tsunami or earthquake occurs. One does not choose the place from which he assumes his responsibilities when the crisis strikes us, but one does choose how to get involved and how to act, one can choose between adding his abilities to all capacities or subtracting, and that choice, ladies and gentlemen, puts us before our limits and before our values and our ethics. We are facing a crisis that challenges our foundations and puts us all and all to the test. In the face of a changing present and an uncertain future, and where citizenship, logically, demands security and certainty, the Government has worked tirelessly, opening its hand from the first day to unity in the present and to reconstruction in the future. For this reason, attitudes, words - even some ups and downs - and some decisions outside logic are of concern, unless they respond to wrong party strategies. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, speaking of certainties, one certainty we have is that you are going to to tow the far right still. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, with all due respect, I believed that his political aspiration was more ambitious than that of being the far-rights. I'm not angry, because I don't have prejudices against the teloneros, even sometimes they play better than the main group, but they won't deny me that their interventions here lately only serve to encourage the public waiting for the real actor on the right. Too bad! Ladies and gentlemen, in this post-CODID justice plan, the Royal Decree provides for urgent, temporary and necessary implementation measures aimed at preventing judicial collapse, ensuring greater diligence, ensuring the health of workers and ensuring the protection of the rights of citizens in these times of health crisis. The minister explained it perfectly. This decree, therefore, places people at the centre of the proceedings by giving preferential treatment to cases linked to the period of confinement. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens have needed and need science and medicine. They will now also need justice, and justice is not just an administration or a set of procedures, but it represents the management of daily and urgent problems, of problems that have a face, such as the drama of gender-based violence. It is therefore important that this Royal Decree and its implementation be implemented with all guarantees and security in its rules and procedures, also taking into account the gender perspective, as set out in Law 3/2007 of 22 March 2007 on the Effective Equality of Women and Men. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth being united. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, why are you opposed to validating a decree which you have not beaten and which has been worked and agreed with your advisers? They know that the minister, too, has reached out to them today. What happened? Why do they let themselves be dragged by the current of how much worse? Reality is clumsy. You put your partisan strategies before the general interest. With all due respect, they're wrong and they know it. Let us hope that they will rectify in the future. We are clear on what the position is, but we are not so clear on what alternative they offer. Ladies and gentlemen, the great challenge is not to create problems, but to generate solutions. In this pandemic there are those who, even being able to make mistakes, from the left to the right, are doing everything possible to alleviate the effects of the crisis and defeat the virus. They do so in good faith and under pressure for which no one was warned. Others have been behind an unworthy barrier made up of lies, bubbles, destabilization and sticks on wheels. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, hearing you sometimes remember Machado, what he said about the nine heads that invade Spain. Their interventions here in plenary do not leave them in a very good place when in February they were asking us their questions, unless the COVID grape means Venezuela and we do not know it yet. But you're also very unpatriots. Patriotism, as I said at the previous meeting of the Commission, is not measured by the size of the flag or by the red of the pepper, it is measured by being able to rise to where history has placed us. You act as terraplanists of politics, and here I allow myself to quote Marco Aurelio, when he said that if it's not right, don't do it; if it's not true, don't say it. Ladies and gentlemen - and with this I finish, Madam President - we often believe that in order to win a debate we must accept the playing field that is offered us - a punctuous ground - and there win with the same weapons to our adversary, but it is not so. Democracy is magnified by the word and parliamentarianism is claimed from respect. There are playgrounds that are not to be trampled on in politics, no matter how much they pounce on us. They must be elusive, isolated and rejected. There is, with legitimate controversy and discrepancy, the policy that is worth it. Ladies and gentlemen, as Luther King said, it is always the right time to do the right thing. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] Thank you. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, before the vote, we are going to read out an institutional statement from the Congress of Deputies, agreed by the whole House, on World Fibromyalgia Day and Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. The third secretary shall read out the statement.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u225	On the occasion of the commemoration on 12 May of the World Day of Fibromyalgia and Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, the Congress of Deputies expresses its commitment to this day that is commemorated throughout the world and expresses the need to continue to work for the impulse of research, for training, to promote social awareness so necessary to eliminate the social stigma that, unfortunately, continues to be detected today in the family, social and work environment closest to those affected by these diseases. It is necessary to work to normalize these pathologies. The Congress of Deputies also expresses its appreciation for all those affected who, unfortunately, still face the misunderstanding and scourge of unbelief and discrimination, both motivated by a lack of knowledge of how these chronic diseases affect people. They are diseases of which their etiology is still unknown, which have a high prevalence and which affect, mostly, the female population. This gender bias now causes double discrimination against the affected person: on the one hand, because of suffering her and being a woman, and on the other, in the case of men, to attribute them erroneously and disrespectfully to suffer a disease considered 'of women', for suffering 'a disease of women'. The Congress of Deputies calls on the empathy of people, civil society and public authorities to join this day, to understand the complexity of what lives and suffers more than 3% of the population in Spain and to work effectively, so that next year progress has been made in addressing and investigating these diseases. Congress of Deputies, 13 May 2020. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u226	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u227	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u228	Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 15/2020 of 21 April of supplementary urgent measures to support the economy and employment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 50 plus 299 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 29 plus 172 telematics votes, 201; against, 7 plus 45 telematics votes, 52; abstentions, 14 plus 82 telematics votes, 96.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u229	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 50 plus 299 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 48 plus 293 telematics votes, 341; against, 2 telematics votes; abstentions, 2 plus 4 telematics votes, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u230	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 16/2020, OF 28 APRIL, OF PROCESSAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL MEASURES TO FRONT COVID-19 IN THE FIELD OF THE ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE. [[File number 130/000017]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u231	Royal Decree-Law 16/2020 of 28 April on procedural and organisational measures to deal with COVID-19 in the field of the Administration of Justice. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 50 plus 299 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 25 plus 153 telematics votes, 178; against, 21 plus 140 telematics votes, 161; abstentions, 4 plus 6 telematics votes, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u232	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 50 plus 299 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 49 plus 297 telematics votes, 346; against, 2 telematics votes; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-13-CD200513.u233	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. The meeting rose. It was four and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon.
