ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the item on the debate on the whole of the draft Law on General State Budgets for the year 2021. Mr Echenique Robba has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u2	Thank you, Madam President. You compatriots who are following this plenary from home, to you and to you I want to address myself in the first place. [[Rumors]] The vast majority...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u3	Excuse me, Mr. Echenique, forgive me a second. I beg your silence, please. The plenary has begun.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u4	As I said, the vast majority of people are not heard in the public arena, you are not given the word in the media, you cannot speak from this rostrum; I am very aware of it and every time - I can - I can do it, I recognize this fact. Therefore, every time I prepare a speech, every time I prepare an interview, I remember that you and you don't have that privilege; I remember that every word matters, and I set myself two goals: that whatever I say is useful, that it serves to improve people's lives, and that it is true. Humbly, that's what I always try to do and what I'm going to try to do today. I will try to tell from here, at least, some useful truth, out of responsibility, for giving a little dignity to this rostrum after the barbarities we heard yesterday, and because of useless lies, in fact harmful lies, I think we are well served. The first truth, Minister, is that the attacks of the ultra-right press on you by your accent are disgusting, they are disgusting. [[Applauds]] I have to tell you that I love your accent and I love listening to Andalusian accent in this House; I love listening to Andalusian accent. [[Applauds]] The second truth is that today we are celebrating good news. It is true that the situation is worrying, it is true that the epidemic is going through a very serious time, all this is very true and no one has the power to fix this overnight. But it is also true that today, in this plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, we are celebrating good news; it is true and it is useful to keep it in mind. This epidemic has us so accustomed to the bad news that we have an obligation to recognize and value the good news, that there are also good news, even if only to survive psychologically. Last week, for example, the American people threw into machismo, racism, climate negationism, the most valiant of the White House's far-right; this Monday we received hopeful news of a possible vaccine for the COVID-19, and today we begin the process of budgets that send to the garbage can of history the cruel and failed neoliberal recipe of austerity; three good news in just one week. It is true that this is good news and it is good to recognize it because we already have too many operators interested in denying it. From the far right political and media will tell us - we are told already - that Trump was a great president, that Biden has committed electoral fraud, that the vaccine carries nanorobots controlled by Bill Gates and Soros through the 5G, that neoliberal austerity works very well and that the budgets of the coalition government are going to plunge Spain into a socialcommunist hell. Others, better intended but equally wrong, will try to tell us that they are not good news because they could be better. Let's look at the curious reasoning. Would it be better if instead of Biden it was President Bernie Sanders or Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez? Well, yes. Would it be better if the vaccine arrived early, outside Spanish and the patent was open? Well, too. Could these General State Budgets be better? Of course, I would already like the United Nations to have a hundred Members and many things to be better. Does this mean that throwing Trump, 90% effectiveness of the Pfizer vaccine or budgets that bury austerity are bad news? I'd say no. And you know who understands this very well? People who have real problems getting to the end of the month and need good news here and now. What we are dealing with today is good news, and we must say it loud and clear. It is, first of all, because it involves a 180-degree change in economic logic. To make it clear what I mean: What did neoliberal austerity mean in the last decade? A dogmatism, a superstition, we could say, which maintained that when they come wrong, when there is a crisis, they have to pay it the ones below. How? Applying a series of recipes. One, the state cannot assume debt. Two, the fiscal privileges of big fortunes and big corporations either do not touch or increase. For lack of income, this automatically leads to some or all of the following recipes. Three, malselling public enterprises or, four, raising taxes to the working class to avoid the total debacle of income. Five, and in any case, cut back on health, education, dependence and the whole public, already taking advantage of it to privatize. Six, reduce wages and facilitate dismissal. Seven, the market you do not touch me, that the prices of the masks, the products of the field, the light and the water or the rents fix them, with infinite justice, the spell of the invisible hand. This magical camuse, this economic terraplanism that was defended and still defended by the neoliberal economists of PP, Citizens and VOX, not only caused enormous suffering to millions of families, but also cruelly, it was a failure for the economy, causing us to lose a decade as a country. Well, today we are beginning to process General State Budgets that certify the historic defeat of this failed ideology in Spain, and that is good news. Only a few data support this statement. First of all, these budgets bring exactly the opposite to cuts: the largest spending ceiling in our country's history and the largest annual increase, with a huge difference; a spectacular 53.7% increase, what the spokesman for Citizens, Mr Edmundo Bal, recently called in this same Chamber spending, spending and spending, trying to discredit it as a terrible social-communist practice. Indeed, these budgets bring spending, spending and spending, what people with social sensitivity call public investment, as never before. These budgets bring about a 75% increase in health; more than 50% increase in science and innovation; more than EUR 5 billion in ecological transition, digitalisation or industry drive; almost EUR 18 billion in housing; an increase of EUR 500 million in scholarships; an increase of 46% in dependency; EUR 700 million to rethink the care system; 16-week maternity and paternity leave; EUR 200 million for the corresponding plan; EUR 200 million to expand children's schools; more than EUR 180 million in policies against machista violence; EUR 4 billion to protect employment by ERTE or the Me cuida plan; almost EUR 2000 million in active employment policies; updating pensions and civil servants' salaries; and a 5% increase in Iprem. Historical figures. Secondly, these budgets bring exactly the opposite of the Ordo-liberal grid on the public accounts, 11.3% of GDP in 2020 and 7.7 in 2021, according to this project, almost 20% of GDP in additional debt in two years. Thirdly, these budgets bring exactly the opposite to shield the fiscal privileges of large fortunes and corporations: to collect from above to protect those below, in compliance with article 31 of the Spanish Constitution. Fourthly, a commitment to regulate the price of rents in order to avoid abusive increases. When the invisible hand of the market bitters the working people's lives it is the duty of any decent democracy to take the invisible hand and put on wives. In other words, article 128 of the Spanish Constitution says so. [[Applauds]] By the way, this joint commitment with the budget agreement seeks to bring to other territories what has already been done with Catalan law, which Mr Casado and lawyer Albert Rivera want to bring down for the benefit of the vulture funds. [[Rumors]] In short: historical increase in public spending, very important indebtedness to protect people and the economy, rise in taxes to big fortunes and big corporations and intervention of the real estate market. Be careful, Mrs. Arrimadas, do not end up supporting socialcommunist budgets. Forgive me for the irony, but it's just that the last few weeks have been curious to see. Not only did you say that you had a good eye for budgets that are quite contrary to your ideology, but not only did you say that you were going to support them, although your fundamental goal was to move the United Nations away We can from these accounts, it is that lately you are saying things that blush even more, if I may. These days they have said, for example, that they have stopped the repeal of the labour reform of the PP. Believe me no, believe me no. You haven't stopped anything, Mrs. Arrimadas. I know Minister Yolanda Díaz well and I guarantee that the dismantling of the PP's labour reform will be absolute. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] You have said that you have avoided the rise of VAT to private education and private health. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] It's not like that, Mrs. Arrimadas, it's not like that. You haven't even been sitting at the table where these decisions were made. Before yesterday you accused PP and VOX, in their particular campal battle in the Plaza de Colón, of making - and I quote textually - a useless opposition that shouts a lot and does not get anything, but the truth is that you up to this moment, and beyond the argumentary fake, have also not achieved anything, Mrs. Arrimadas, nothing. Even before yesterday you were rehearsing a strategy of trying to get rid of the VOX bite, even if that meant signing anything the coalition government put in front of you. And, of course, as it is very difficult to explain to your voters that you may be supporting social-communist budgets, you had invented that fake argument that you had achieved a lot of right-wing things. But you can't escape from VOX, Mrs. Arrimadas, I told you two weeks ago; you can't because most of your territorial power depends on the ultra-right and you can't because VOX's speech is the same as yours only that well loaded with cognac and that's why you always look at it from the rearview mirror. The last proof that this is so? Before yesterday you have the fear that perhaps you are getting too close to socialcommunism and decides to give the umpteenth rudder turn, decides to look for an impossible red line as an excuse not to support budgets. Which one do you choose? Precisely the DNA of the Plaza de Colón, the 'a for them', the successful model of linguistic immersion in Catalonia, the Catalan school, the war of languages; the 'a for them', right? It was written that you were going back to Columbus Square, Mrs. Arrimadas, but that you were going to come back so fast and with both feet, I didn't see it coming, I didn't see it coming. Changing the third, leaving the fakes of the Plaza de Colon and returning to the useful truths, it must be recognized that these budgets, being clearly good news, are not the panacea and will not solve all the economic problems arising from the coronavirus. Those of us who have the privilege of being able to speak from this rostrum have an obligation to flee from triumphalism and tell people the truth. The economic crisis is going to be very hard and these budgets are not going to reach. From the United Nations We can recognize the historic turn that is taking place today and we are proud and proud of an agreement that will be useful to millions of people, but we also want to transfer to the citizen the gravity of the situation and our conviction that we must continue to work and that much more needs to be done. We have to stop the evictions and the supply cuts. We can't tell people to wash their hands and take shelter at home while we throw them out of their house and cut off the water. There is a need to improve minimum living income and much. It's unacceptable that he's not getting to people who have to get there. A million things must be done to achieve material equality, real equality between men and women. The sectors most affected by the restrictions of the second wave, such as tourism, culture or hospitality, must be protected, but not just the businesses themselves, as well as the workers. It is necessary to legislate to put an end to the precariousness of 'kellys', cultural workers or waiters, among others. The same with the field sector. Minimum prices must be set to prevent small farmers and livestock farmers from selling at a loss, and the rights of labourers and rural workers must also be protected. In our view, the more than 600,000 people living with us in an irregular administrative situation must be regularized, because it is a human rights issue but it is also a matter of wealth and prosperity for our country. We must finish repealing the labour reform of the PP, as I have already mentioned. It is necessary to devastate the brain in order to put an end to the precariousness and unemployment of young people. The present and the future must be guaranteed and they must be stopped from being stigmatized in the media. I demand it again from the rostrum, I demand it again from this rostrum. We must protect more self-employed people and SMEs, who suffer more than IBEX companies when a crisis comes, and we must complete the tax reform, increasing corporate tax to large corporations, taxing capital returns in a comparable way to labour yields or establishing real taxes on banks and big fortunes. When the European manna stops arriving, Minister, it is vital that Spain has solved its income problem in a structural way. We have to do this and surely we have to do much more. And in view of the way ahead of us to get out of this well and out with a more modern, fairer and better society, we can still see more clearly with which allies we can make that journey and with which it is simply impossible to do so because they want the completely opposite path. We are going to work from sun to sun, with the modest strength of our thirty-five seats, to achieve those goals. But we have one thing clearly: we are not going to be able to do it alone. We need social movements and organised civil society to pressure the Government to move forward on rights. And we also need - now I am addressing the political groups that in one way or another facilitated the investiture - to have a dialogue and work together to reach agreements. We have important political differences with some of you. We do not want Catalonia or Euskadi to leave Spain; we want a solidarity and plurinational republic in which we all fit and of which the people of Catalonia and Euskadi want to be a majority and democratically part. In this we do not agree, but in that anyone, speak the league that speaks and is excited with the symbols with which he is excited, has to have the right to a decent home and to be able to arrive without anguish at the end of the month, in that we do agree, and that is very important. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the investiture groups, let us work together to bring these budgets forward and let us continue working together later. This beautiful and punished country of countries needs it and deserves it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. I in this life have many doubts and a few convictions. There's two of them. The first: journalism is not to say that there is one who says that the earth is flat and that there is another who says that the earth is oval. Journalism is to say that the first lies and tries to figure out why. And the second conviction: that politics is not a market; politics is taking care of reality, though it hurts. Anyone who wants to sell lies that gets into tarotist and not politician, because from magic to toxic there are only three tweets. But what is taking care of reality? To begin with, know and say that today there is very little room for magic. Reality: two out of three evictions in Spain are in Catalonia, 12000 in 2019 alone, 70% of them, by the way, rents. In Catalonia today there are 34% youth unemployment, 100,000 girls and boys who can work do not do so because there is no work. In Catalonia today there are 14% female unemployment, 260,000 women who can work do not do so because there is no work. In Catalonia today there are 4000 SMEs and self-employed workers less than in November 2019. In Catalonia today there are differences in per capita income between huge populations. Do you know how much more you charge a year between Sant Cugat and Badia del Vallès? EUR 35000 per year. In Catalonia today there are huge differences in life expectancy between neighborhoods. Do you know how much more you live between Nou Barris and Sarrià? Ten years, ten years of life apart. In Catalonia today there are huge housing differences. Do you know how many square meters of difference there are between Pedralbes and Barceloneta? 87 - it is good to know for a future confinement -, 87 square meters of difference. In Catalonia today there are one million poor, one million; one in five people in Catalonia now has to choose between eating or putting on a stove; two in four if they are older people. And so, ladies and gentlemen, it could be till tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that our country, Catalonia, is an extraordinary country, with an extraordinary people and culture, but also with enormous numbers of inequality, misery and precariousness. And to say and fight this makes us no less patriots. Republican Left of Catalonia is no less patriotic for saying this. Saying and fighting this doesn't make us less independent. Republican Left is no less independenceist for saying and fighting this. We continue to want and fight for a Catalan republic with the same strength, strength and determination as we have for 90 years. To say and combat this makes us, by this order, more true, makes us more political and, above all, makes us more useful, useful! It is not true that the proposal is incompatible with the protest, it is not true. This is the truth in a world without truth, in which there is very little margin or no margin for magic. With which it has fallen, with which it is falling and with which it will fall it would be terribly irresponsible not to listen, not to speak, not to dialogue, not to negotiate possibilities of improvement and protection of the material conditions of life of the people. And that, of course, concerns above all the general budgets of the State. They have persecuted us, they have slandered us, they have spied on us, they have beaten us and imprisoned us, and here we are. One example, who of all of us has the least incentive to be here, ladies and gentlemen? Who? I tell you, my partner and friend Montse Bassa; the least. [[applause]] Why? Well, because he has his sister, Dolors Bassa, imprisoned unjustly and savagely for three years. What has Montse done since she got here? Politics, politics with zero incentives. What's he got? Armoring linguistic immersion in Catalan school because that's what we do in Esquerra, make things happen. And who says this is absurd, who says this is a waste of time or who says - worse, much worse - that this is a betrayal of the people of Catalonia is because they can afford it, it's because it's been wearing 1000 euros jackets for too long, it's because it's been walking Michael Kors bags on the street for too long, or it's because it's been collecting public salaries for too long. In Esquerra we do not measure patriotism in meters of fabric, have the colors it has; in Esquerra we measure patriotism in meters of hospitals, in meters of schools, in meters of investments and in meters of transport for people. Does this mean that these budgets are the new tables of Moses fallen from heaven and handed over to the government, as they will surely want us to believe from what worlds? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, These budgets continue to finance in a terrible and abusive way an institution as corrupt and as undemocratic as the Royal House, 500000 euros more; these budgets continue to finance in a terrible and abusive way machinery as absurd and as anachronistic as the military, 3090 million euros more in armaments, and these budgets allocate more than 7 million euros to something so opaque called reserved funds, that is, money for people like Lieutenant Colonel Baena and his Torrente operations 6. [[applause]] Does this mean, then, that these budgets are a chain and an anti-Cathalan repressive slab, as we will be sold from another world? Well, neither. These budgets include an unprecedented health investment, €7330 million for health, €3100 more than there is today; these budgets include an unprecedented social investment, €25012 million only to cover unemployment benefits and €6000 only for something called a real green transition plan, 20% more than there is today, and these budgets include a total investment for Catalonia, 48% more than there is today. These budgets objectively represent an unprecedented extraordinary investment, thanks to the Next Generation and the EUR 140000 million committed in Europe. Does this mean, then, that the Republican Left of Catalonia will support them yes or yes? Less yet. Do you know the degree of compliance of the Spanish governments with Catalonia in the state budgets of the last decade? 8.9% of road commitments, 9.9% of port commitments, 5.9% of airport commitments and 14% of infrastructure commitments. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, forgive mistrust, but it is not that we have mania, it is that we have memory. [[Applauds]] What all this complexity and simultaneous truths mean is that Esquerra Republicana today, with its no to the amendments to the whole presented - and some of them we understand perfectly, as the one defended yesterday by the comrade and extraordinary parliamentarian Mireia Vehi - will give unique and exclusively air, opportunity and time to the negotiation. What all this complexity and simultaneous truths mean is that Esquerra will again today put all its negotiating force at the service of the interests of the people of Catalonia, and we will see what happens; we have three weeks. In Esquerra we know that negotiations are sweaty, not tweeted. [[Applauds]] And for those who call this pujolist or fish to the pit, we repeat it again: I do not know that Jordi Pujol was independentist, we do; I do not know that Jordi Pujol was republican, we do; I do not know that Jordi Pujol was leftist, we do, and above all I do not know that we have never invested anyone like the warlord, José María Aznar. Convergence and divergence, yes. And for those who continue to link the word for free to Esquerra: this is Madrid and this is the Congress of Deputies, neither is the Majestic nor is it the Diputación de Barcelona. [[Applauds]] We face the most uncertain time in our history with two serious problems: journalism has no means in a world without truth and the left has no discourse in a world without ideology. To say that you can agree on General State Budgets with Citizens and with Esquerra at the same time is to lie, is simply to lie knowingly. If some general budgets are to put numbers to it, they are to put music to a political project, this government and its related media must stop selling that can be done with Citizens, who governs with Ayuso in Madrid and with VOX in Murcia and Andalusia, rather than with Esquerra Republicana. Enough of ideological terraplanism. If politics did not matter ideology, this would not be called democracy, it would be called technocracy. Some examples. We want to raise taxes on capital income, pay more who earns more; today, in this country, a worker would have to live 121 years to collect the same as a Repsol manager. Is this possible with Citizens, ladies and gentlemen of the government? We want to eliminate or lower VAT on women's hygiene products and diapers. Is this possible with Citizens, ladies and gentlemen of the government? We want to raise taxes to the online game, which is the heroine of 21st century youth. Can this be done with Citizens, ladies and gentlemen of the government? We want more investment for the network of rolling stock in Catalonia, which is a shame. Can this be done with Citizens, ladies and gentlemen of the government? We want the debt committed and accumulated for the management of scholarships in Catalonia, which reaches 19 million euros. Can this be done with Citizens, ladies and gentlemen of the government? We want to activate and provide a fund of more resources to the already recognized immigration fund in a world at war and as unequal as this. Can this be done with Citizens, ladies and gentlemen of the government? We want to limit the rental price. Can this be done with Citizens, ladies and gentlemen of the government? We want to allocate what is spent on kings and what is spent on tanks for people. Can this be done with Citizens? And, above all, we want once and for all to resolve, return a political conflict like that which Spain and Catalonia live without togas, without espionage and without batras. [[Applauds]] Can this be done with Citizens, ladies and gentlemen of the government? We all know here that you will try to pay the lowest price to approve your accounts, and we all know here that Citizens are desperate. Bad mix, it's very bad mix. But Citizens is not that it is incompatible with Esquerra, it is that Citizens is incompatible with the left. Perhaps, and I recognize you, minister, with Esquerra it costs more because we ask for more things for people, not more flags, but more things, but if you really want to save people and not one of the parties in Columbus' photo, it's worth doing with Esquerra. [[Applauds]] Now I'm specifically addressing the compañeros and compañeras of Unidad Podemos. Do you not realize that this operation goes far beyond the budgets?, that if Citizens apparently becomes a democratic right, useful, European, merkelian, can again reach the numbers that I had two years ago - thirty-five Members - and that the PSOE will be able to choose, will it be able to choose? And if the PSOE can choose, who will choose? Mrs. Arrimadas or Mr. Iglesias? Who's Mr. Sanchez going to live with most of the media? The next ones to get out of the equation, if you shut up in front of the operation to save Private Citizens, it's you. Your country's governance is being played out for the next decade. Think about it. I'm done. There is another curve as triggered as that of contagions: that of mistrust. Today there are three mistrusts almost as dangerous as the pandemic. The first, the distrust of people towards politicians; yes, yes, towards us. People no longer know which one of us and which one of us they voted for is competent or not. Danger: short-term and extreme electoralism. Second distrust: from politicians - yes, yes, from us and from us - towards people. Danger: measures perhaps more stringent than necessary, because we do not believe that people, if we recommend and do not prohibit, will listen to us. And third: distrust of politicians with socially shared goals; between the left, for example. Danger: minimal cooperation and maximum partyism. Result: seventy million people have voted for Trump and three and a half for Abascal. I'm done. Either we are able to create systems that not only repair damage in the immediate, but anticipate the future or in the coming will be many more. Ladies and gentlemen: ideology, ideology and ideology. The thing about either the right or the left, whoever says it, has the flag that has - in Catalonia it is also said - is simply a disguise for the right. May not great headlines become, Minister, great disappointments. If you want to do politics and not math, here we are. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u8	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, to all and everyone. Firstly, I would like to tell you that I did not take the floor after Mr Echenique as a government formation, because, of course, the arguments he makes to defend this draft budget are shared, of course, with the Socialist Group and with the whole government. Mr Rufián, first of all, I would like to thank you for the sincerity with which you have come to this rostrum and for your willingness to talk about the budgets and allow them to be dealt with. Above all, I would like to stress that I deduce from your intervention - and I think it is an objective fact - that these budgets are good for Catalonia and are good for Spain. You were talking at the end of your speech - I listened carefully - about ideology, ideology and ideology, and I can share it. I share it. Obviously, the path of a government, a political project, must be crossed by the ideological vectors represented by each political formation. If not, what are we doing here? It is clear that everyone brings their values and principles to public action and political action, but I will also tell you that in the face of a health pandemic situation like we have not experienced in more than a century, with economic consequences that are obvious in terms of job losses, insecurity, survival of our companies, I say, Mr Rufián, that in addition to ideology it will be necessary to provide sufficient resources for governments and people so that people can move this situation in the best possible conditions, think as they think, think as they think, speak as everyone wants to speak. I think it is essential to take this into account, because we are not at any point in politics, Mr Rufián, we are at a moment of great importance. Our generation has been faced with a situation that nobody expected and which, therefore, has required an unprecedented European response at international level. On this occasion I think we can agree that in the reaction to the Europe pandemic was the height of the crisis, at least for now, Mr Rufián. Surely this road is going to be long and we have to keep moving, but at least so far the height of the crisis has been. I find no reason - I was saying yesterday to Mrs Borràs, who seems to me not to be in the Chamber or right now I do not see her - for some strength of this Congress, especially some force that defends Catalonia's interests in particular, not to approve a draft budget that, whatever happens in the elections in Catalonia, they think what people in Catalonia think, allows them to go through a very hard time in which resources are indispensable not only to protect people - you have made mention of it during your intervention and I will do so too - but also to recover the economic potential that Catalonia has, the business potential, the political potential, in short, the engine that Catalonia represents for the dynamism of the Spanish economy and I would say that of the whole European economy; they are essential, let us each think what we think and have each one of the ideology that we have. You don't understand. Those who believe that it is an electoral bazaar do not support budgets that are good for Catalans and Catalans, independentists or not; those who do not understand that at this time politicians are required to park our differences and agree on a basic consensus, as it may be that health is strengthened, as it may be that no one is left without a benefit and has difficulties for their family to survive, I no longer tell you to arrive at the end of the month; those who do not have the collective capacity to put people's interests before any other issue at a time when people's lives are in danger, people are playing it, they are insecure, they are mistrusted and they do not know whether they are going to continue with their job or not; those who are not able from this Congress and from the political forces as a whole to understand the empathy and the moment that citizens are living are wrong, Mr. Rufián. I therefore believe that a responsible appeal must be made. I would like to acknowledge that responsibility, which you have expressed here in the rostrum, to allow these budgets to be dealt with and, of course, not, like all political forces, to place themselves in place so that there can be amendments to improve it. I will also tell you, Mr Rufián - I will try to make this clear - that you have addressed much of your intervention not to this government, but indirectly to Citizens; you and Mr Echenique. [[rumors]] You don't have to be too smart to notice this hue. I want to tell you, Mr Rufián, that it is not now, when a country has to have a high eye and overcome a sort of cross veto that has been installed in Spanish politics in recent months, the moment when it is more important to have with whom than what we vote for. It seems to me that we should get over it. [[Mr. Rufián Romero makes negative signs]] That's what I understand, Mr. Rufián. If I've misunderstood you, you explain it to me, but that's what I've understood. Each one can read his or her speech - which I think has many different messages not only for the government - each one can do whatever reading he or she wants. I understand that you proposed - and I am also aware, because you have said this publicly on different occasions - that for you it is incompatible with the approval of the budget with other political forces present here in the House. I have to respect your position, Mr Rufián, how not; each of us has to respect the position of the other, but I also say to you that I think it is such an extraordinary time of country that I should first put before or ask with whom what I find very difficult to explain to all the citizens. [[Applauds]] And believe me, I understand you, in the terms in which politics has developed in recent times. I understand that there have been no dialectical debates, because perhaps they have gone beyond what is a dialectical debate, but yes different cross-interests in the political environment, interactions between different political forces that have provoked what I consider to be a pandemic - not in an ordinary situation, but in a pandemic - a certain anomaly as to how the processing of projects has to work, the processing of laws. And I'm going to explain myself. Here, yesterday and today, what we are talking about is the draft budgets for Spain and for all the territories that make up Spain. We are not talking about any other issue that has to do with the legitimate aspirations that each group can maintain in relation to the territorial structure of Spain or in relation to any other matter that may be important here in this House. I think it is essential to be able to steer the debates at every moment towards the direction in which the debate has to be guided, but lately we are very amateur, very given, to intertwine all the issues at the end. It happened with the alarm decrees. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen? Perfectly. While we were aware of the need to impose forceful measures to curb the spread of the virus, it is true that there were some demands, some of which were added to the alarm decrees that raised the requirement for certain votes to be made subject to certain issues. I would like to thank you for having transcended and understood that at this time, beyond continuing to defend in every place what everyone thinks, what we are talking about is resources for people; what we are talking about, as you were saying, Mr Rufián, and I share it, is whether, in fact, unemployed people are going to have enhanced protection on account of these budgets; what we are talking about is whether we are really capable of shielding public health so that it not only serves the sick, but that it does so with quality criteria, that it is technologically renewed, that it is able to strengthen primary care and that it is able to acquire the vaccine, which is promising at this time or that it comes, fundamentally - and I hope so too - from the Spanish teams. In short, we are all putting on our side - I hope so - to have the essential limbs to continue in the political project that everyone legitimately endorses through the ballot boxes, Mr Rufián. I think we can share that. You questioned me in the sense that I was clear about the demands that Squerra Republicana de Catalunya had on the budgets, especially with whom you can vote and with whom you can't. I am absolutely aware of this issue - you have been expressing it very intensively in recent weeks - but it is also my obligation to tell you, Mr Rufián, and not only my obligation, but my natural and public vocation, that this moment requires all politicians to transcend ordinary analyses, the situations that arise naturally in politics during the course of the debates, because we are at a time of extraordinary country that requires the participation of all. Mr Rufián, you know that between the various political groups we have very serious discrepancies, in some cases impossible to reconcile; in particular, this Government, in relation to the draft budgets, has very important differences with the approaches of the People's Party or VOX, but I can assure you that if the People's Party had reached out and shown its willingness to agree on the budgets, this minister would have sat down with the People's Party, heard and understood, by that attitude, that it was willing to temporarily set aside the differences. When there is an earthquake, a fire, a catastrophe, a earthquake or a health pandemic, the important thing, the essential thing, the essential thing is to save lives, protect people and protect our productive fabric, and also, Your Honor, that each one legitimately defends the interests that have brought him to this House. [[Applauds]] That is the approach that this Government has always taken and that of the President when he speaks of unity. They're not empty words. Many different projects are being dealt with, and each political group can veto, amend or expose difficulties in being able to finally vote on them. You have commented, for example, on the education law. There will be political groups - it is an example - that do not share the inspiration of the education law and there will be political groups that share it and, therefore, the result of that law will be the result of that dialogue and agreement. What is hard for me to understand, and it has cost me work in recent months, is that we interrelate some laws with others and that, in the end, this affects the draft budgets. It is hard for me to understand that, because this is an important law, but it is not the only law to be dealt with in this House. Therefore, it does not seem fair to me to dwell on this law, whose design, processing and reconciliation of the various interests that occur in this House have a very important complexity, the added weight of resolving issues of other laws that at all have a reflection in the accounts. Education is going to have the same amount of money whether the law of education goes one way or, with respect to some amendment, goes another way. Mr Rufián, I share what you have raised with regard to the importance of these budgets and I also share that we should not tarnish the debate on public accounts with issues that are not what we can discuss in this debate today. I have been thinking all these days about the statements that have been made about who the Government had to choose or about matters that are far from the general interests of the citizens. It seems to me that what people want at the moment is a policy response that will enable them to alleviate the problems they have day by day and I think that people would think that politicians have a high eye if we were to overcome the situations of confrontation, of debates that do not have an answer and that we usually live and transmit with clarity to the country that at the moment we are aware that what we play is to save lives, that what we want is for no one to stay behind and save our productive fabric. Each one will realize it in its autonomous government in one way or another, but it is essential that the resources reach Catalonia, the Canary Islands, Valencia and Andalusia, in short, the whole of Spain. That is the essence of this draft budget. Therefore, Mr Rufián, understanding - I insist - what you proposed and also being aware of what we have told you personally or the members of your group at different meetings we have held, you know that this government is betting in an important way to consolidate the bloc that made possible the investiture of President Sánchez, you know it because we have moved it on all occasions. You know that we have a solid government, a government that knows perfectly well where it is headed and that, of course - like everything else, isn't it? - at a certain point in time, on some matter, we can have discrepancies in this House, but I believe that we substantially agree. I would therefore like to conclude, Mr Rufián, by conveying my thanks to him for his willingness to allow the draft budgets to be processed. The meetings held for the 2019 budget and those held for this budget have allowed the Government to have a very clear idea of the priorities that are set by its political group for these public accounts, which have to do not only with respect to the rules that we have set ourselves; this budget respects the Statute of Autonomy for Catalonia and establishes an investment percentage of around 18% of the total investment, which is Catalonia's participation in Spain's GDP, as it proposes its statute of autonomy. You know that the average investment for Catalonia during the governments of the People's Party has been half - half - of what is proposed in this draft budgets, and I have no doubt that they are not indispensable investments, on the contrary, they are absolutely necessary investments in order to continue to drive economic growth that undoubtedly has one of the most important nodes, one of the most important vectors in this autonomous community. That is why I believe that this budget is perfectly voteable for all of you, ladies and gentlemen, and especially for the Republican Left of Catalonia, for what it contains with regard to Catalonia's uniqueness: investments; recognition of the payment of the judgment as you have won in the courts and that it has your first year after the meetings that have been held quite a few months ago in the Joint Committee; the ability to be able to incorporate some projects that are very important - closeness, the injection to the metropolitan transport of Barcelona; I am not going to degenerate everything because you have done it perfectly - etc. But above all, Mr Rufián, I believe that these budgets can be voted on by the Republican Left of Catalonia because they are progressive budgets, of a marked social nature, which try to make people, especially the most vulnerable, find in the intervention of the state a hope that they can survive, so that they can go through a situation that has become extraordinarily complicated, as you said. It seems to me that these issues are also important in deciding the position and the vote on these budgets. I do not think there is any line, Mr Rufián, any budget line, no revenue line that can really provoke your group's rejection; I think so. It is a budget, in this sense, quite integrative of all the needs that we have ahead and that contributes to the well-being of Spain and the well-being of Catalonia, which walks on the right path with regard to the values on the left that inspire this draft budgets. In that regard, I have no doubt that it is a good project and that it can be improved with the amendments that you are putting forward in the course of the amendments, but I also say to you, and I conclude with that, Mr Rufián, that in agreement with what you have moved on, I would also like to insist that we are at a time of extraordinary country that requires an unprecedented response, probably a response that will not be repeated in the future, but now, at this time, the citizens of Catalonia and this country are demanding that we isolate from the rest this draft budget which provides greater resources so that people can be better, that we can increase well-being or that we can protect the whole of our productive fabric; I believe that people are asking us to take forward this draft budget and that we continue to discuss what we do not agree on, that we use the word, that we use dialogue, that we use consensus and that we use agreement. That is what I believe is being asked of us today and what this Government is trying to push, despite the well-known difficulties we have on the way. I wish, Mr. Rufián, we could make it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Rufián, would you like to take the floor? [[Mr. Rufián Romero: Consent]] He's got a three-minute replica shift. I have the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u10	Thank you. Three minutes. I wanted to say something first. In front of the cave, in front of the cavemen, in front of their lackeys, minister, live the Andalusian accent. Long live. [[Applauds]] Now comes the stick because, minister, is that you have not understood anything; I insist, you have not understood anything. But I'm going to take your simile, I'm going to use it - I think parliamentarianism goes from this -; I've tried to take notes of what you said. Let us imagine that this is an American movie of catastrophes, in which the American president always comes out - he is always president, she is never president - and takes a plane and fights the aliens, or let us imagine that an earthquake has happened, as you have said. I believe that, even in those circumstances, not wanting the right is not a veto, it is self-protection. What is also curious is that Esquerra, as a progressive party that is, says: No, not with the right. And it's a veto. But Citizens say: No, not with separatists and florets. And it's state responsibility. I'm not saying it for you, I'm saying it for the likes of you. [[Applauds]] But, and I use his analogy, in an earthquake, in a catastrophe, would it be useful to raise taxes to capital income? I think so, that those who have the most pay a little more. In the face of an earthquake, I mean. Citizens are going to allow it? It's just that even if he was nine on the Richter scale, the Citizens earthquake won't allow him to do that. Eliminate and lower VAT on women's hygiene products and diapers? Do you think the lobbies of those companies will eventually allow you to do so? I don't think so. To raise taxes - in an earthquake, I insist - to online games? Because in the end they are the drug of the 21st century for boys and girls. How long will it take the lobbies of the online game to call Citizens and say: Quiet? Perhaps it is easier with us: investments, scholarships, returning a political conflict to politics. I repeat, not to want the right - and we do not want it in any equation because we have the mania of being left-wing - is not veto, it is self-protection. I'll give you another example. According to the Citizens' theory that the Spanish is threatened and persecuted in Catalonia, I here would have to speak with a Google translate, because I don't know Spanish, because I am of the generation to which, according to them, they have not let her speak Spanish. That's the people you want to deal with. [[Applauds]] I'm done. Vazquez Montalbán said that we are not only lost, but that we are surrounded. I think, if you're surrounded, there's nothing worse than not knowing who's around you. Ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, you - I say this with all respect and affection - are in the forefront of coalition government, we are in the fifth. Don't ever swallow with what they tell you who's on your right. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u11	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe, Mr. Rufián, that you have understood me perfectly, and I understand you. This is what parliamentary debate sometimes has when it is a debate that pretends to be honest or, at least, pretends to be honest. I am not telling you to give in to issues that we understand from the left that are nuclear and that are essential to be able to carry out our political project. I have not told you that, I have very clear how I order priority in saving when dealing with a catastrophe. I'm very clear about that. I think you guys are, too. We are very clear where we have to go, when we have to go and in what way as a matter of priority. I am not talking about that, Mr Rufián, I am talking about the objective project that we are addressing is a project that is probably not the optimal for each of us, at least not for my political formation; even if the Government brings it in, it has had to give in throughout its process on certain issues so that it is a project that allows integration. Because that is what it is about, when you want to win a majority over a political project you have to win over that integration and you have to compose within the draft budget that possibility of integration. But what I do say to you, Mr Rufián, is that I do not think that you can make the decision for another political formation to support this draft budget or not. What I am telling you is that you cannot make the decision about another political formation to support or not a draft budget, because the reasons for having a political formation to feel identified or to feel that it is good for public accounts to thrive are for each political formation. Therefore, I do not tell you that we have to give in to issues that are important in order to achieve a unity of action of the Congress of Deputies. I'm not telling you that. I'm telling you that what's important is what and that we each have to position ourselves on what we're approving and not so much who we're approving it with. Yesterday I was telling the People's Party and Mr. Married. Mr. Casado here made an evocation of the memory of Passionary's embrace on the day of Mr. VOX's motion of censure. That day he brought the literary quote and at the time, when he turned around, he forgot the literary quote and continued to criticize the fact that this draft budget would either support him or give a good name to political formations that are in the antipodes of this Government. You can't say one thing and the other. We cannot evoke reconciliation, the constitutional pact, the embrace between the different, the different; we cannot evoke that and then criticize the draft budgets for which it will vote even if it is in the antipodes of this Government's thinking. You can't do both at the same time, it's impossible. That's what I meant, Mr. Rufián. That is why I believe that the time of the country demands that certain elevation, which does not mean giving up what everyone thinks. Of course not, how will it mean renunciation? Everyone will continue to defend this in the environments that have to defend it, but what good, Mr Rufián, if we were able to isolate the Catalan elections in the sense that all political forces understood that this draft budget provides more resources to Catalonia and that the vote of the political groups on this draft budget will not be penalised in one sense or another in the Catalan elections. What a joy we could achieve that agreement, that great agreement between the political groups, especially those representing the interests of Catalonia and the national groups that we also have in Catalonia! I think it would really be a lesson for all the citizens: the important thing of the day to day of their needs we preserve it, and now let's discuss, let's discuss the structure of Catalonia, let's discuss the lace of Catalonia in Spain, let's discuss the language of the vehicle and let's discuss everything we have to discuss, but let's preserve something that is very important. That is what I meant, and that is the appeal I make, Mr Rufián, which I would like. It may seem naive, but it is what I would like; let us preserve these public accounts from the necessary debate that has to take place in elections that are important for Catalonia, but let us not deny Catalans, Catalans and the rest of Spanish, independent or non-independent, essential resources in order to arrive. That is why I have thanked you for your willingness to negotiate these budgets, and that is why I make a general appeal that the budgets can continue their course and that we can continue to talk about everything we need to talk about. It is a long legislature and this government is going to dialogue until exhaustion. I know that your political formation too. I'm sure on that path, Mr. Rufián, we'll be able to have rendezvous points. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u13	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u14	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to start by reminding again of the nearly 70,000 people who lost their lives in this crisis, just yesterday almost 350 people, were 349, and it draws my attention because it is exactly the number of Members of this House. Let's imagine these seats full of dead people in one day. The previous day, 411 people died. Right now there will be people who are getting the news that their family member has passed away, receiving the news that they can't go see their family members at the residence or receiving the news that containment measures are being extended and they won't be able to see their family members or look at the current account and see that they don't have money to fix the washing machine or buy glasses from their child. The health and economic distress that many families are experiencing, honestly, I don't think we are able to move it here. I think that many people do not see that anguish reflected in the Congress of Deputies and I do not blame them, I understand them and I just want, in the part that touches us, to apologize. We, from the beginning of the pandemic, have been very aware that this could not become a bubble alien to the problems of the citizens and that is why we reached out from the very first moment, from before the state of alarm was decreed - we also asked that this state of alarm be decreed at once - we were the first to reach out to the Government to agree on national emergency budgets. Why? Because we already knew for the month of March that this was going to be devastating, that these budgets were going to be very important and that we needed everyone to be hoisting our shoulders to save lives and jobs. We have done the same here in Congress, in the opposition, that we are doing in the governments in which we are: we are demanding responsibility from the opposition in our governments and we are responsible in the opposition in Congress. Not all parties are equal, not all parties are acting the same way. That of saying that all politicians are equal benefits - I insist - either bipartisanism to continue doing the same for forty years or populism to one day close us the Congress of Deputies and, altogether, nothing happens because the parties are all equal, right? No, no, We believe that things can be done differently and with regard to the general budgets, we had two options. We could do the PP thing or the VOX thing, which is to present the eighth amendment to the whole that is going to fall here today, without getting anything at all, or sit down and talk to the government to, in exchange for a series of orange lines, not present the eighth amendment to the whole and that the Spaniards saw that sitting down can get things. I'm going to do a preliminary reflection that I want to share. Yesterday - if I may - watching the show of debate between the government and the main opposition party, I thought: I have been watching this film for forty years. Why has the PP tabled a full amendment to this year's draft budgets? Because it governs the PSOE. Why has the PSOE always tabled a full amendment to the draft budgets of the PP? Because they're presented by the PP. I told my team yesterday to check whether, some time, one year, the PP had not submitted a full amendment to the budgets of the PSOE or the PSOE had not submitted a full amendment to the budgets of the PP. Surprise, surprise. They've always introduced her. Never, never, have either of us presented a project that can be worked on and negotiated in forty years? Have you never sat down to negotiate general state budgets so that you don't have to sell us by four separatist votes in Congress? [[Applauds]] Lessons of no responsibility, speeches can be saved. It is a theatre represented for forty years, in which sometimes it is up to some to play a role and sometimes it is up to others to play the role. Madam Minister, you said yesterday that at a time like this you must be with your hand stretched out, without a prioriism, sitting down to negotiate. That reflection of responsibility and that appeal to responsibility I make to you, because do you know what happened while you were here saying that yesterday? That his colleagues presented an amendment to the entire budget of the Junta de Andalucía, where he governs Citizens. And you know what I'm afraid of? They are going to submit amendments to the whole of the autonomous communities where we are ruling. Therefore, that appeal to responsibility I make to you, to see if you take this seriously. And why are we in a bipolar Spain or a trench Spain? Because the two main parties have been digging a trench for forty years. So it happens, that a party that sits to negotiate with both, as do European liberals, who negotiate with conservatives and social democrats, and everyone: Oh, what is this? It's a UFO. No, it's political and not bipartisan politics, which is what you've been used to for forty years. [[Applauds]] What have we done not to table an amendment in its entirety? Present orange lines to the government and not focus on Twitter, screaming a lot or calling for demonstrations so people will play the horn for the Castellana. No, we've done a discreet, little ant job, presenting to the government some orange lines and telling him that, if he wants us to be in the budget negotiation, these crazy things can't be in the project. It's a pity Mr. Echenique isn't here - I don't know if he didn't want to hear our speech - because I've seen him a little upset. He has devoted half of his speech to speaking of Citizens and said that we have achieved nothing. Well, for not getting anything, that Echenique has devoted half of her speech to talking about us is a little disproportionate, isn't it? [[Applauds]] I get it. For Mr Echenique it does not have to be a dish of good taste to realize that they have not seen him come. I get it. But, look, let's say things that the government has announced, things that it has taken on its electoral agenda, or things that have given rise to the fact that they were going to do and that are not finally in the draft budgets, which are orange lines. For example, this government wanted to tax 21% of VAT on concerted education, special education and health care that was not exclusively public. Why? Not just for a collection effort, but because this Government wants to put an end to concerted education and special education. Do you imagine what it means for a family to bring their children to a concerted and special education that will engrave everything with 21% VAT? We're talking about a cashier. For that is not in the draft budgets; that is an orange line; that is to make policy useful to citizens. Second, about healing. They said: Of course, VAT is going to go up to health, but only to private health. Do you know what that means? In other words, what is not covered by public health would have to be taxed at 21 %. That's the physiotherapist, that's our kids' dentist. What a barbarity! Well, yes, we've also slowed down like an orange line something that, I didn't think, they said they wanted to do. Look, another thing that has hurt Podemos - and I understand it - is that, of course, they wanted to raise 15% of corporate tax. It is not in the draft budgets, among other things, because it was an orange line. And I agree with the minister in what she said yesterday: you have to close those holes through which you often escape the payment of taxes, especially from large companies. That's what we've been defending from the very beginning. There, yes. But raise the tax to all companies and make us less competitive, that's not it. We're on. The IRPF, a flag of Podemos: No, they will pay only the rich! But for Podemos the rich are the ones who earn 50,000 or 60,000 euros. That is, a family that enters 50,000 or 60,000 euros is already rich; they wanted to raise the IRPF. No, now that amount is much further away from these figures. Well, these are commitments, orange lines. Why have we not tabled an amendment in its entirety? Because I prefer to tell the families that VAT is not going to go up to the concertee, than to tell them that I have tabled the eighth amendment to the whole that is going to fall today in the Congress of Deputies. Others scream a lot, but they get nothing. And I tell you, Minister, these aren't the budgets we like. It is not a government that we like; it is not the budgets that we like or will be, but I prefer to participate and improve them in what can be closed down in a band, which, by the way, is what you do in the autonomous communities where you do not govern, I repeat. But, as you know, this has been a compromise not to present an amendment as a whole, it does not mean to vote in favour of the budgets, but we simply let them be dealt with. These budgets need more orange lines in order to vote in favour. Why? Because these budgets are far from what the Spaniards need. I will give you a preliminary reflection; I understand the difficulty of the moment; I understand the difficulty of the moment in making budgets that please everyone at a time like this. And you know why I get it? Because we also govern; we also govern in important autonomous communities and it is difficult at a time like this, of sudden fall in income and increase in social needs, to make good budgets. Therefore, we will never ask you impossible, but we will ask you for moderation, seriousness and not give in to the blackmails of separatism. I think there are most of the Spaniards there; not in the maximalisms, not in the screams, which do not achieve anything, but in the common sense. What are we going to ask you to support those budgets? Look, I don't know when the vaccine will arrive or when we'll return to normal; I hope it's in the second quarter of next year, but even considering this, do you know the months that are left for SMEs, self-employed people and workers in this country to endure? What do we ask of him? Let them do the same as they have done in Europe; we ask the European model of rescue for SMEs, self-employed people and Spanish families. And they'll tell me, it's a lot of money! Yes, but more money is going to be if all these people get out of the labour market, get out of the productive economy and need government help. Hence, from here to normal you have to endure. And, really, I come from a family of self-employed people; and the self-employed are not Superman. I know that the government thinks they complain a lot but they endure; that no, that I tell you, no, that they can't take it anymore; they've been holding it since March and they can't take it anymore. Do the same thing Merkel has done: help. Deeply lost? No, I call them earned because we will be winning in the future, and paying them up to 75% of the income they had last year is not crazy, they are doing it in other countries. The tourism sector. We have one of the best tourism sectors in the world - despite what the Minister of Consumer Affairs has to say, let's face it! - but they have to endure. When the flight goes up you will overcome this situation, but you have to help them endure. There is no response in these budgets to withstand the economy until it returns to normality. Therefore, if that is not going to be very difficult for us to give the okay to these budgets. Another issue, families. There is a very serious problem that you have not taken care of - among many others -: what happens to those families where both parents have to work outside the home because they cannot telework and their children have to be at home because they cannot be in schools. How do you tell those families to reconcile? Those who can telework can be organized with difficulties, but those who cannot telework and who have no help? Will you have to give them a solution, or are you telling them that until next year you will be with the children at home? What's going on? That women usually stop working because between what they charge, what costs them transportation and that they can't stay with the child, for they say: look, I quit work and stay at home with the children. Therefore, the fact that a Government that is said to be progressive has done nothing for this situation is a real shame. And I would tell you many more things, I don't have time to review them today, but there are many economic measures, such as extending ERTs, extending ICO credits, and many others that we will pass on to the self-employed. Truly, it is said by a person who has a family with many independents; they are not believed to be Superman because they are not. And, by the way, don't forget about the self-governing mutualists, because they never take them into account; they never take them into account. We will pass on many proposals to you in this regard. But there is another issue that concerns us. I have to say here something that probably has not been said by any other spokesman: it is not so important that we put in this year's budgets - that we understand that they will have some short-term items to put up with the economy - as the reforms that we are sending to Europe and that we will do in the coming years to make these expenditures sustainable. Where are the reforms? What reforms are they going to send to Europe? Where is the reform to improve the labour market we have proposed to you? Where are the reforms to improve the quality of education really, not the Celaá law to charge the Spanish, as these gentlemen already want by law? Because we already know the Catalan parents that we cannot school our children in Catalonia in Catalan and Spanish. Where is the reform of the public administration so that it ceases to be so bureaucratic, so that it ceases to have so many duplications, so that it ceases to have so many chiringuitos and so many plugs? Where is the reform in the industrial sector so that we are leading in so many things? Where are the reforms, Mrs. Montero? And look that we are to square the accounts - we like to square the accounts -, but this year you will not be able to square the accounts, and nothing happens if it is short-term for the pandemic, to help people to endure, but you have to ensure the sustainability in the future of pensions, of public services. Where are the reforms they send to Europe? We are constantly talking to our European partners, and you also know that the Spanish liberals have been a key part in the design of this aid mechanism, and I am not saying this but that very relevant people from the European institutions have said this, but we must condition the aid. Where are the reforms? If there are no reforms, how are you going to sustain in time that expenditure that has to be included in the budgets this year? I am concerned because we are talking about the future of our children, and it is true, it is not a normal circumstance, it is exceptional circumstances and therefore these budgets can be exceptional. They are not asking us in Europe to square now, they are asking us to ensure that this is sustainable, and you are doing nothing. In forty years nothing has been reformed, I know, but now we do not know where the reforms that you are going to send to Europe are. And, look, a very important thing, we've been seeing how you don't agree for forty years because you've never sat down or negotiated a State General Budgets, in the end you always come to the nationalist parties. Look, the other day, with the amendment of the Spanish separatists I felt once again that feeling that we have had many Catalans, and that is that they have sold us again for a handful of votes in Congress, again. Because if I bring you here the subject of the Celaá law and the language it is not because we have put it as a condition to approve budgets, it is because its partners have put it as a condition to support budgets. [[Applauds]] Why did you do all this fast-tracking of the Celaá law by humiliating the schools and representatives of the concerted and special schools, who have not left or come here to attend? Why? Because those gentlemen there have forced them to deal with it quickly so that it can be approved earlier in the budgets. So don't tell me that I'm talking about things that have nothing to do with budgets, no, tell those who put that requirement for budgets. You know us, you have negotiated budgets with us, you have been a counselor, and you know that we are serious people, we are reliable people and we are the antithesis of concessions to separatism and we are the antithesis because to choose partners in these budgets you will have to choose. I have been saying the same to Mr Sánchez for six months in public, in private, on television, to you; now it is time for the truth and you are going to have to choose, but not just to choose between two parties, you have to choose between two ways: the way of Citizens, which speaks of things to eat, of the autonomous, of all, which speaks of businesses, of families, of conciliation, which demands good things for the citizens as a whole; or the way of separatism and of Bildu, which they want, of course, among other things, to humiliate all the families that we want our children to learn also in Castilian. You have to choose because, in addition, in the economic sphere already what I have heard with the Republican Left of Catalonia and Bildu; more radicalism. We have managed to curb some of the radical things about Podemos in the budgets, we cannot get Podemos out of the government, but we have taken a few proposals from Podemos out of the budgets. But, of course, when you choose partners, you will have to choose between the economic moderation of Citizens and the equality of all the Spaniards who represent my party or the economic radicality and the nationalist cacicadas of Esquerra and Bildu. You have to choose, Mr. Sanchez will have to choose. I do not mind to coincide in a vote with other parties; today the PP will coincide with the CUP in an amendment to the whole, and I would not think of the foolishness of saying that as they coincide in a vote it is that they already think the same, no. The other day we were voting for the state of alarm and nothing happened, but to be partners in a State General Budgets the time of truth comes for them and they will have to choose. You know us and you know we're serious people negotiating budgets and we're going to keep being until the end. Here they have a hand stretched out by Citizens until the last moment, here there is a moderate hand in economics and firm in the defense of equality; if they do not take this hand and take that of Bildu and Esquerra, they will never be able to say that they had no other option or that they have been forced by an irresponsible opposition that does not want to sit down to negotiate. Until the last minute we'll be there. I ask you, Minister, to listen, and to listen to the moderate voices of your Government, who prefer a moderate pact with Citizens; to listen to the moderate voices of the PSOE, who prefer a pact with Citizens; to listen to the majority of socialist voters, who want a pact with Citizens and not Bildu. It is not necessary to endure these humiliations of Otegi, when yesterday he said that they decide the future of Spain; it is not necessary for Mr Sánchez to accept that humiliation of Churches saying: Here I am and I stand before the way of the Socialist Party. That's not necessary.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u15	Mrs. Arrimadas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u16	I'm done, Madam President. Here they have a real hand; if they don't take it because they take the one from Bildu and Esquerra, they will never be able to say again that they had no other choice. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Arrimadas, first of all, I would like to thank you for the responsibility of your political group, understanding the exceptional moment we are experiencing, to allow the draft budgets to be processed, but also, if I may, I would like to make a small confession to you now that no one is listening to us. [[Laughter]] The other day I read that today, it is true, one year is being celebrated, after the elections on 10 November, since the then leader of the ranks of Citizens, Mr Rivera, abandoned his political formation - I do not know if he abandoned it or resigned from his responsibility - by believing that he had made a mistake in the strategy of these general elections. That was Mr. Rivera's explanation. And I thought, Mrs Arrimadas, that it is true that you inherited the situation and took a step forward at a complicated time in your political formation. I want to recognize that courage that you had, besides at a time like the one you lived - it is known to all because it is something that cannot be disguised - a particularly important personal experience, a unique experience in women with their motherhood. I wanted to move you that it seems to me that this act of bravery - for me at least - took on special protagonistism because there was a woman who starred him. It seems to me that it is very important to take that into account. Since then, Mrs Arrimadas, I believe you have tried - and in recent times it has been a more obvious thing - to find a very coveted political space in public life: the centerright space, which is an important space for what implies influence in public life. We have some references in this Congress that are extraordinarily long-lasting in time regarding this exercise in the centre-right space, beyond the fact that groups that are nationalist or not nationalist are protagonists. We are talking about that space that allows us to reach agreements depending on the circumstances, depending on the concrete proposal, towards one sense or another. There lies the greatness of that space. You were talking about bipartisanism and that this Government or this political group, the PSOE, and the Group of the People's Party have tabled amendments to each other throughout our history, and that is no more or less, Your Honor, because we represent a different model of government. The right has its model of society; it has, therefore, all the components - that is not an abstract- that push, that orient, that walk towards that model of society. The Socialist Party - I imagine you were referring to him, not the United We can - has another model of society that is antagonistic to that of the People's Party. Has that prevented both political forces in history from agreeing on fundamental consensus? No, sometimes with more difficulty, sometimes with less difficulty, but it has not prevented us from agreeing on such important issues as the fight against terrorism, for example, which was very important to defeat ETA by the force of democracy, or to reach important consensus when there have been certain moments in our history that have put us in a particularly complicated situation - including some attacks - to get out of it. I do not think it is reprehensible that the People's Party and the Socialist Party have that vision of society that is presented to the citizens, that the citizens decide and, therefore, it seems to me logical that we each defend our positions. It seems to me more logical that the People's Party should present an amendment to the whole at an ordinary time than the fact that it presents it to any other political force. It is true that we are not at an ordinary moment, we are at an extraordinary moment, and we cannot compare the moment of a pandemic with all that is the parliamentary dynamic or the dynamic of agreement that has been starred in the past. It has nothing to do with that, Mrs. Arrimadas. My appeal here today was precisely because it has nothing to do with it. In a national emergency such as the one in our country, I do blame the People's Party for submitting an amendment to the whole. I blame him in a situation of national emergency, I do not blame him for presenting an amendment to the whole in a situation of regular budget, of ordinary course, because they have the right to present their model of society, which is not that of the Socialist Party. We are now talking about a moment of pandemic, and at that time of pandemic it seems to me very important that we be able to overcome the situation of day to day, of logical dialectics, and try to reach consensus that it would be impossible to think at any other time, even at any other time would not be so necessary. But appealing to that courage, Mrs Arrimadas - I recognize it because I don't hurt clothes, it seems to me that these things are also important in this House -, I also found courageous the orientation you were giving and you are giving your political group in view of the conquest of that space that exists. The People's Party has abandoned that space, they are much more concerned to see how they are measuring with VOX and looking through the rear-view mirror, they are much more afraid of what the bleeding of votes on VOX means than what it means about a space, I insist, much desired in Spanish politics, as is the center-right space. Here, in this Congress of Deputies, I don't know if people learn, I don't know. I learn, I may more or less like the speeches made by your ladies and gentlemen, but I try to listen and, as far as I can, I try to learn. I believe that we must learn from some of the experiences that have been successful, from the hinge of success in this Congress of Deputies, and from a centre-right party, the PNV, for example, beyond its nationalist aspirations or inspirations, has always played a leading role in Spanish politics from a sense of politics that always, all of us here, we have thanked and to all of us has seemed like an exercise of responsibility in the political environment. However, lately what we have heard in a way I would say that too noisy is what, with whom, the adjectives that disqualify before knowing the initiatives themselves. Look, this government is told of everything, phylo-terrorist, social-communist, Bolivarian, gang... it's told of everything. I have no problem, do not think it is something that bothers me especially; what bothers me is that behind the previous disqualification there is a refusal to know exactly what is proposed and what distance each political formation has from what is proposed. Mrs Arrimadas, I know, that for you it does not have to be anything easy, really that it does, and not only because of the external interferences, that, of course, because the lords of the People's Party and the lords of VOX are much more comfortable with Citizens in the photo of Columbus or with Citizens in that space where you dilute, are much more comfortable. It bothers you much more that you have your own life and that you have embarked on a path that I hope, Mrs Arrimadas, that you will have no return. I hope so, I hope so, I trust you will have no return, and I know that you will receive a great deal of pressure, you are receiving it, from outside and within your organization. I believe that we are all aware of what it costs in an organization to go back after bad electoral results, it has happened to us all; it is very difficult to go back again, it is very difficult for that orientation to be shared by a large part of the organization and it is difficult to continue along that path. But I insist that I trust that you can really find a space that is essential at this time in Spanish politics, and I believe that your contribution as a group to that space can make Spanish politics for the next few years significantly better in terms of dialogue, in terms of democratic quality and in terms of understanding. I believe this, whether or not it is agreed with your political formation. I think it is good for the whole of politics and for this Congress of Deputies. You have commented on some things in the rostrum, Your Honor, which I do not share. I don't think there's a theater going on when we disagree about ideas. I believe that every political formation has its own inspiration, its values and its bets, its beliefs and its way of understanding the world, hence the richness of politics. Those who deny that directly deny politics. What I do believe is that we are facing a legislature that has a solid government, and that is what I want to say to you very clearly. Mrs Arrimadas, we have a solid government; the Socialist Party and the United Nations We can form a solid government that has a four-year road map and that has many challenges ahead that are essential for this country to achieve greater levels of well-being. But even if you don't like the composition of this government - which I respect - there are possibilities of agreement, of meeting and of understanding; probably not in everything and for everything; no one asks anyone for a blank check, no one. At least I'm not naive about that, I know that no one gives us a blank cheque, neither do we ask for it, nor do we aspire to it, but I think that there is a wide space that we have to go through in the meeting, in the dialogue and putting forward the general interests. That is why I have to tell you, Mrs Arrimadas, that I was surprised in the days before this debate to be conditioned - I understood it this way, you have clarified it and I thank you - the last processing, not now, of the draft budgets to issues where this finance minister, of course, cannot change a public account. I can assure you that as Minister of Finance I have not incorporated in the negotiations any new type of clipboard that is not strictly the draft budgets. I can tell you, I have talked about numbers, I have talked about political priorities and I have talked about political strategy, and all the groups that have sat with me can confirm it because it has been so. I would therefore ask that, at this important time in the country, we all have the capacity to rise up, also the Government, Mrs Arrimadas. Of course, a government that's solid but also has its days, huh?Of course, it is a government and there are days when its members can coincide more or less with what we say or declare, that is an obviousity of any coexistence, it happens in all coexistences and not only between ministers or representatives of different parties but of our own party or of our own political formations. That in politics is something normal, usual, with what you have to live with. But I do say to you, Sir, that it seems very important to me that at the moment the citizens feel that this Congress is taking care of their daily interests, of the short term, even of the medium term, but as I say to you, of the short term, so that they can have a system of protection that will allow them, as this budget proposes, to have 67 % of the sums allocated for economic activities; that EUR 4 billion will be used to protect people who are unemployed or people who may be in ERTE; that we can obtain a determined support for certain groups such as you have mentioned, that of self-employed people; essential, Your Honor, if we were not sensitive to this situation, we would not have brought to this House the approval of a termination benefit, which I believe also marks a very important element with regard to this group. We would not be working, primarily with the Ministry of Inclusion, to try to ensure that the benefits received by self-employed persons are higher quality benefits, in terms of sick leave, in terms of benefiting from some other issues on which self-employed persons do benefit; we have extended the system of modules, as you well know. Therefore, of course we have a long way to go and of course these accounts can be improved. As the improvement of public accounts goes through issues that are significant in the draft budgets, I am convinced that we can have a meeting point. Obviously, if the public accounts depend on whether we agree on the health law, the education law, the immigration law or any other matter, I can tell you that the complexity of the draft budgets is compounded by the added complexities that in the end they do are to establish vetoes. And I am talking about vetoes because it is said: with this political group I will not vote. I always say that it is curious that such a reference should be made when it comes to voting in favour and not when it comes to voting against; when it comes to voting against, it seems that we can all join together, but when it comes to voting in favour, we begin to look with distrust at who is voting with and what kind of hidden pact under the line has existed for that agreement to happen. I think we have to transcend it. I want to tell you, Mrs Arrimadas, that I trust your leadership within your political formation. I humbly give you my opinion, that I know it doesn't matter, but I wanted to tell you this because I have an idea of the enormous complexity of conducting political formation in an environment in which you have to be looking right and left, trying to agree on what you get, making useful policy and, therefore, trying to take heart of this issue. Mrs Arrimadas, I am not responsible for the accounts of the autonomous communities nor for what my political formation poses in each of the territories, just as I understand the autonomy of your own political formation in each of the territories. It does not seem to me that at this time we can prioritize other issues other than the accounts. I imagine that these amendments in their entirety are presented on the basis of the accounts, not on any other issue that has nothing to do with the accounts. As long as it concerns numbers, the debate will be focused; the problem is when the debate refers to other elements that cannot be discussed or voted on with a draft budget. I particularly believe in the usefulness of politics, Mrs Arrimadas. I believe that politics is legitimised to the extent that it is useful, and that pragmatism of the usefulness of politics is what the citizens ask of us. They ask us to agree to improve their lives, and we can discuss which issues to give priority to. You speak of bipartisanship, but at the moment you cannot speak of bipartisanship in this country with a House with this composition. Bipartisanism has been a reality, and I would say to you more, Mrs Arrimadas, a reality that has worked in the history of our democracy. Obviously, I do not identify with the stage in which the People's Party has ruled, and I imagine that they do not identify with the stages in which the Socialist Party has ruled either, but bipartisanism has worked for a while in our democracy. I am not a political analyst and therefore I do not know whether this situation will continue in the future, but, for today, we cannot talk about bipartisanism in Spain. In Spain today there is a reality that goes beyond the classic bipartisanism and that requires groups like yours that, depending on what the policies are, depending on their ability to influence - well understood, as I am commenting on it - can decide that one initiative should move in one direction or another. Mrs Arrimadas - I have also mentioned this to Mr Rufián before - you have moved your readiness for budgetary processing, but a few days ago you were putting certain conditions, which I understood - if not, I am glad - with regard to the language of the vehicle or to the referendums in Catalonia. I thought, but the same thing I was wrong, that we were already in the shadow of the elections in Catalonia again, that we were anticipating our positions in Catalonia because what we do with this draft budget could harm our political revenue. As I said to Mr Rufián and now I say to you, that I do not share because it is a wrong analysis. I believe that Catalans and Catalans who are independent and non-independent demand that the political groups isolate the question of resources - which are good for everyone, for investments, to protect people, for scholarships, for school eaters, for Catalan health to be able to give an answer as it deserves at this time to Catalan society and Spanish society -; that we be able to discuss the identity issues or those related to Catalonia's fit in Spain in the Catalan elections; but that we allow whoever wins in those elections to have minimal resources to enable him to undertake a political project. Because the situation of the autonomous communities would be genuine asphyxiation, ladies and gentlemen, if not because this Government has a very high sensitivity to the autonomous communities. Their resources for their funding model have been drastically undermined; however, the Government has made an effort on this issue. Mrs. Arrimadas, I hope we can continue to speak now and in the future. Of course, you spoke out of hand, you associated that hand out of hand with the questions of choice, I would prefer, Your Honor, that at this time, rather than having to find ourselves in the dichotomy of having to say black or white, of having to choose, we would have that political height of being able to agree on the basics. This draft budget is a project that, as you have said, Citizens can vote on. This draft budget does not cover any of the issues that would make it impossible for Citizens to support it. It is better, sure; we can continue to improve it, I have no doubt; but I trust that we will all be able to bear in mind that the priority, the interest that we have to put before us at the moment is the interest of the citizens; we have to derive other debates towards other environments, which will be, where we probably have serious discrepancies all political formations, but let us not deny our country the bread and salt, because this budget alone provides for Catalonia and Spain the bread and salt. From there, we can talk about everything we have to talk about, but hopefully we will be able, with this budget, to transcend classic schemes of politics, in which it seems that we always have to play everything or nothing, as in roulette, and we will be able to agree on the general interest of the country. Of course, you will find us there with your hand stretched out, Mrs. Arrimadas. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u19	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs. Arrimadas García.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I appreciate your words, and I also know that you are sincere. I can tell you that I'm very quiet and very strong, because I'm doing the right thing. Because there are others who are thinking about how many people are going to vote for me when the next election comes. Do you know what I'm thinking? How many people are going to be alive when the next election comes, how many people are going to have work when the next election comes; and when your guide is that, I sleep like a log, and if I don't sleep it's for a five-month-old boy, not for anything else. Look, as far as the political area is concerned, I say this to the two of you, the PP and the PSOE: get out of here and look at the European Parliament. You wonder: where is Citizens, what am I, I am center... Look at the European Parliament. In the European Parliament there are Social Democrats, who are supposedly you; Conservatives, who are the People's Party; Liberals, who are Citizens, and then all kinds of nationalisms and populisms. Why do they not understand that Spain is within Europe and that this Congress, with its more and less, with different representation, is a reflection of what is happening in European Parliament society? Where's Citizens? At the centre, between the Social Democrats and the Conservatives, in the Liberals, do not turn around again! What happens is, as it's been forty years telling all the Spaniards that either you're red or you're blue, when they realize that there was a drawer in the middle full of people, they say, "What is this, where did it come from?" You have said one thing that is really worrying: It is that we are antagonistic with the PP, with the conservative party. With what you would have to be antagonistic as Social Democrats and as a party supposedly left-wing is with nationalism, which is the most right-wing, the most retrograde and the most sectarian there is! [[Applauds]] But they have made us believe that the logical thing is that the PSOE pacts with Bildu rather than with liberals or conservatives. Forty years of fiction. I have said it publicly and I say it now: we are doing what I think is right from the beginning, we can be wrong, but we are doing what I think is right. On the subject of budgets I have two objectives, and I have said this publicly: one is to sit down and take pummelite insanities out of budgets and make them a little better - they are never going to be as I want, but they are going to be better - and, two, that you at once have to choose and stop making concessions to separatism for a handful of votes in Congress. But, Minister, I'm sorry, you're not going to choose, you're centered on numbers. Who is going to have to choose, and is not - is not even when a state of alarm is declared - is Mr Sánchez. And the game is over, the time of truth has come, the time has come to choose. Here is a hand spread that you know is serious, that is reliable, that is responsible. We've taken a lot of things forward together for the good of the Spaniards. But if you do not take this hand and Mr Sánchez prefers to take that of Bildu and Esquerra, in exchange for humiliating us again in Catalonia to those who want to school our children also in Spanish, you will never be able to say again that they had no other choice. And yes, there are also economic differences. Or do you think that you can be content in the same way with an anti-system of Bildu as a liberal party like Citizens? I'm willing to give in to some positions, but as much as I get to Bildu's economic model, no. What is very rare is that you are able to twist so much as to consider Bildu a reliable partner, that is rare, it is rare in Spain and it is rare in Europe. That is why I repeat to you again, here is a serious party, here is a hand stretched out, sincere, truly, but to you comes the time of truth: either Bildu and Esquerra, or Citizens; or the economic moderation and equality of the Spaniards we represent, or the radicality and the nationalist cacicadas, which are going to break our country. You choose. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, your derogatory references to bipartisanship do not share them. When I say that we are antagonistic, I am not referring to the fact that we do not have the will to agree on basic consensus, it is necessary to recognize that we represent different models of society. But that is the greatness of politics, politics would not make sense if we all thought uniformly and if we all had the same inspiration and vocation. Then it wouldn't make sense. Of course, the politics of this country in these years of democracy - by the way, years of success, I want to claim them as years of success - will have liked it more or less depending on what the People's Party has been doing when it has ruled, but it is clear that when citizens face important decisions regarding the appointment of their representatives, they know perfectly well that there are two models of society. The ideologies exist, Mrs. Arrimadas, and it is good that they exist. Of course, politicians have to claim the ideology that we each profess, it is obvious. And of course the world is developing, the world is not something alien to ideology or politics, it is not something that runs in parallel and we are here as a sort of game, as you call it. This is no game, it is that I do not share the economic policy of the People's Party and the People's Party does not share the economic policy of the Socialist Party. And that is respectable and has allowed us to make a series of transformations in our country, sometimes at the hands of the People's Party, sometimes at the hands of the Socialist Party. Nor do I benefit from that speech of the new political formations - I say new for the time it makes of its birth, not for another question - that appear on the political stage and question the whole of the established order. If there is a gap for everyone, Mrs. Arrimadas!, if this Congress is a representation that there is not only a gap for everyone, but also the citizens want us to have our gap. That's why they put us here. And sometimes we question the legitimacy of the people we're sitting here. With some of them I consider myself in the antipodes, Mrs Arrimadas, I do not share anything they say, but sitting here is a sign of the functioning of our democracy. Therefore, all your ladies and gentlemen deserve the respect of the rest of your ladies and gentlemen because we are all here for the same reason, because the citizens have chosen us. Then we will have different sizes and more or less capacity depending on our size to exert our influence, but we all have the legitimacy that the ballot boxes give us and here in this Congress, on too many occasions, we hear disqualifying towards each of your lordships for the simple fact of belonging to a certain political formation. And I don't think that's good either for pedagogy or for politics to move. I don't think it's good. [[Applauds]] I respect what you say - I understand - of your aspiration to break operating schemes in which usually the winning party of the elections was the party that ruled with more or less support. This is the first time we have had the experience of a coalition government in our country, the first time after forty years of democracy. I think it reflects a lot what has happened in Spanish political life and how Spanish political life is being behaved. But, of course, Mrs. Arrimadas, it has been difficult to understand that you represented a centerright party. I haven't said that in the last few months, Mrs. Arrimadas. I say before, because you were a compact bloc with the People's Party and with VOX, you were. It seems logical to me that, once certain electoral results are obtained, that orientation is changed or not changed, that already depends on the autonomy of each party, but I wanted to recognize its courage because it is not easy and because there are many internal and external pressures to stay in the situation in which it was. And I can share, Mrs Arrimadas, that in the situation in which you were in, you had no political space. You do well to differentiate yourself from the People's Party and I think that's good news, even though you rule in autonomous communities. I have not asked you to break the governments of autonomous communities to reach agreements on budgets. In the dynamic that is often put into effect in the debates, it seems that this is logical. No, no, You make up certain governments and you will know whether you have to continue in those governments or not. It is not an issue that has to do with the draft budgets. I would like to invite you, in short, Mrs Arrimadas, to be able to transcend. Because I can share much of your speech, but you finish your speech by saying - as if it were even a challenge - that Mr Sánchez has to choose. Then we go back to the exit box. Yes, Mrs. Arrimadas, then we go back to the exit box, which was where we were talking about the compact blocks, that I don't care if I share the draft budgets but I don't vote depending on who. So we're talking about what we were talking about again. I also invite you, Mrs Arrimadas, to make it possible for this to be a budget of unity, a budget of broad consensus, because the moment requires broad consensus. And once this pandemic passes, hopefully very soon, we can go back to normal dynamics if they are good, but right now I think this country needs a budget that is supported by most of the political formations present in the Congress of Deputies; because I think they are accounts that can perfectly be approved by its group and other groups. And from there, Mrs Arrimadas, I repeat to you what I said to you - and I will finish with that -: Our readiness for you to present them in the period of amendments and we can study them. And I hope we do not have to go through cross-vets and allow us to reasonably reconcile the interests in order to get a draft budget that I believe the citizens expect, in isolation from other debates, only and exclusively in order to be able to travel in the best possible way until we definitely have a remedy, a vaccine or a medical treatment to solve health problems. There we will be, Mrs. Arrimadas, and there we will also be waiting for you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u24	Thank you, President. Madam Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I do not know if I have been confused about debate, because I have come here to talk about budgets. Today we find ourselves in an unprecedented context that no one has even imagined, a crisis stemming from a pandemic that has caused us to question, of course, the present and which, in turn, opens up innumerable and serious doubts about how to address the future. We are faced with a situation that obviously requires an extraordinary response, in the face of an economic crisis that Spain is also facing with less fiscal space because, after years of adjustments resulting from the 2008 crisis and without taking advantage of the years of growth, it has not just squared its accounts or managed, except timidly, to solve the structural problems of the economy. And it must be recognized that this is due to the scarce fiscal discipline of the various central governments and the lack of investment in the strategic sectors and tractors for the necessary change of the productive model, all this in the same cocktail pot or, in other words, of those dusts, these muds, but they are the limbs with which we have played today. In any case, this lack of fiscal discipline and strategy of the past, of course, does not in any case justify cuts in the present. The pandemic has radically changed our gaze and forces us to act responsibly and to deploy all the necessary funds to meet the various health and social needs and also to lay the foundations for sustainable economic growth. Last week we had the opportunity to listen to various participants in the Committee on Budgets, such as the Banco de España and the AIReF, and we were, of course, left with the evaluations of the independent bodies. Both say that the economy will fall more than expected and that by 2021 growth will be lower than expected by the Government. In short, the recent worsening of the pandemic reduces the likelihood of the Government's scenario being fulfilled. But what is not said, and I think it is welcome to do so, is that, on the one hand, it is very difficult to make forecasts in an unpredictable context, in a changing scenario and with a range of possibilities, of course, too wide, and on the other hand, none of the bodies, neither the AIReF nor the Banco de España, has denied that the level of recovery envisaged by the Government can be reached, around 9%, even if they consider that scenario difficult or unlikely. In any case, in the opinion of the PNV, these budgets are based on a weak macro-framework that is to some extent understandable and understandable because the budget was drafted in the summer months when the pandemic scenario was, of course, better than the current one and that is why a perhaps more optimistic approach is derived. Having a more realistic macro picture is the right thing to do, but it is that the scenario is not, it is not stable and it is that everything points out that, if this budget is approved, it must at least have a certain dynamism and it is most likely that it will have to be reviewed again and perhaps introduce new measures in 2021 - Mr Echenique has also made progress in this - a year in addition that seems to be as convulsive as the current one. The important thing, of course, for us, will be to have appropriate levers to mitigate and reduce the consequences that may arise from the variation in that macro table. I would like to make a number of observations on the general lines of the budget. As you know, Minister, the first concern of this group is Euskadi and the truth is that this budget does not leave you in a very good place with regard to the investments planned for the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, which are again relegated, nor with regard to the figures for the implementation of the commitments you have made with this parliamentary group. And it's just that we don't deserve to be excused by the pandemic. We can understand part of the delay, but not the disdain or the non-execution, and it is that, minister, the agreements are to be fulfilled. It is not very helpful to approve a budget when there are still many agreements to be implemented. I'll give you an example: the high-speed train. I am not talking to you about the execution or the planned investment, it is that even the agreements committed for entry into the Basque capitals have not been signed. If we focus on the big numbers, what we see is that Spanish growth and the Spanish economy rely on European funds. The fiscal impulse comes from the hands of these funds and they also tell us that it will have a multiplier effect, around two points of GDP. But what is deduced, Minister, is that they are putting all the eggs in the same basket, the basket of European funds, like the panacea that cures everything. We are therefore faced with a budget, of course limited and framed between two walls, the usual of a budget and the resilience funds, which, as they appear in the structure of the new budget, groups cannot discuss and this concerns us, above all for two reasons. One of them is because the specific projects that are linked to the funds and that are supposed to mark the change in direction of the economic model are unknown. They tell us about tractor projects, but the reality is that it simply sets out broad lines with large figures and a mechanism of distribution with a pre-allocation by ministries and another for autonomous communities and local authorities, but without setting the criteria applicable to the management of credits linked to that fund and thus being able to guarantee the achievement of the objectives laid down in it. And also, because we doubt the impact that these 27 billion can have on GDP if we look at the evolution that the implementation of European funds has historically had in the state and because today we still do not know what the mechanism by which these funds are to be implemented legislatively and their eligibility. What surrounds the Budget Resilience Plan is opacity and uncertainty. What are the technical criteria? We believe in our capacity to present tractor projects and in the competitiveness of our economic and industrial fabric and we cannot understand that there are no clear criteria for the allocation of these resources, which are the mother of all the resources in the budget. In fact, the truly transformative budget is going to be designed and approved by you without the direct intervention of this Parliament over the next year. Minister, you are asking us to do an act of budgetary faith when the bulk of the economy is in European funds that we cannot discuss here. As for the revenue side, we are already listening to it: optimistic income, unreal income, inflation, tax increases; they are classic criticisms of all budgetary debates, which also become the main justification for the political groups that have tabled an amendment to the whole. In this respect, I have to say that, in fact, the forecast of income may be underestimated, but also because the traditional method of preparing estimates is based on tax elasticity and macroeconomic elasticity, which do not take into account a shock as the derivative of the pandemic and which is asymmetrical both by sector and by size of enterprises. In short, if they didn't work out before, today they pose a real challenge to the unknowns that the development of the pandemic entails. It should also be remembered that this collection estimate is accompanied by a package of new tax measures that try to adapt the tax system to the digital reality: Google rate and financial transaction rate, with a collection that is still uncertain because they have not started moving. They are taxes, minister, that if you are not already in agreement with the Basque institutions it is because you are somewhat inconsistent with the very statements of reasons of your laws when defining the points of connection. We are also witnessing a series of adjustments in different taxes that seem to be due more to a political design than to its real impact on collection, a small impact, which is not going to move mountains in a recession situation. I am referring to the increase in the tax on higher incomes, the rise of the savings base to higher incomes, the property tax. In any case, these are measures that are in line with those that we have been implementing for a long time in Euskadi. Moreover, Euskadi has been much more ambitious in terms of high incomes and has even excluded sicavs and socimis from the special type of corporate tax, which you have not addressed. You should take note, gentlemen of Podemos. It is therefore surprising - I agree with you here - that, on the one hand, the opposition classifies these measures as a fiscal hack and, on the other hand, they refer to tax havens in the territories where they are already implemented, as in Euskadi. Is this consistent? Gentlemen of VOX, gentlemen of Citizens, is this consistent? And it is surprising that these same measures are referred to as progressive by the groups that make up the government and that, however, they call us from anything but progressive to those who have been implementing them for years in Euskadi. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, coherence also in Euskadi, because they are measures that the PNV applies with the Socialist Party, also in a coalition government. And if this is progressive here, so is there. The budget includes tax measures that concern us too, Minister. We do not believe that this is the best time to implement them, in a situation of economic weakness; on the contrary, they can have a negative impact on the long-awaited recovery. I'm referring to the rise in diesel tax. We're worried. You know that you agreed with my group to halt this rise in pre-account talks along with the non-increase of VAT to health and education. And, Mrs. Arrimadas, stop wearing medallions because some of us already know what happened to this issue. Minister, we talked to you about the diesel, a promise that has not been fulfilled and this - I will not deceive you - undermines confidence, but we are still in time to bring it back. I will not repeat our concern about the automotive sector, a priority sector in the Basque Country, also in the state, with high qualifications and on which thousands of direct and indirect jobs depend. Nor does our commitment to understand that this crisis must, of course, be addressed as a moment of opportunity to address the challenges of ecological energy transformation. But do you really believe that citizenship can afford to buy an electric car with which it is falling? Or what is the time to raise this tax to smaller autonomous carriers? I want to make one thing clear; this group supports and is committed to green taxation and convergence with Europe, but it must go hand in hand with time and economic reality; what we call transition. Green taxation, yes; convergence with Europe, too; but it must be applied rationally and progressively; of course, without harming or endangering jobs or sectors, whether autonomous or autonomous. We are also concerned about the increase in VAT on sugar drinks because of the negative impact that this measure could have on the economy and on the jobs that depend on this industry. We share the concern about obesity, but we do not believe in a rise in taxes that alone will change consumption habits or address the problem in depth. It is true that obesity is a problem of society and, therefore, we understand that comprehensive measures are required to go to the bottom of the issue, with a much deeper study and with another type of approach, and even with other measures, beyond a simplistic rise in the tax on sugary drinks that, understand me, are not healthy, but, in our view, it is short. On the expenditure side, we are clearly faced with expansionary budgets, and in this there is a widespread consensus from most official agencies, including the IMF. It is time to spend to alleviate the negative consequences of COVID. It is inexplicable and, of course, it is not understood that some people today are calling for a reduction in expenditure and a reduction in taxes when, on the other hand, they are the same people who, together with other groups in this Parliament, in this House, have asked to extend ERTE, more aid to SMEs, to self-employed people, to tourism, because how is it done? You guys are talking about the biggest spending in recent times. I wouldn't talk so much about how much, but about how or for what, because so important is one as the other. It is necessary to spend more to alleviate the negative consequences of COVID, but it is also necessary to spend more on productive investments; an expenditure, therefore, that must be short-term, that has an economic return and that does not become structural. If something has taught us the pandemic, it is the need to have a strong industry, not only to get out of this situation, but also because it is a good shock absorber for future crises. We therefore need to invest in policies that allow the change of the productive model, that generate economic and social return, and that contribute to economic growth. However, I also have to say that it follows from the reading of the budgets that they fall back into the same mistakes of the past, because they relegate industrial policy to the uncertainty of tractor projects linked to the resilience fund. That is why we are calling for more concrete action in these funds and in these projects. Moreover, it must be recognized - and our group is going to do so today - that, on the expenditure side, the budget, minister, contains social measures that, of course, are unquestionable: minimum living income, which, by the way, remains untransmitted; updating pensions to the CPI; Iprem; childhood; state pact against macho violence; dependency. Similarly, we must also put the gender impact report, which modifies its preparation against other reports presented in previous years' budgets; and the report on alignment with the 2030 sustainable development goals, which is presented for the first time. Madam Minister, we are facing a deep economic and social crisis, in the middle of the second wave of the pandemic, whose management demands not to make the same mistakes that were made in the 2008 crisis, which led to an increase in inequalities and failed to reactivate the economy. Today, at least, we are outside the framework of austerity policies; Europe is authorising it; and the greatest example is the suspension of fiscal rules, which has also been adopted here. I'm finishing up, President. Today, the Government is facing the adoption of budgets that are marked by the consequences of the economic and social crisis resulting from COVID; a pandemic that has shown us the main weaknesses of the economy, but also the main weaknesses of administrations in various areas. In this context, the adoption of these accounts is not going to be an easy task, because it will require a great consensus between different groups in this diverse and plural Parliament, in which partyism and, of course, false patriotism are disturbing and difficult, if much more so, the situation created by COVID. And it will also be necessary to accept that the accounts will suffer deviations as a result of volatility or collection instability. But it is no less true that, if we want to get out of this crisis, from this exceptional situation, having a new budget is, of course, in our view, a good starting point. What is evident is that we can't afford to continue with accounts that are 2018, they don't give any more of themselves, and they were also designed for economic and social circumstances that have nothing to do with the current ones, but for that we will have to talk a lot and understand each other. To this end, dialogue and understanding, this group has not tabled an amendment in its entirety. We are also a party with responsibilities in the government, we understand that it is important to have economic and social stability and we want to leave the door open, of course, to reverse certain policies and move forward in a new social contract with clear and concrete actions, and not with marketing policies that they so much like lately. But, minister, I also want to be clear. Today we are short of a good stretch to agree on budgets. Our vote against the amendments as a whole is only the starting point for a negotiation so that we can discuss the discrepancies, so that we can tackle this Basque agenda in greater depth but also with real commitment and loyalty, so that we can move towards a new economic and social reality with those tractor projects that will come from the European funds. This is politics: to speak, to contrast, to negotiate our differences and to agree, because if we do not do so in this situation of global health, social and economic shock I do not know what might be the best time to do so. Would it be better not to try and go back to elections? Leave a society plagued by the pandemic unanswered and unanswered? To miss the opportunity that comes from Europe and that for once is not marked by austerity? The answer, of course, to the PNV's opinion, is clearly no. Our attitude is proactive and proactive, always for the defence of the interests of Basque citizens ahead, with a firm will to dialogue and agree, but for that, Minister, we still have a way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u26	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mrs Sagastizabal, for your speech. First of all, I would like to thank your group for the provision it has made and usually presents to try to improve public accounts, to provide everyone from their perspective what is best for them to be stronger or to contemplate a reality that they do not currently contain. But I believe that I have been very clear from the outset that the budget negotiation was proposed and I have very clearly moved that you are no longer a partner; you are a priority partner. Therefore, I would like to convey to you my absolute confidence that we will reach an agreement for the final processing of these public accounts. I believe that there are some tasks that you have moved on on which we have to work intensively these days, which have to do with the conciliation of the tax figures that have been approved recently or that required an adjustment, some of the classic ones, which had not yet been resolved. And I believe that in the important, nuclear elements, which can contemplate this draft budget, no doubt with the amendments that you put forward on specific items or on specific investments that can be directed in one direction or another, we will agree and that there will be no problem in doing so. If I should like to say, Mrs Sagastizabal, about some of the reflections that you have made, that it seems logical to me that in the face of a fall in the tax collection as much to the lung as is taking place at the moment - you know it well, because by your own tax and collection structure you see in the first person how the fall in corporation tax is taking place, or the fall in VAT, or in the IRPF, which are very important figures - we incorporate an annuality of 27 billion European funds. This does not mean that the medium-term economic recovery has to be linked to European funds, but that I think it means very well the effort that Europe is making at the moment to make a rapid injection of resources to the economies of the Member States in order to reduce and cushion the fall in GDP that has mainly occurred in the second quarter, since probably in this fourth quarter because of the health situation we also have figures of fall that are not like those of the third quarter and will also happen next year. Therefore, it seems logical that we use that help that Europe produces for the first time, you said it well, having understood that in this situation of economic crisis we cannot apply the austerity prescriptions that were applied in the previous crisis. Recipes that - I think we have always shared - deepened the effects of the crisis because they probably took place at the time when fiscal consolidation was not timely. This is an issue that, as I said yesterday, we would have to consider when the health pandemic passes and, therefore, in the medium term, so that future generations do not inherit a very important part of our indebtedness. Regardless of whether these funds are limited and finite, we are not going to have them permanently, perhaps the most important thing is - at least as the Government sees it - that they have to be projects that allow us to accelerate the changes and transformations that we had planned as a country in the framework of digitization and ecological transition, which are issues that are very often put on the table, but also in the framework of other projects that can increase the competitiveness of our companies, such as railway corridors. As you will recall, yesterday I already transferred that these funds would undoubtedly have to enable the vertebration of our country's freight transport through the railway, which is also a green transport, to enable us to gain competitiveness to our companies. The Mediterranean Corridor, the Atlantic Corridor and the Central Corridor therefore seemed to us to be essential elements that could be put into effect on the basis of European funds and thus overcome some of the weaknesses of our production system, such as the transport of goods, which has a very important impact on the competitiveness of our companies. It is not that there is opacity, Mrs Sagastizabal - in this I want to be absolutely frank - that the speed with which we have been incorporating the projects of the European funds - which has not yet been approved by Europe, I mean - the speed with which the ministries have had to incorporate those projects defining what elements are to be based on, has not in all cases made it possible to descend at territorial level by each of the departments. I think you know that because we have had the opportunity to comment on it on different occasions. Therefore, it is not a matter of not wanting to count or not to be transparent, but it is still being worked on. The model that we have put forward in the draft budgets has therefore come down to the territory in the housing items or the environmental part, which were already pre-allocated and which are pending that it is the sectoral conferences that will definitely give that approval. I believe that in the coming weeks or in the next two or three months we will have to finish defining this whole issue. The sectoral conference of European funds should be organised, which, as you are well aware, was already communicated to the Conference of Presidents so that it would meet at the time when the departments had these ideas a little clearer. Therefore, we have to take advantage of these three years of transfer, and up to six, with loans to try to reverse those issues that we have diagnosed and that we share with our productive model in order to guide them in the right direction. Therefore - Mrs Arrimadas asked earlier, but I forgot to mention it - it is clear, and you know it, that all the investment projects that go into the amounts of European funds have to be accompanied by a reform programme. It is not yet known, Mrs Arrimadas, because it is being prepared, but everyone has to be accompanied by a reform programme, so that under no circumstances can European funds be a substitute for current expenditure. Current expenditure has to go in its direction and these projects are tractor projects, they are projects added to what is the usual dynamics of a budget to allow us to raise GDP, protect employment and, ultimately, that the situation of the pandemic can last as short as possible. [[The Lord]] I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the criteria for allocating resources for each of these items, for each of these projects, are going to be policy-specific, there is not going to be a single criterion that applies to each and every department. I'll give you an example. The Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has an important part of previous experience in all the agreements it has developed with the different autonomous communities. Indeed, one of the issues raised in this discussion is precisely the participation of the Basque Country in each of these policies, an issue that had not always been present; that is, cooperation agreements have not always been signed with the Basque Government on housing, environmental or ecological transition. I would like to say to you that it is clearly the will of the Government that the Basque Country participates in all the projects that are presented in the Recovery Plan, even if perhaps there is one in particular, Your Honor, which is aimed at an ultraperipheral area. But with regard to the projects of general interest that are proposed in the draft budgets, there is no doubt that the whole territory and also the Basque Country will obviously participate. It will be necessary to see at each of the sectoral conferences what are the distribution criteria because sometimes it will have to do with public housing parks and at other times with square meters in relation to a policy, the number of people affected by the COVID or the number of students who are at university age. Finally, there will be different criteria, there will not be a single criterion - that's what I wanted to comment on - that will raise the distribution of these funds. I also wanted to say, Your Honor, that indeed all that is part of the macroeconomic picture must be acknowledged that it is being done at a time of uncertainty. It is a time when all international analysts are insisting on the need to tackle, control the pandemic and do so decisively, because the circulation situation of the virus is directly proportional to the fall of economic activity. It is because it imposes a series of mobility restrictions that directly affect certain areas of the economic environment: tourism is obvious, but even the trade sector that is often associated not with the purchase of essential products, but with the daily movement of people and that is resented - this is verified in the VAT data - because of the limitations that are being produced by each of the autonomous communities. I believe that we have always shared that the priority was to stop the virus and that, therefore, the measures had to be clearly framed in limiting its contagion, limiting its expansion. In this regard, we have made much progress over the past few months. Your Honor, I believe in the co-governance models because they are allowing us to succeed on the very similar measures that could be developed by the Spanish Government. I say this because some think that it is only possible from the unit of command or from the centralized management to give an effective answer to certain questions, and as you know I do not share that position. The more able we are to accommodate the measures that may arise to the actual situation of the territory, the more able we will have to succeed and not produce unwanted effects on the economic environment of certain regions. I therefore believe that we have walked and that we have done so, among other things, in agreement with your group in everything that implies this model of co-governance that has even extended to the decree of alarm. So it is the delegated authorities - presidents of the autonomous communities - that have the responsibility to administer, to arbitrate measures that we all share that are tough, but also absolutely essential, so that we can save lives and continue to walk in this direction. The whole share of the macroeconomic picture of 7.2% growth in relation to the fall in GDP this year shows more or less correctly what this asymmetrical grape implies. It is clear that if we fall more this year, probably next year we can get better, but that, as you will understand, is no consolation at all. The important thing is to have figures that really allow us to adjust to what, at this time, with all the uncertainty, are the forecasts that national and international agencies are making on the draft budgets and, in this regard, I wanted to repeat what I said yesterday. The comparisons they are making to us are not about the incorporation of European funds or the resumé of the third quarter. That is to say, that 7,2 % that we reflect, which is the parameter that can be comparable to the other figures given by the other bodies, took into account this growth that had occurred in the third quarter and also that these European funds are undoubtedly going to be a very important dynamism for our economy. I share with you, however, that the challenge is that of implementation; an execution of 27 billion in addition to the usual investments being made by the State, which I understand is not going to be uniform on the part of all the departments because there will be some gaps in some projects, while in others they will be possible immediately because the convention or legal instrument that can make it possible already exists. I would also like to say that the decree-law that will try to speed up all procedures and procedures will come to this Congress very soon, just to remove bottlenecks, without that imply losing any sort of control over public money, which will allow us to go faster in time and above all be able to charge, if I may say so, a large part of these projects so that we can, over the next three years, complete the whole commitment of spending on the transfer. You know that this is a European requirement. Then there will be an extension or not. Today, this is the case and it is three years since the European Commission has been able to commit the expenditure of this 70 billion from the transfers themselves. With regard to the EU-react, which is another of the 13 billion funds, which is an unspeakable amount, an allocation has been made from the outset for the autonomous communities which could somehow remove the obstacle to the multiannual financial framework with regard to the convergence funds. I'll say it another way. Normally, the Basque Country has had less access to the funds of the multiannual financial framework because in the categorization of the regions the intensity of the aid is different depending on the level of departure. We have isolated the React from this situation, so that it will be linked to the health, education or social services projects that can be presented in the programming, that yes, that has to be done exclusively by the autonomous community. We will then send them to Brussels and Brussels will give the approval or the indications, and then again they will have to return to the territory. There is a very large amount of these resources for this year, which is EUR 8 billion. In the coming weeks we will convene the conference so that governments know what operational programmes they have to work on, we can exchange information and continue to walk in this direction. Finally, with regard to European funds, we will work in the co-governance environment. There are some, such as the corridors I have just mentioned, which are strategic country projects, usually autonomous intercommunities, that is, they do not have an assimilation to a specific territory, and they are projects that of course we are going to push. But there are others that have to do with the landing of policies that each department is working on and there will be a capacity to be able to jointly agree on what investments or what programs we need to work on. I want to give you an absolute peace of mind because our way of working is going to remain the one we are developing in the last few days, when co-governance is an essential element for us. With regard to the amendments in the spending policies, we will have the opportunity to see them, Mrs Sagastizabal, throughout the process of amendments, and I therefore place them at that time. As far as income policy is concerned, I want to say - as I told your partner in line - that I never understood that the diesel tax was a red line of the PNV, it was a mistake for me not to understand that it was so. In any case, I think we share that we have to work on environmental taxation, we share that we are the third country in the price of diesel, just ahead of Lithuania and Luxembourg, and that we are the fifth country in environmental taxation. This is not an element with which this government, and I do not believe that your ladies and gentlemen, feel comfortable, because we do indeed believe that the energy transition, the environmental transition, is a key element and an opportunity for the future in the empowerment of our companies and in the ability to gain in competitiveness. We will therefore have to continue to work on all the taxation that is reflected in green policies. What I can tell you is that I have no doubt that we will reach agreement in the process of amendments and, therefore, tranquillity in that regard. With regard to the VAT on sugary drinks, I would also like to convey to you that it was the Ministry of Health - just now the Minister has just left - that suggested to this Ministry the need to use taxation within its comprehensive plans. The Ministry of Health is working on a comprehensive plan - which has been temporarily interrupted as a result of the pandemic because the five senses of the ministry are put in place to stop the infection of the childhood obesity virus. As you know, childhood obesity is the predisposent of the most serious diseases suffered by the young population, including a serious disease such as diabetes, frequent among young people and which is directly related to the predisposing elements to obesity. Ladies and gentlemen - and during the course of the debate I have heard some positions on this issue - what it is about is to discourage the consumption of sugar drinks, not that people pay more for the drink, because sometimes when the tax instrument is used in terms of reorientation of conduct I think it is not well understood what it is for. The point is to replace this type of beverage with other foods that are healthier for the child population, not that we are masochists and want people to want to pay more for the same. It's not about that. In fact, a major concern is that the consumption of sugar drinks is not directly associated with income levels, i.e., there is no distinction in the consumption of sugar drinks depending on whether the person belongs to a family with less income or more income. If I'm in a hurry, even some tempting studies that have been made indicate that people with less income consume more sugary drinks. Therefore, what is at stake is to prevent that from being a regular - not, of course, sporadic - drink of consumption among young people, because, as I say, what we claim is a superior good that is to protect their health. I would also like to say, Mrs Sagastizabal, on the questions that I was asking myself, that I think I remember that everything is ready, and if we do not have to work on it in this period until the end of the year, so that the minimum living income - I think that the law itself established it - can already be started as of January. I understand that it was so and that it follows its path, follows its path. If this is not the case, we must also try to speed it up during the period of amendments. I conclude, Your Honor, by acknowledging to you, as I always do in public and in private, that for this Government it is a priority to reach an agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party, not now for a draft budget, which is a short-term situation, although it is of extraordinary importance, but above all and basically in view of the duration of the legislature and the completion of it. For us, and I have always said this, the investiture agreement that made it possible for President Sánchez to be president is a very important agreement that also marks the action of this government and I have no doubt that in this matter, as in many others, we will continue to work - it is not easy to reach agreements because you are hard on your demands -. I understand that, to date, probably more late than we would have liked, we have always achieved that agreement and I therefore also trust that we will achieve this in the process of amendments for this draft budget. In any case, the Government is open to all the contributions you want to make and, as always, I must thank you for the tone of your speech, the elegance that marks the parliamentary style of your political group and insist that we continue to speak during the period of amendments. I am convinced that in the end we will reach an agreement that will allow the Basque Nationalist Party to support this draft budget. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u27	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u28	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. Today we are not voting for the approval of the budgets, we are simply paving the way for these budgets to move forward. I thank you for your words and we picked up the glove. We believe, as you have rightly said, in useful politics. We are a party that has shown that dialogue, negotiation and trying to reach agreements between different, and from the discrepancy, we have it in the DNA, we have it very much in mind because it enriches the debates and makes it possible to make better decisions, as it involves putting in the position of the other. We agree with what you said about the macro table. We agree that the virus must be stopped. He also spoke about the Atlantic Corridor, and here we disagree, minister, because we are very late and have not been very diligent in this execution. I agree that European funds should be used as a lever for tractor projects. You have told us that we are working in each of the ministries, which is why I said in my speech that we need much more clarity as to the definition and selection of instruments for the management and operation of tractor projects, if they are to be the foundation of recovery and the basis of the future. I am glad that you are also willing to open that debate about diesel, because we do not think it is the right time. As I said, green taxation, yes; convergence with Europe, too. The aim is to decarbonize, but decarbonize is not just to electrify or deindustrialize. That is why we believe that the transformation of mobility must be accompanied by innovative and sustainable industrial policy. But we have time, there is time, and we will work on it with you. We are ready to speak, negotiate, agree and resolve our differences in the coming weeks. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u29	Thank you so much. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Sagastizabal, I reiterate the offer I made to you from the rostrum and again acknowledge the role of that useful policy that you put forward in your speech. Of course, when citizens put their trust in political representatives, they want to work for the general interest and to solve the problems they face every day. As you have rightly said, your political formation has it in your DNA. It has always been clear that their position should allow them to influence government policy, budgets or any other legislation. Therefore, Your Honor, we will continue to work in the same direction, from the conviction that we will reach agreement, as I have just said. I reiterate once again that for us the PNV is not a partner anymore, but a stable partner and a priority partner. We are therefore convinced that we will agree on something as important as this draft budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u31	Thank you very much. Next, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I start with a remark after listening to Mrs Arrimadas: Spanish nationalism has no mirrors. He is able to see nationalisms in all places and in all circumstances, except in his own. Flags yes, very big, but mirrors, none. The day when they see and understand that there may be independenceists who are not nationalists, I foresee a mononeural implosion. I want to start this debate by talking about the commitments that matter to us and to us, the commitments to our people and their people. As representatives of Euskal Herria Bildu, we have made a commitment: to protect and expand the social, labour and economic rights of citizens. We commit ourselves to improving people's lives; we commit ourselves to giving them good news and making their lives worth living. We have a word and we value our word. And today we can say that we are taking steps, though timid, much more timid than we would like, in that direction, but we are moving forward. We also made before our country, Euskal Herria, another commitment: that we would push for decisions to reverse all right-wing policies - be it the soft right or the ultra, who has implemented them - because they have stolen workers and workers for decades and that we would strive to restore dignity and rights to the popular classes, which were so hard to conquer. That is why, despite the lukewarmness of the steps expressed in the State's General Budgets, we will vote against the amendments as a whole. Back to the scenario of extended budgets - budgets, remember, of the People's Party, it is true that supported by some Basque political option, but not Euskal Herria Bildu - is never a good option for us. It is not a good option for those who demand support from the institutions to save their distressed situation, which is the result and fruit of public policies that have systematically ignored them and which today suffer more intensely as a result of the pandemic and the triple crisis associated with it, social, economic and health. These General State Budgets are not just the economic trance to pass or exceed in order to pass another year. The adoption of these budgets is the first test of fire for a government that has agreed to power, pointing out the need to initiate a change of course in the neoliberal drift in which this state has been sinking for decades, and also, and associated with this drift, in the face of its own authoritarian, re-centralizing and derailing drift of social and labor rights, individual and collective. We are sincere, we try to be so whenever we go up to this rostrum and we do politics, and we like to speak clearly to people, even if what they can hear they like less. These budgets do not overturn the neoliberal model imposed and supported for decades, that is obvious. A model based on cuts and decreases in public power in decision-making, in the depredation of rights and freedoms, which has taken forward the present and future of millions of people, is not eradicated, it does not end these budgets; that is so true. But we believe, at the same time, that they can be a tool, an opportunity to start breaking with neoliberal dogma and really make policies that don't leave anyone behind. Because we, Minister, care more about 'what' than 'with whom'; we care more about what policies can be carried out than with whom we will do those policies. What we do know is that with the policies of the left there are some who and with the policies of the right, with the policies of the liberal dogma, there are others who: there is the People's Party, there is Citizens, there is VOX, there is IBEX 35 and there are the economic powers and elites that have mangoned and ruled in this state for decades. That is why, in view of this opportunity opened today with the general budgets, if this leads to a break with that neoliberal drift and to the opening of a new economic and social political cycle over the next few years, in that reality we will participate and travel the way together. That is what we say in January 2020 and we reiterate it today, again, in November 2020. Our word is worth more than the zigzags of some political formation which, out of pure survival instinct, today aims to present itself as moderate. I'll give you a data that maybe you've already noticed. The intervention of the representative of Citizens has taken away with a memory the victims, which seems respectable and commendable to me, I even share, but it has pointed out a figure, it has numbered 70,000 people killed in this pandemic. You, your own government, are always talking about about 40,000 so far, and I hope you'll stay there. Look at the difference in nuances: who supports the idea that there are 70,000 and not 40,000 dead and that this government is trying to deceive citizens by hiding 30,000 dead? For precisely the economic right, the social right, the ultra-right, in short, and that is what somehow remains. And I will tell you that this debate, like everyone else, brings passages, brings moments when one loses and loses; it happens to me sometimes. When I heard the representative of Citizens tell you that you, that is, the government, the Socialist Party, know better than anyone of its ability to reach agreements, something has been strange to me. The only agreements I remember that citizens have, and that sometimes they don't want to get to know each other much, are with the People's Party and with VOX in Madrid, Murcia and Andalusia, in different cities; none with you. Therefore, I do not know what I would have to know or ignore their negotiating capacity, which surely knows the united and united right when it has to reach agreements. As I said, these budgets are not going to win a year, they are going to start a path, which will take years, to reverse the path of austereicide and cuts and try to change the direction of policies between the left forces of this House so that their axis of action becomes the interests of the majority instead of the privileges of the elites; to get, this time, that the crisis does not re-pay it to the people, as happened with the 2008 crisis, because this pandemic has put on the table our vulnerability as a society, a weakness that is accentuated and eaten with the popular classes. Because it is not true that the consequences of COVID - health, economic and social - affect us all equally, it is not true. It is not true, when people do not live in the same conditions, do not live in the same neighborhoods, do not have the same social, health and care facilities and equipment. It is not true because these issues depend on the level of income, they depend on the accumulation that a few continue to have to the detriment of the majority. Rosa Luxemburg said: in a capitalist society there is inequality and oppression. And we have seen that the model under which we survive is not designed to guarantee lives worthy of being lived for all, because here the real dichotomy is not health or economy. No, the real dichotomy is health and decent living conditions for the majority, that is, for the working class, or sustaining the interests and privileges of the economic elites, to the detriment of the living conditions of the majority. Given this evidence, today and here, through the General Budgets of the State, we can begin to amend this historical injustice; an injustice that, after years and years of cuts in health and education, privatizations, devaluation of social protection, diversion of public money to private pockets, protection of the interests of the bank and vulture funds, taxations made at the demand of the great fortunes, shameful inequality of women against men, worsening of the working conditions of the workers, we must start to change. It is time to take steps towards a new economic and social model that puts life at the centre; it is time to make decisions to overcome the health crisis and its economic and social consequences, breaking ties with the policies that have brought us here. If that is the purpose that encourages this Government in these budgets, we are ready to hold our shoulders. We are determined to work to improve these budgets as before or starting point of all the social measures that will have to come after, because they are clearly improveable - and so we tell you, Minister - because they can and must go much further, but just in the opposite direction that the benches of the People's Party, of Citizens and of VOX, that is, the bench of the hard right, of the far right and of the law firm of the hard right would like. Here there is much to be done and to be done, we have to move forward, in parallel with these General State Budgets, in other measures; we have to work on the restitution of rights for women workers in a situation such as the current one, where the loss of the job is girded like a sword of Damocles over the neck of millions of people. I could start today and not finish until tomorrow by quoting all the companies that are firing workers or closing the business. I have told you about Alestis, Tubacex, Aernnova, Matricerias Deusto, only Basque companies, and there are many more than these, but surely in the Spanish state they could bring me many more. And we could also talk about all the workers who are on strike to defend dignity in their jobs, today more threatened than yesterday, such as the seamen of the port of Bilbao. That is why labour reform needs to be repealed. As I stick strictly to these general budgets and to what needs to be strengthened, I think it is clear that we need to strengthen public services and public health; we see the effort, but we need more. Education needs to be strengthened. Just one example. The other day a philosopher, in a medium of communication, said that less ideology and more solutions are needed. Just like, less ideology and more solutions. And where do the solutions come from but from the implementation of ideas? And what are a series of concatenated ideas that push towards the same goal but an ideology? That is what some defend, the technocracy in the face of democracy. Therefore, it also requires more education, so that people understand that democracy is the power of the people in front of the technocracy, which is the power of the elites. There is also a need to strengthen care, the right to care and to be cared for. And it is necessary to eradicate inequality between women and men, because it remains shameful to have to go up to this rostrum to say that the wage gap remains a constant in the lives of women in the Spanish State. And we also need - as you said a moment ago, Minister - an ecological transition, but we need to be bold in that transition, in energy and in ecology, and for that we must not submit to the blackmails that some multinationals can try to put into practice. But, to achieve all that, to have resources for it, it takes a tax model that is based on a precept as basic as that who has the most pays, that raising taxes to the most has is not a possibility or an option, but an obligation, an ethical imperative. Because the tax reform envisaged in the budgets is fine, but it remains very short and you have recognized it in some way. There is a lack of progress in a tax on wealth that draws the zero tax from the tax haven installed in the Spanish state, which is called Madrid. There is also a need to reduce corporate tax deductions. It is necessary to raise the taxation of the IRPF not only to an elite or superrich, but also to the rich, because it remains outrageous that five people in the Spanish state have more money than 25 million citizens of the Spanish state, and that is happening here and now. In short, to collect more those who have more to guarantee dignity for all and for all, through a redistribution or distribution of the real and effective wealth, because today the wealth exists and what needs to be done is to bring it together. There are tax havens - either in Jersey, Switzerland or anywhere else -; there are in the money that the bank has remained, EUR 60.6 billion, and it does not plan to return; there are in the corruption, which has been carried out of the order of EUR 90 billion per year, according to studies by the AIReF itself, EUR 45000 that has been carried in full and another EUR 45000 that is being sought to be recovered; there are in the 30 billion euros that are tax evaded every year, according to a study by Gestha, and there are also in what we lose tax collection capacity, EUR 55 billion per year, if we compare it with what other European countries do in tax matters. Therefore, we know where we have to go to get the money or, it would be better to say, to get the money back, and we have to do it now. That way and with those resources, we can invest in what is important, much more important than any useful infrastructure that is sold or raised and, of course, much more useful than any useless institution or Head of State that is demonstrated; and that reality, that is important is people. Try to be powerful, and even fearsome, for the money they invest in people and not for what they spend on weapons, soldiers and militarism. Because, gentlemen of the right, listen to me well. Step by step, decision by decision we are going to dismantle the scaffolding of privileges and kidnapped democracy in the hands of elites to recover all the rights that have been taking away from people, workers, pensioners and families. You probably love that the rich don't pay taxes, that they don't pay the taxes they have to pay, but that has to end. You - the blue bench, the green one and the orange one - will surely love that the banks fill their pockets with the effort of the people and with the public money, and that has to end. They have to return the money they were lent and they have to put an end to clauses, such as the IRPH and others, that continue to make people live and suffer. To you, who defend the evictions of families in order not to infuriate the vulture funds and the holders of those houses - the banks - you must also be told that this has to end, that today in Santurtzi, at this hour, you are disposing of an eighty-six-year-old lady named Lidia, because, first, you deceived her and then a vulture fund has taken over her home. And that has to end. To you who have collaborated - or collaborate because you govern together - to jibarize public health for the benefit of the private business - or concerted, which sounds nicer to you to say - you also have to finish. Because it seems that they would have to have understood since there are no beatings that stop the people who in the working-class neighborhoods ask for the same equal treatment in health that they have in the rich neighborhoods. And don't confuse the people who go out in the working-class neighborhoods with those who beat up with pans and fachaleces. It probably makes sense to you that a company can trample on the rights of its workers and fire them almost for free. What's more, they'll tell us about: it's the market, friends. But that also has to end. To you, who decide to look elsewhere so that you don't have to look at the pensioners when you claim what belongs to them, what you have won for decades for justice, you will also have to tell them that you have to put an end to that ignominy. You, who are very concerned - very much, as far as we see in this House - about the migrant people who come to the Spanish state, even criminalising it, and nothing for the young people who have to go outside to seek the opportunity that they are denied here, you must also end that privilege. Those who are angry with any policy aimed at eradicating violence against women must also be put an end to it. Because all this is what, in short, we have to start pushing with these budgets. I said that they do not like these budgets or the process of changes that a majority of leftists, hypothetically, could carry out and that we will push for it to carry out. In the end, with clear action and determination like the one we put forward, the kidnapping of democracy by the financial and economic elites ended, the protection of public power ended only for the rich. Someone yesterday in that debate told us what the etymological origin of the word economy was. Today I want to say what the etymological origin of the word democracy is: the power of the people. That is what we would have to recover in order to dignify politics as well. And I understand that the members of the People's Party, the Citizens' Party and the VOX don't like what I'm saying. I also understand that your reaction to what I am saying provokes rejection. I can only dedicate to the lordships of Citizens, of the People's Party and of VOX, in substance and form, what says an old Chinese proverb that gave rise to Slavoj Zizek for headline one of his books: Welcome to interesting times. And once we have expressed our sense of vote and the certainties that encourage us to that sense of vote and in a way of conclusion, I will very clearly express to you our determination: to continue working for and for our people, Euskal Herria, for and for the working class and for the freedom and dignity of our people and our people. And since we are never going to give up our goals and do not resign ourselves to what there is and to nothing progress, all we have to do is do what Piotr Kropotkin pointed out: to succeed it is necessary to dare. And today we dare to vote against the amendments as a whole and we also tell them that this will not be the first step Euskal Herria Bildu takes; moreover, we tell them as clearly as possible for anyone who wants to hear it, and even more so, that today nothing ends, today everything just begins, because we are still devouring a slow impatience so that all the unjust things of this world can really change, so that the world starts to change base and the nothing of today is everything. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u33	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u34	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr Matute, for your group's willingness to allow this draft budget to be dealt with. I think it is very important to point out that the investment bet on social expenditure covered by this draft budget is a good reason to be able to support it. I therefore believe that it is very important to highlight the spending policies that are most directed at the welfare of people and the elements that characterize the identity signs that this Government always projects in its legislation and, in particular, in the public accounts. I believe that there is room in these public policies so that we can all feel identified, and as an independentist force, in addition to a leftist force, you will be able to find, as soon as you read with interest the draft budgets, many items that are aimed precisely at alleviating the suffering of people because of the economic situation that has arisen from the pandemic, such as the protection of workers through the ERTE; a mechanism that has proved to be quite effective in preventing bleeding in the labour market, a tool that has enabled 80% of people in this situation to be incorporated to date. Those elements must continue to be deepened. On the other hand, we have the benefits for the cessation of self-employment or the recognition of the right to benefit to persons who had already lost the unemployment benefit and all the economic measures, in the area of work that, as you know, we have been developing since the beginning of the pandemic and that most of them have counted on their vote in favour also in its handling in this Congress of Deputies. It is clear that this project - you said - does not reverse the policies that were promoted by the People's Party. You referred to some of them that have to do with, for example, the labour reform or some issues that are part of our programmatic agreement, the agreement that United We can with the PSOE to make possible the investiture of President Sánchez. And it is true, Your Honor, that we will have to work through this legislature in a government that, as has been shown, is solid, robust and has four years ahead to develop its entire programmatic sheet. Many of the issues to which you have referred, on which you have emphasized, are reflected in that programmatic agreement and we will be developing them - some of them are dated and some are not - throughout this legislature. Your Honor, politics is the art of adapting to the changing reality that we live in our environment. You were talking about income policy and it is true that the aspiration of this government is that there is no differential - or lesser - between the fiscal pressure that Spain has and that of the countries in our environment. The latest data show 6.5 points of difference in fiscal pressure, so over the course of the legislature we will have to make it possible to make more progressive in our tax system, to achieve a greater yield of certain figures that, due to their complexity or their entanglement of deductions or profits, do not finish providing the yield that would seem logical and proportional to the volume of profits that have certain tax figures. I am referring, for example, to the corporation tax, which you mentioned. I hope that accompanied by the international environment, which is also working on this line, we can achieve greater progressivity in relation to some of the figures to which you have referred, in which, of course, we will have to work in the future. We have announced that we will create a committee of experts to advise this government and not only review what the classic structures of the international and Spanish tax model currently mean, but also adapt to the 21st century the new emerging areas of the economy that have no reflection on tax policy or at least its reflection is inferior to traditional business. For example, in relation to large digital platforms, we have had to light a new fiscal figure so that they can contribute to public finances in proportion to the benefits they receive. But, Mr Matute, there is still a very important step to be taken and in which we are working within the framework of Europe and the OECD. It is a question of whether collection and income can be provided at the place where the consumption of such goods or services takes place. It is an element that probably escapes us by the complexity it has, but it is tremendously important, because with this new economy, in which the fiscal location of companies is changing and even takes advantage of the fact that there may be certain tax havens where the contribution is less, we have to be able to work for tax returns to occur in the places where the element of consumption, the element of wealth generation or value added is located. It will be difficult in this area to count on the unanimity required by tax decisions in the European Union, as there are countries that have clear interests in relation to their best situation and their greater attractiveness to certain companies. You don't need to mention any, I'm sure everyone has it in mind. The road has just begun. I have labeled the proposals we have included in this draft budget as fiscal adjustments because, indeed, they are certain adjustments on certain tax figures that make us gain progressive and increase their performance, but it is not the fiscal scenario in which this Government is going to work and on which it has to continue to devote efforts and energy over the coming months. Therefore, in addition to the draft budgets, it is clear that in order to reverse some of the policies pursued by the People's Party and incorporated into our programmatic agreement, we will have to promote a series of public actions and initiatives that are not directly linked to the development of these budgets. As far as expenditure policy is concerned, I believe that they can be relatively comfortable, in so far as they are budgets that are clearly committed to the protection of people and to equal opportunities. In the various areas, which you mentioned, more than 50%, in particular 57%, of the budget goes to social expenditure. I would like to refer, above all, to the increase in the Ministry of Health, which is more than 70%; the Ministry of Education, which is also around 70% or 75%; social services, science, research, innovation and R & D+i, all of which are fundamental elements in adapting to the new realities and, on the other hand, in protecting people. [[The lady]] After a decade of cuts in public services, more or less driven by different governments, I think it is essential at this time - and this is a learning of the pandemic itself - that we can strengthen - I call it revitalizing - public services so that they not only serve people in time and form, and of course develop a whole network of primary care and have a safe environment in public health, but also a health system that investigates, a health system that teaches and ultimately contributes to the added value of the talent that is concentrated in our hospitals or in our primary care centers. To this end, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that we be able to recover some of the years lost in technological innovation within health systems. You know that health science, or health evidence, works a lot and adapts to the available technology. The emergence of a vaccine - which does not cease to be a technology - revolutionizes the treatment of diseases, as we are seeing these days, and the bags and all economic analysts are infected with the euphoria of the existence of a solution, within a defined time frame, for the most important problem we have had in our modern history. On the other hand, it is true that the health system, when it has had to save money, has tried to do so basically by protecting professionals and protecting the care provided, to the detriment of the investments being made. That is why this budget also provides for a very important budget of EUR 400 million, aimed at renewing the obsolescence of health centres in relation to new technologies, which are very expensive in health matters. The renewal of all this entails a very important cost, but it is certainly the guarantee of the sustainability of the health system, insofar as citizens come to the public system for complex pathologies, insofar as the middle class, which contributes more with its resources, feels proud of the health system, because it is also able to accept third-generation rights, not only to save lives, but also to assist people who have a sterility problem, or also to advance on qualitative issues regarding the stay and warmth of health facilities. This isn't accessory, it's not ballady. This budget gives a very important boost to health which, as I say, has been taken up by the Reconstruction Committee and is one of the great lessons we have had during this pandemic. In addition, Your Honor, I would like to say that in the rest of the games, such as the vital minimum income, which you were talking about, being our priority at that time to untie the bottlenecks, this has made it difficult to get those resources to the families in time. It is also fair to say that we have to ensure that public revenue is well spent and, therefore, we have to have controls that are not paralysing, but that are sufficient to track accountability to know where those resources are being used, and I hope that over the next few weeks we can correct some of the elements that have been at the root of the problems you were discussing on this issue. I would also like to say that we are revaluing pensions in this budget, although the CPI is probably around 0% in 2020. However, this year we had updated the pensions with the forecast that was at the beginning of the year and therefore the pensioners will gain purchasing power, but that is not an obstacle for next year's contributory pensions to rise as the rate of life, to 0.9 %, and non-contributory pensions, which are the lowest, to rise twice as much as the rate of life, to around 1.8 %. Similarly, the minimum living income rises, because I do not know if you remember that the update of the minimum living income was linked to non-contributory pensions. Therefore, the minimum living income will also update its benefits over the next year. Similarly, your honor, the allocation for the system of dependency is increased by more than 600 million, and not only that, but the agreed level and the minimum level for the provision of these services and for the autonomous communities is recovered. And, ladies and gentlemen, we maintain the social security contribution for some 60,000 caregivers, basically women, with a budget of 218 million, who have recovered so that these women do not have a problem in the future with a view to receiving a benefit, a pension or what might be of interest at the moment. Similarly, all European funds draw some of the designs that will also encourage, boost, the care economy. I am, Your Honor, a strong supporter of a dual-functioning economy: it brings wealth in terms of creating added value and in terms of employment in a very intensive way and, in turn, it is responsible for protecting people. Therefore, also in this draft budgets, with the help of the corresponding department, we are going to work and we are going to study different models of care for dependent people or people who have certain difficulties, not only the residential model, to which I referred yesterday - a model that needs to be reviewed in view of the behaviour that has been experienced in the pandemic situation primarily in the residential areas of older people - but also in the area of conciliation, in order to ensure that in this pandemic situation we have the capacity to care for our children when they are obliged to maintain a quarantine that does not allow the father or mother to have medical leave. We have incorporated a new programme, the co-responsible plan, with EUR 200 million, which will focus on the Ministry of Equality, precisely in order to develop some experiences that will allow us to cover this situation, this vacuum that may be occurring in some families at the moment. With regard to the rest of the games, Your Honor, I believe that you have been able to see in detail what are the corresponding ones to the Basque Country. There is 9 % more investment than we had in the 2019 budget, hence EUR 764.6 million, of which 570 are investments that will directly develop the state and then there are 194 million that go into the Recovery and Resilience Plan, as previously mentioned in the PNV, aimed primarily at environmental policies and housing policies. This does not mean that the impact of resources coming from Europe ends here, as Mrs Sagastizabal also said, for the Basque Country; it means that to date the ministerial departments have been landing in each of the environments, in this case, housing policy and environmental policy, but the digital policy, which has a very important budget in the whole budget, social policy, which I have just commented on, and some other issues, is yet to come. Among the main investments you already know that there is high speed, with the trans-European transport network. The Transitional Ministry also allocates €31 million for water purification. A volume of square meters is transferred, after a negotiation with the Basque Nationalist Party on other matters, to the land occupied by the central of Lemoniz. Mr Esteban will remember this because we are working hard on this issue in order to be able to develop some expansion projects and some economic projects which the Basque Government has planned precisely in these areas which were affected by the central office in Lemoniz. The House of the Sea will also be donated to the fishermen's brotherhood, also the result of the negotiations we have had with the Basque Country over the past few weeks. In short - and I will finish with that, Mr Matute - I really believe that this draft budget has a high social component. It is a draft budget that deals primarily with people, regardless of their level of income or place of origin, a budget that is in the DNA of the configuration of this coalition government itself, and we have European investments and funds that have to allow us to move this economic situation from the health situation in the shortest possible time. I hope that we will be able to control the outbreak of the pandemic and that we can do so decisively, because the data show that, to the extent that the virus is less circulating, we will have the ability to react in an important way to the economy and we can return to the levels of growth that we had earlier this year, although that will be a different growth, a growth that will correct the vulnerability of our productive fabric and, above all, a growth that is shared and that will therefore serve to protect all companies, but also and especially all people. I therefore reiterate that thanks for allowing this budget to be processed. During the period of amendments, as with the other groups, Mr Matute, we will be able to look for those meeting points so that they can support these public accounts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will reveal something to you, Minister: there is not only a Basque agenda. I am grateful that I am aware of the issues that the PNV imposes on its Basque agenda, but we have already told them as active and passive that those issues that we consider positive for the whole of Basque society will be defended, but not all those that they raise on their Basque agenda are considered positive and, therefore, we will criticise them, for example, that of high speed. It's not a good example to seduce the high-speed one, we prefer proximity. If you have to do something, really, try it in close proximity. They get the people of Carranza, for example, not more than an hour and a half before arriving in Bilbao; they get their public transport frequency to be much more effective than there is and that forces them to leave the capital, if they work there, at four o'clock in the afternoon, because, if not, they cannot do so until the next day. That's what worries us, because, in the end, a life lesson that we should all have learned from the pandemic is that we have to take care of the local, that we have to take care of the nearby, that we have to know how to move less, but move better. You were also talking about the ERTE, and I think it's important that you pull it out. We have, and we have expressed it to you on many occasions, a certain fear that when this period of extension of the ERTEs ends, many entrepreneurs will opt for dismissal because they are not willing to keep their jobs for six months, as forced by having welcomed ERTE, its workers. We fear that this will be done because we regret the lack of labour inspection, because we believe that many entrepreneurs have welcomed ERTE only to maintain its volume of profit and not so much to maintain the viability of its company or its workers. You tell us about the fiscal pressure, which also seems important to us. No problem. I think it's good that we say things the way they are. Madrid is a tax haven, Madrid is dumping tax with other autonomous communities for its zero tax policy for big fortunes and wealth, to concentrate capital in the city of Madrid and thus strip it of other places. Of course, then what happens happens, they forgive taxes and then there's no money to dedicate it to health care and then there's hospitals without health workers. I sometimes get surprised by things I hear here. Yesterday I heard that a person can move from being a middle class to having to go to the queues of hunger in four months. I had thought that the middle class was like God, something you have to believe even if you don't see it; I don't live around middle-class people, but if there were that middle-class, it wouldn't be so mid-class when in four months it goes from living in a certain opulence to having to go to the queues of hunger. Let us stop making fiction, let us stop deceiving ourselves and ourselves with that of the middle class; here there is a majority of working class that demands having some administrations at their service and not at the service of the elites. I end up with a question, with the health system. You have spoken about R & D and you have spoken about the vaccine, and I believe that both are important elements, but I believe - although I know that competition is transferred - that the important thing is in primary care, that it has been broken down, and that the important thing is in your professionals, in caring for the healthcare professionals to whom we applauded at eight o'clock in the afternoon, but to whom we too often forget.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u38	I will speak very briefly, Madam President, simply to tell Mr Matute that I am aware that, of course - and that is why I was referring to this in my speech - the social agenda is a priority for his political formation, and all the items are thus raised. I also found it interesting to know what the detailed investments are; I know that some do not share them, but this budget has them collected and will be essential to boost them in the future. I will finish as I started, Mr Matute, by telling you that in the process of amendments we will continue to work with the political groups to make it possible for this country to finally have a draft budget that takes people into account, that is capable of minimizing the economic impact that this pandemic is having and that ultimately allows us all to progress. I hope to find myself there with most political formations, including yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u39	Thank you very much, Minister. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u40	Thank you, President. When you see the faces, you want to say, "Enjoy, I'm the only one left!" [[Laughter]] Thank you very much, Madam President, as you said before. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last Monday was the anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. Some Members of this House had not been born and some of us were just girls, but we all know that on 9 November 1989 it marked a before and after in the history of humanity. There will be differing opinions about what came next, but the undisputed truth is that what came next was what we wanted, could or could do. Ladies and gentlemen, 2020 will forever be the year of the pandemic, a year that will mark a before and after in the history of humanity, but the pandemic will pass and what comes next is neither written on the stars nor recorded on rock, what comes next will only depend on what we decide, want and can do. This House is the political expression of the union of Spaniards and Spaniards that we think and feel differently, and of the recognition of that diversity, of respect for that difference, should start everything we do, because that is the meaning of Parliament. That is why Parliament and democratic policy are resentful when projects and speeches are brought into this House that attack the adversary as an enemy, which question the legitimate government and abound in qualifications to denigrate and exclude democratic parties, which spend the day conjugating you, but which are never heard of by us. That is why we cannot give up the ethical meaning of politics. An end, however much we believe in it, does not justify any means. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - and this is not the first time I have told you in this House - it is good enough to slander this government and to question our rule of law in Europe. When the president negotiated the European funds, you sent a report to boycott them and dedicated yourselves to saying that the Spanish government was not reliable. Now that the European funds are approved, you say from this rostrum and throughout Europe too that the rule of law is not respected here, and the European Commission, of course, answers you to stop inventing stories of fear. Yesterday Mr Casado came here again to tell us another of those stories: that the government's budgets are extremist and radical. I think Mr. Married has some problem, but this is one of the big ones and it's the one he always runs into: he says one thing but the truth ends up denying him. These budgets are designed, designed, negotiated, dialogued and agreed by democratic parties, parties that have all the legitimacy of having been elected by citizens. The problem is another, although the PP does not dare to mention it; the problem is that you do not like budgets that put social justice at the centre of politics, that face inequality as it is, an evil that breaks our society. That's why the right-hand side doesn't like these budgets. I understand that the People's Party and VOX do not share them, but classifying them as a dangerous radicalism of the left does not indicate where these budgets are, but where the People's Party is located: at the end of which it is not able to move. Many parties have agreed, talked, negotiated and agreed to carry out these budgets and we will have to continue to do so in the coming weeks, left, centre and right parties - let's face it - regionalist, nationalist, liberal and socialist parties, of all colors and ideologies. I think that that seems wrong to the PP - rather than to believe it, it has made it quite clear - but to me it seems the best expression of parliamentaryism, because that is what we do here, we seek day after day the meeting points, not because we agree, but precisely because we are not; not because we are the same, but because we are different; not because we have the same project for Spain, but because we live together, gentlemen of the PP, in this small piece of land called Spain and we want to agree on a project in which we all fit. The problem will come if one day instead of verbs like building, agreeing, lifting and advancing, the whole space is occupied by those insulting qualifications that so abound in their interventions. The problem - I told you a few days ago - is not that we talk to each other, the problem, gentlemen of the PP, Mr Casado - even if he is not - will come if one day the Democrats stop talking to each other, and if you do not understand that it is that you do not understand either parliamentaryism or the time in which we have lived. [[Applauds]] Perhaps that also explains why they are once again left alone with the same qualifications as VOX, the same excesses as VOX and the same vote as VOX. These are not party budgets. They are progressive budgets, no doubt, because the Government is responsible for the political leadership of the country and the citizens have chosen a left-wing government, but perhaps there has never been more reason since the transition to say that these are country budgets, budgets in which many and very different people have been able to meet, and it is important that we have been able to join, because nobody escapes that the importance of these budgets goes far beyond next year. It is time - we say this very much to the people of the coast - to take their eyes off the foam of the waves and look at the deepest currents that drag us. Gentlemen of the PP, a ruler can be right or wrong, what he can't do is ignore the historical moment he lives in, and 2020 is a failure, it's a painful fissure in our history, it's a before and a after. Today we are setting up tomorrow's master beams and the People's Party is again wrong to stay on the sidelines of this project for Spain that we are launching. They are progressive budgets, no doubt, the most progressive budgets in history, because never before has an effort of social and economic reconstruction, such as the one we have to implement, ever been needed; they are budgets with the largest part of history destined for social spending, because that is what is needed, and you all know that my party's commitment to social justice is firm and is our sign of identity, but this time it goes far beyond. It is not just the PSOE or the government, it is a majority of the parties in this House, it is the European Commission, it is the European Parliament, it is the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank who are saying that this is not the time for that recipe of cuts that they like so much to the right and that they apply as far as they can. I hear the People's Party say that we must give security and stability to the markets, and it is true, I agree, but above all we must give security, stability and hope to the people, and from that I never hear anything from the People's Party, ever. [[Applauds]] Mr. Married spoke yesterday of balance and austerity, but it is that that word that you have been handling and twisting for decades means something very different to you and to us. You talk about austerity to hide your cuts or your labor policy from unrighteous poverty wages. Austerity for us is not to work without rest and not to reach the end of the month; austerity means to live decently and honestly; austerity is the life that the workers of this country have always lived by earning sustenance with effort and honesty. It is not they who have lived above their possibilities or those who have filled their pockets with extras; they are the ones who suffered the cuts, and that is what cannot happen again in this country. Austerity is not spending more or less, but spending the right thing, and spending the right thing is not spending the least, but making sure that we are fair in the distribution, that we will not compromise social justice. That's what these budgets do, and that's why they don't like the right-wings and say they're radical, Minister. What you do, lastly, is not called austerity nor is it called balance, gentlemen of the PP, is called cuts. They are the only ones who defend them throughout Europe and will not pass with this government. That's the difference between each other. Yesterday Mr. Married arrived here, went up to this rostrum and called the toilet heroes. He said that poverty will end, that he wants to support the self-employed, that education reform must be agreed, that employment must be created and the unemployed must be protected. The problem is not what Mr. Married says in this rostrum, the problem is the facts, as the minister pointed out yesterday. We think it's time to stop praising our teachers and start helping them. We have put forward budgets that strengthen public education by 70%, the largest share of scholarships in history and a plan to modernize the FP; you, gentlemen of the PP, have announced that you will vote against it. You've talked about toilets as heroes. We believe that the applause of the balconies and windows should be translated into resources for public health and we propose a 75% increase in their budget allocation, the reinforcement of primary care, epidemiological surveillance and 1 billion for vaccines against COVID-19, and you, gentlemen of the PP, will vote against it. [[Applauds]] We believe that childhood and families cannot pay for the consequences of this pandemic and you say that families are the center of society - and that is fine -. We have proposed to devote 159 million to combating child poverty and about 3 billion for minimum living income, and you will vote against it. We believe that we have a debt to our young people, and these General State Budgets have a shock plan to reduce youth unemployment and increase undefined recruitment by 15%, to guarantee access to housing by increasing the resources devoted to this item by 368 %, and you, gentlemen of the PP, will vote against it. We believe in equality between men and women and it is time for rights to become facts. We propose to strengthen the fight against gender-based violence, to promote policies of inclusion and incentives for recruitment, the equalization of maternity and paternity leave with sixteen weeks in transferable and 100 per cent remunerated, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, together with VOX, will vote against it. [[Applauds]] We believe that it is our duty to protect the quality of life of our elderly, by revaluing the pressures, guaranteeing their purchasing power and also by increasing more than 34% the resources for dependency, and you will vote against it. They said yesterday that the economy must be modernised, made stronger, and I think it is right, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, that is why we want to emerge from this crisis with a productive model that is based on a more just and firmer basis. We have allocated almost 12 billion to green policies, the R & D & I and digitisation items add up to 75% more, the industrial and energy policies will rise to 5690 million euros, and you will vote against it. We believe that in this new model of society and consumption culture must occupy more and more space and cultural professionals should have more protection, and that is why the game is increased by 25%, and you, Mr Casado, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, will vote against it. Ladies and gentlemen, people's dignity does not depend on their employment or on their wages or on their personal, family or employment situation. You can be worthy with little and you can be unworthy with much, and there are no lack of examples of one and the other. What is unworthy are wages of misery, exploitation of workers or discrimination against women. No worker should choose between having a job or having rights. The economic reconstruction of our country means putting all our efforts into creating more quality jobs and jobs. These budgets allocate 7400 million to encourage recruitment and promote integration; protection is extended to unemployed workers and self-employed people, who are a key element in our economic system. Mr Casado, gentlemen of the People's Party, you have decided to vote against all this. You say you are defending one thing, but you are defending or voting against it. Yesterday Mr Casado also said that he would have done things differently, and in that he is right, we agree, because, honestly, if in these months he had ruled the PP, would there be a pandemic?, would there be a health crisis?, would there be economic difficulties? Of course, there would be, but there would not be budgets with more and better health and public education, more protection for the pensions of our elderly, more opportunities for young people, more gender equality, more rights for workers, more guarantees for self-employed people and more investments. [[Applauds]] All this that you call being radical, all this that you oppose and all this that you will vote against is called social justice, I repeat, and you have never liked it, neither will you like it, nor will you like it. And it's not that I say it, it's that in this country there hasn't been a single breakthrough in rights and freedoms with the governments of the right; not a single one. Ladies and gentlemen, there are those who say that reaching a country's budget such as these means setting aside politics. I believe that these budgets are the best expression of politics. I think that with them we have recovered a space that we should never have lost, because if we have learned something from this crisis and from the previous crisis is that it was never just the economy, it was always politics. It's not just about how to deal with the crisis, it's about where we want to go after the pandemic crisis. It is time to start drawing lessons from these months, background lessons about the model of society we need and want. Because today we know, and should not forget, that when it is necessary to help, the one who comes is not the invisible hand of the market, but the thousands of hands clearly visible from doctors, nurses and public health personnel, the hands clearly visible from teachers and the State Security Forces. [[Applauds]] It's not about choosing one or the other, it's about that the invisible hand of the market needs those hands clearly visible from the public, from everyone's. I have always believed that in politics the relevance of values is measured in the Official Gazette of the State and the depth of commitments is reflected in the General Budgets of the State, and I believe that a majority of this country has clear ideas and a defined horizon. We want a free country, which is an example of solidarity, sustainability, equality and competitiveness, and we want to do so with everyone. That is why we have sought the greatest consensus and permanent dialogue with institutions, political parties, social actors and various collectives in this country. In this House we have spent hours, days, months and years talking and thinking about a safer, stronger, more sustainable and fairer country. Today, in the face of the worst crisis of our century, it is no longer enough to think, discuss and speak; the time has come to act; the time has come to reconcile reality with the ideal, the time for us to listen, for us to stop looking inside; it is the time to overcome divisions and fears; it is the time to live up to the responsibility that each one of us has with building a better country for this new time. The Socialist Party will vote against the amendments as a whole and support this draft State General Budgets and I ask the rest of the groups in the House to do the same. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government, stood.-Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u42	Very briefly, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs Lastra and Mr Echenique, for your speeches at the time of the fixing of positions in defence of this draft State Budgets. Thank you also, Mr Echenique, for defending Spain's cultural wealth. I'm proud to be Andalusian, and I can assure you I'm not going to be distracted by that kind of comment. [[Applauds]] A recognition through the spokespersons, but that I want to extend to the Socialist Group and to the United States We can for the extraordinary work they are doing during this parliamentary term, a very complex parliamentary term for this country. When this legislature began, we all knew that it was going to be a difficult stage, but much less we could imagine the outbreak of a pandemic that was going to change practically everything, that was going to bring suffering to the Spanish and Spanish and that was going to cause our economy to enter into a deep crisis. We reacted, in spring we managed to bend the curve as a country and start a process of descalation that led us to recover something from our lives. Now again, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a difficult time, it is for everyone who loses a loved one every day as a result of the virus; 1241 people have died in the last week, ladies and gentlemen, I say this so that we can measure the impact, the dimension, the suffering that this pandemic brings. I think we cannot, as a country, stop remembering every day that the worst thing about this crisis is, without a doubt, the loss of those human lives. It is also a very delicate moment, as the spokespersons have said, for many families, concerned some because they have lost their jobs or because they see with distress the restriction of mobility that affects their small businesses and therefore can also affect their more immediate future. It is also so for our elders, who look with sadness at everything that is happening and often suffer in solitude the remoteness of loved ones. Or for our young people. Please note that our young people are facing the second economic crisis; after we were just beginning to recover from the financial crisis, they are now facing a second. But I would especially like to highlight, as everyone has done, the work of health professionals, on them has been resting since last spring an immense slab, an immense burden; they work counterclockwise to care for all patients, those who have COVID and those who do not, in an exercise of professionalism that I believe is an example of how to behave in public life. I know that they and they die every day so that all the sick have the care they need, even putting their own health or life at risk. I would say that there is not enough money in the world to reward that sacrifice and commitment. Therefore, the best we can do for them is not to spread ourselves, not to help keep the virus expanding, and to protect our most vulnerable family members. To all Spaniards and to all Spaniards we want to convey a message of hope. I want to tell you that we will do it again, we will be able to flatten the curve as we did in spring, and we will recover; together, with responsibility, but also with determination. Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage of the debate we have seen and heard all kinds of opinions. I think it has become very clear to Spanish society who wants this country to get out of the crisis as soon as possible and who prefers it not. Who bets to increase resources for health, for education, for dependence, ultimately, to strengthen the network of citizens' security, equal opportunities, and who not because he doesn't care about a weakened welfare state that what causes is an increase in the gap of inequality and therefore poverty. It is clear who believes that science and innovation are the basis for our country to move forward in development and competitiveness, and who behaves simply as a negationist. Who defends the need for a change of productive model so that businesses and self-employed, our industry, are less vulnerable to the crisis, and those who have no other solution than: I oppose everything and by system. In other words, who is willing to hold his shoulder so that at this difficult juncture Spain can move forward and who has decided that it is better to be blocked because they think that they can wear down this government, a strategy, Your Honor, shortsighted and harmful. The Spaniards expect solutions and want answers, certainties and hope, and it is our duty as public officials not to aggravate the already adverse situation that we have ahead. I am therefore grateful to all the political groups that have not tabled an amendment to the whole of their willingness to work on these accounts, on this bill and also on amendments. I am sure that we will make every effort to find a fit for the different sensibilities, I have no doubt. The goal we have is a shared goal, which is nothing more or less to help our country rise up and face the future in better conditions. Some have not understood it that way, they are in their absolute right, but do not expect Spanish citizens to understand that in the worst health, social and economic crisis in this country since the war their only response has been to get rid of the responsibilities. And let me finally thank the team of the Ministry of Finance and all the ministerial teams for the extraordinary work they have done under very difficult circumstances; all of them, men and women, public servants, officials and technicians, who have shown that this country has solid, solvent and able to carry out a huge task - unprecedented, believe me - in a record time, reducing hours to sleep and to the family itself, who have dedicated their commitment to the whole of Spanish society, thank you very much. They, being at the head of all our institutions, also represent what public employees involve. From here I want to thank all of you. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, a former European President said that hope is not the same as optimism, it is not the conviction that something will go well, but the certainty that something makes sense, regardless of how it goes. And this Government hopes, ladies and gentlemen, that these public accounts will be the revulsive that this country needs to get out of the crisis and recover as soon as possible. With that will for dialogue, with that hand extended, I conclude by thanking once again the political groups for allowing these budgets to continue to be dealt with. To groups that have not wanted these budgets to continue, please reconsider. Spain cannot be allowed to block by system. I ask you to abandon that attitude. The Spanish have chosen us all and all who are here in this House, I insist, all and all, and our obligation is to agree on the solutions that this country urgently needs. In this, ladies and gentlemen, you will always find this government working. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common, and of the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in three minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have already cast the vote through the telematics procedure cannot vote again from their seats. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we proceed to the joint vote on the amendments to the entire, refundable, draft law on general state budgets for the year 2021 presented by the People's Parliamentary Groups at the Congress, VOX, Plural and Mixed [[Mrs Borràs and Mr Rego]] [[Mr Botran and Mrs Vehi, Mrs Oramas and Mr Martínez Oblanca]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 246 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 31 plus 119 telematics votes, 150; against, 71 plus 127 telematics votes, 198.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-12-CD201112.u44	Amendments to the entire draft State General Budgets Act for the year 2021 are rejected. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common, and from the members of the Government, on their feet]] The meeting rose. It was one and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
