ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u2	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the exclusion of item 30 of the agenda of this meeting, corresponding to the urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government in view of the delimitation by Morocco of its maritime border, affecting the Canary Islands and Western Sahara. [[Mrs Oramas González-Moro]] Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The exclusion of the reference point is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u3	We now turn to the agenda item on the proposals for the establishment of committees. With regard to the proposals for the establishment of committees and also in accordance with the agreement of the Board of Spokesmen, they will be discussed together and voted one by one at the end of this debate. These committees are as follows: Commission for the Monitoring and Evaluation of the Agreements of the Toledo Pact; Commission for the Monitoring and Evaluation of the Agreements of the State Pact on Gender Violence; Commission for the Audit of the Democratic Quality, the Fight against Corruption and Institutional and Legal Reforms; Commission on the Rights of Children and Adolescents; Commission on Road Safety; Joint Commission for the Study of Addiction Problems; Joint Parliamentary Control Commission of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and its societies; and Joint Commission for the Coordination and Monitoring of the Spanish Strategy to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. In this respect, first of all, Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u4	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the establishment of the committees that we are going to discuss here today, the VOX Parliamentary Group presents again the same amendments that have been tabled with regard to the permanent legislative committees at last Tuesday's plenary session and again we have to reiterate our speech; we have to say that we will support, that we will vote that yes the establishment of these committees, non-legislative permanent committees and mixed committees, although we do share its fundamental reasoning that this Government has been constituted with an absolutely artificial structure, elephantically, ministries have been separated, twenty-two ministries have been created for the first time in the history of democracy, 259 new senior posts have been created; only the cabinet of the Presidency of the Government has eleven directors-general, three more deputy directors than in the XIII legislature, and it is even heard that the Government is planning to remodel the buildings because it does not belong to the people of the Government in the buildings that are owned by the State. But what happens is that these committees are the essence of the operation of this House, and in these committees, we are also particularly concerned about VOX's position because while at the plenary session on Tuesday we were dealing with the permanent legislative committees, in these we are dealing with one such as the Spanish Radio-television Control Commission, and I imagine that the VOX Parliamentary Group will not want Spanish Radio-television to become TV3 and will want us to be able to carry out content control and promote the political neutrality of television paid by all Spaniards. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u5	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Bal. I pray a little silence, please; it is difficult to listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u6	Thank you, President. On the other hand, what happens is that, in addition to being monitoring commissions, they are consensus commissions, such as the State Pact against Gender Violence or the Toledo Pact, in which precisely political forces have to find consensus. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, do you not want such consensus within these committees, in the Toledo Pact or in the fight against gender-based violence? Do they not want to reach agreements within these commissions with the argument simply that they represent an increase in public spending, when they already existed in the XIII Legislature? Your argument is absolutely false, and that is why we will vote in favour of setting up these committees. Furthermore, I would like to tell you not to give the Socialist Party joy. They already listened to Mr Simancas the previous Tuesday, when he said: What a joy that the right-wings - as he calls us, indifferent to the different political groups - vote united. Do not give them joy, as when they abstained in the process as a bill for the validation of the Royal Decree-Law on Official Remuneration, which would have enabled the salaries of the State Security Forces and Corpses and prison officials to be matched. [[Applauds]] Don't excuse them. We could have won, it could have been the first defeat of the Socialist Group in the first plenary session of the XIV Legislature, obliging them, precisely, to this equal pay, because the only thing they are promising is to do it with gouts, against our national police and our civil guards. Finally, gentlemen of VOX, be you responsible, understand the usefulness of the opposition. Because of his fault Mr. Pisarello is at the Bureau of Congress, a gentleman who withdraws flags from Spain from the municipalities, instead of my colleague José María Espejo-Saavedra, who when he enters Catalonia needs bodyguards because he has fought for the rights of Catalans who feel Spanish in Catalonia. [[applause]] Instead of José María Espejo, Mr Pisarello, thanks to his vote! Finally, Mr Simancas, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, as you say - as you put it in your tweets - that Citizens are an irrelevant group, as you say that our 1 600 000 voters do not count at all, being in their sum more than the Basque Nationalist and Republican Left Party of Catalonia, Mr Simancas, the presidencies of the commissions that we have just created give them to our friends, to the Republican Left of Catalonia and to the Basque Nationalist Party; do not give us any to Citizens, who already know that we do not deserve them. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today I debut in this rostrum and, unfortunately, it is not to talk about anything related to the improvement of people's lives, but because the VOX Group comes here again to get bogged down in sterile debates. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, this House is coming to work, and if you do not like us to create committees that are to work, you can only have two reasons: either because they think it is a lot of work, as you have already let them see in the previous plenary, or because, as you have not voted to be in any committee, you do not want to accept the rules of democracy. [[laughs.- Rumours]] I hope that instead of coming here to discuss the work of this House, you would have that impetus to defend farmers, but here and not in your struggles to take advantage of the media coverage - yes, gentlemen of VOX - and that you are now talking more about you than about the reasons that led to those demands. [[Applauds]] I hope, gentlemen of VOX, that you would have had that impetus to defend last week the workers of our country, civil servants and pensioners who, thanks to this government, are going to see their incomes increased, while you wanted to veto their right to a better life. But it's going to be that this isn't possible. [[Applauds]] It's not going to be possible and it's pretty unlikely. You are the leaders of the no, you are the leaders of the crespation and the work commissions are neither your circus nor your toy. The working committees are a serious thing and here we come to provide solutions to our country's specific problems and needs. But, of course, that is a lot to ask for, because you have not come here to solve absolutely nothing. You have come here to create problems of coexistence and to point fingers to the most vulnerable sectors of our society. We will not allow you to use these commissions to deny macho violence, to point out with the finger of hatred to LGBTI people or, for example, to go against our Constitution, which protects territorial and linguistic diversity in our country. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of VOX, you've already started shooting your ass - and this expression is dedicated to Mr. Ortega Smith - Do you know where? [[rumors]] In my land, in Andalusia. We know them very well there, because it was the first autonomous Parliament that you came to. But it is also where we have started to plant their faces, because they are making a frivolous use of our institutions, opening debates that were already closed and wanting to back us to 1960 and the darkness of black and white. Know yourselves, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, that my land is a land of light, of white and green, of peace and hope, and not of black and white and of darkness to which you want to take us again. [[Applauds]] Nor have you learned that Spain is a plural, multilingual, modern and 21st century country. You are always filled with Spanish, but neither Spanish nor Spanish can be found in your Spain. If you don't like this modern Spain of the 21st century, you can always go to Iran, where those who financed your campaigns live. [[Several Members: To Venezuela!-Rumores.-Applause]] As long as you are here, in this House and in these committees, know that the Spaniards are respected and not used to make their medieval circus, and much less to do so on behalf of the good people of our country. I'll give you more reasons. You are being investigated for going to juvenile centers to incriminate defenseless children who have no family here. Can you have the blackest soul, ladies and gentlemen of VOX? I don't think so. Do you want more reasons? You are the great enemies of women right now. [[Applauds]] Their political size is so cruel that they are unable to condemn the Machist attacks. Ten, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we've been in this year. What have you done? Cut us evenly. But you know what? Once again in my land we went this Sunday to plant their faces and tell them not a step back. [[Applauds]] But I have more reason. You want to impose a gag on our young LGTBI, prevent their teachers from telling them that they are worthy and worthy of being loved and that they know that life belongs to them in the same proportion as heterosexual people. But again in my land we have planted their faces and, thanks to the educational community and their mobilizations, we have buried forever their neardental pin. [[Applauds]] I'm done, gentlemen of VOX. Please do not be ashamed to come here to talk about public spending, when you have just stopped collecting €96 million - you and your partners - by lowering taxes on the richest people in my land. Now you explain how those 96 million euros are not going to go to the social spending of my land, explain it, because you are not going to have enough meters of flag or big flags to cover that shame. [[Applauds]] For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I hope you have understood that you do not deserve to occupy any place of honour in the committees. As I have told you, we have come here to work, not to veto the right of the people of our country to arrive at the end of the month or to cut off their freedoms. And I'm going to tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, while this group depends, we are not going to give you a minimum chance, nor a millimetre of space for you to do here what you are already doing in my land, in Andalusia.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u9	Mrs. Velarde, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u10	Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs. Velarde. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am particularly grateful to you that, as you did to me the other day, you have recriminated previous rapporteurs who have spoken about things that have nothing to do with the issue we are talking about today; thank you very much for using the same measure. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Velarde, keep living in your fantasy world, I'm not going to get you out of that world because it's good for us to have people like you saying those barbarities in this place; keep going around. [[Applauds]] Mr Bal, thank you very much for your prompt response to our amendments. I have been touched by sensitive fibre, especially because we have not tabled any amendments, but you also remain in that unreal world. They land in reality: there is no amendment, there is nothing to say to some amendments that we have not tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, I have only been in this House for nine months and we are once again faced with the umpteenth request for the creation of new committees. I already quit; I quit convincing the PSOE, I quit convincing the PP. [[applause]] It is stronger than you, ladies and gentlemen, it is stronger than you, it is in your nature; it is in your nature to create organs, observatories, commissions and, in general, remunerated entities, you cannot avoid it. So today let me raise the shot and address to your superiors, to the people who command here, to the Lords of Podemos, who are really the ones who decide for you. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Mr. Iglesias - whose absence, like that of all the members of this government, must not have much interest in what is happening in this House - and Mr. de Podemos, you arrived here years before we came up and using a movement with which you had nothing to do but whose manifestation they immediately put themselves at the forefront: the outraged, the youth without a future, the anti-system. [[a lady deputy: they're in the Senate!]] Do you remember? You don't remember, do you? And it's just that we, hearing them today, can hardly remember. Six years ago you spoke of a system that did not represent you; you spoke of the cleanliness and functioning of the institutions; you spoke of the caste. And today, you, with PP and PSOE, are the caste; you are the caste! [[Applauds]] And, worst of all, you're part of the bipartisan system. You have entered with the PP and with the PSOE to be part of that caste, that bipartisanism to which you so much criticized. And today it is true that the PP makes it very easy, so easy to command the left trio, that it is very difficult to say no, I understand it, but that now you are reaching agreements with the PSOE and the PP to distribute the booty is really painful - I am sure - for many of your voters; it must be painful to think that you, Mr.Pomasitas, today are systemic and caste. So you, the caste masters of the system, together with your subordinate Mr Sánchez, have created a truly elephantic government; you have created a record government in terms of high offices, no less than 259 high offices alone in the ministries, according to the newspaper lainformacion.com, 33% more than in the previous legislature, in which the socialists of high offices and 'high burdens', as a good government of socialists and'socialists', were already left. [[Applauds]] But it is known that among socialists, communists, separatists, philotetras and populars there must still be some left to place; it must be that there is still one who, even if it is difficult to believe, does not have his own vestige; it must be, because you, those of the caste, are again asking today for the creation of another eight new Commissions, with their corresponding positions. Unbelievable as it may seem, you should not yet be satisfied with your thirty-eight spokespersons, thirty-eight deputy chairmen, twenty-one chairs, forty-two vice-chairmen and forty-two secretariats that you have already created, plus those that you want to create today, plus the mixed ones, plus the international ones. And each of the new posts they want to create, logically, with their corresponding complement. Look, Mr. Puemitas, it's easier to raise the salary, and that's how we ended up before. [[Applauds]] But don't be ashamed. If you want, put - and we will support it - salaries more consistent with your activity prior to the public service; recover from the sacrifice that you have undoubtedly made coming here to serve the Spaniards and that we all appreciate. [[Applauds]] With those highly qualified profiles, I'm sure you'd win. But really, stop setting up commissions to collect supplements for doing your job. I am sure that, if you do introspection, if you do an unpassionate analysis, you will agree with us. We accept, Mr Bal, the Spanish Television Commission, so that you do not say so. We are sure that all of you, the Puemites too, want to prevent this entity from remaining an instrument at the service of power, an instrument of propaganda by this Government. But since all the other commissions that we want to create are perfectly subsumable in the thirty-eight commissions and subcommittees or, in other words, the thirty-eight existing spokespersons, let us not add more layers of fat to the system to atrophy it. Puemitas, your own group will not be able to cover so many speakers without repeating itself in several of them, even if you combine with all your enemies of Spain, those who hate us so much. What do you think, Mr Puemitas, if instead of approving these new eight commissions, by firing more public spending, we dedicate our efforts to strengthening the institutions and restoring the constitutional order where it is not present? That would be a good idea. [[Applauds]] I'm done. I am sure you will agree, Mr Puemitas and all others, to make this legislative power a less burdensome instrument for the pocket of the Spaniards, more efficient in the control of the executive and therefore more democratic. And, if you do not agree, it can only be for one reason: that reason, no doubt, is why you are already almost unrecognizable in the eyes of your own voters, and is that a little pasta is enough to make you the caste. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u13	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Montesinos de Miguel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen of VOX, I, the truth... [[Laughter]] Yes, laugh; sad is what I have to tell you, but laugh. I do not understand how you have the ability to pretend to coerce this House. We have the opportunity, with the creation of these committees, to continue with the control, with the debate and with the transparency that are needed in the matters of the committees that are to be set up, and you, instead of supporting the establishment of these committees where we can exercise that control, what you do is look like the partners of the Government, that is, it is you who do not want those committees to be approved. This is incomprehensible, absolutely incomprehensible. [[Applauds]] What they are doing is gagging the parliamentary groups that we are in the opposition, but they are not going to do so today. I do not understand that you, at this stage, do not agree that a Commission such as a democratic quality audit is being set up, with the government we have, with the shame of government we have at the moment and which unfortunately represents all the Spaniards! [[Applauds]] At this moment there is an absolute disaffection of citizenship towards the institutions that this Government allows the luxury of manoeuvring and instrumentalizing, as is the case with the Attorney General's Office, in which we are seeing how a lady who sat at that bank the next day occupies the Attorney General's Office, or how they use the Attorney General's Office without any shame or blush. [[applause]] They've been using it right now. Look! to justify that the president of the government does not have to account for the trips he makes in the Falcon for private things. This is the use of the Attorney General's Office and the Attorney General's Office of the worst and meanest State. You are right in one thing, that we are talking about an absolutely oversized government, and in that I give you every reason because we think the same; but precisely because there is that failure, precisely because we are seeing day by day - and in these days in particular - how a minister, the strong man of the Socialist Party, Minister Ábalos, is permanently lying in a case as bloody as the 'Delcygate', precisely because of all that, do you not want to be able to ensure the democratic quality that we need to demand this government? We are having a gentleman who is vice president of the government and who is now joining as mediator or ally of Junqueras, condemned for sedition and embezzlement of public revenues! That's what's happening in Spain! It is therefore necessary for a committee to evaluate and update the measures relating to transparency, which have already lapsed, as well as those aimed at strengthening the quality of our democratic system. It is necessary because today, unfortunately, there is no separation of powers in Spain. In addition to that Commission, we clearly support the creation of the Commission on Gender Violence: Why? Among other things, because that State Pact against Gender Violence was approved by the People's Parliamentary Group, the People's Party Government, and it was financed by more than EUR 1 billion. It is not just any pact, but, once again, both the Minister and the Vice-President of the current Government have not implemented one of the measures contained in the State Pact against Gender Violence. And sadly and sadly we all know that there were fifty-five victims in 2019 and, unfortunately, we already have ten victims in 2020. Other key commissions are children and adolescents, road safety and the Toledo Pact. How is it not going to be fundamental if we are now knowing how the number of social security contributors is falling more and more, how the unemployed are becoming more and more? In some ways, the Toledo Pact Commission, where pensions have always been dealt with, will have to be renewed, a problem that our elders today are looking at with great concern, and that young people do not see a future in them. How can we not support the creation of this Commission? The SDG Commission, which is also a recommendation of the United Nations and covers countless issues, is also essential. And I agree with the creation of the Spanish Broadcasting Commission, of course I do. Unfortunately, we have been assisting, since the members of the motion of censure took - legally, but took it away - the government to the People's Party, what have we found? We have met with a television absolutely at the foot of the current Government; with a Spanish Radio Television that appoints a single Administrator who is not now controlled by the Governing Council or the Control Commission until it is created; with a Radio Television that is, at the moment, absolutely at the service of the Government. Yesterday we saw with the call of the Galician elections the last example, or the penultimate example, because I am convinced that at this hour, after the Television, there will have been some other example. And they are working for and for Knight to have an absolute presence on Spanish Television and permanently criticizing the management that President Feijóo has had in the three absolute majorities. But it is also a television that is now classified as the most manipulated and sectarian of all public television in the European Union. It is a real scandal the submission of the sole Spanish Radiotelevision administrator to the Spanish Government, to each and every minister and to the parliamentary groups that support it. [[Applauds]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group will support the creation of each and every one of the committees, which we consider to be fundamental and of interest, because from our position what we are trying to avoid is that this Government continues, as it has so far, to use and manipulate the institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Montesinos. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I am speaking from the bench, if you will, because this debate does not give much more. Three questions. First, this is a traditional initiative, which is always brought to the beginning of the legislature and which aims to make it possible to set up the commissions that will house the fundamental work of this Congress of Deputies, the work of controlling the government, the work of contact with the collectives that have more to do with the difficulties and challenges of the citizens and the impulse to government action. Therefore, a traditional initiative that is brought to this House with the traditional criteria of coherence with the structure of government and efficiency. We are not going to set up any more Commission that was not set up already and in operation during Legislature XII and Legislature XIII. We understand, however, the frustrations of the far right, a double frustration. The far right in this House is frustrated because Parliament will decide that it will work to combat gender-based violence, to try to follow the objectives of sustainable development, to expand rights, for children and adolescents, to improve the democratic quality in this country; the first frustration of the far right. Second frustration of the ultra-right: it seems that they do not agree that the majority of the Spaniards represented in this House - I insist, the majority of the Spaniards represented in this House - have not voted for the ultra-right candidates to the chairmanships of the committees. Hey, did you expect anything else? They call it a veto; we call it democratic hygiene. [[Applauds]] In short, their frustrations are our satisfactions, to say the least. And as for the sanctity, that ultra-right theater with the cowardly right and the veil right, those love and disloves between the right already bore us. We're just asking you not to entertain us. We are in a hurry to start talking about our proposal for a law, to expand rights, on the right to euthanasia; we want to talk about wages, we want to talk about civil servants, we want to talk about the improvement of pensions in this country. Do me a favor and work on what matters. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Simancas. In one minute we shall begin the voting on the nine Committees. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. Firstly, we voted on the proposal to set up a committee to monitor and evaluate the agreements of the Toledo Pact. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 262 against, 50 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u19	The establishment of the Commission was approved. - REQUEST FROM THE SOCIALIST, POPULAR PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS AT THE UNITED NATIONS CONGRESS AND CONFEDERAL POWERS TO COMMON PODEM-GALICIA, ESTABLISHING A COMMISSION ON MONITORING AND EVALUATION OF THE AGREEMENTS OF THE STATE COVENANT IN THE FIELD OF GENERAL VIOLENCE. [[File number 155/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u20	Proposal for the establishment of a Commission to monitor and evaluate the agreements of the State Pact on Gender Violence. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 263 against, 51.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u21	The proposal to set up the said Commission was approved. - REQUEST FROM THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS, POPULAR IN THE CONGRESS AND CONFEDERAL OF THE UNITED NATIONS WE CAN COMMONLY PADEM-GALICIA IN COMMON, ESTABLISHING A COMMISSION FOR THE AUDITORY OF DEMOCRATIC QUALITY, THE FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION AND INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL REFORMS. [[File number 155/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u22	Proposal for the establishment of a Commission for the audit of democratic quality, the fight against corruption and institutional and legal reforms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 263 against, 51.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u23	The proposal to set up the Commission was approved. - REQUEST FROM THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS, POPULAR IN THE CONGRESS AND CONFEDERAL OF THE UNITED NATIONS WE CAN COMMONLY PADEM-GALICIA IN COMMON, ESTABLISHING A COMMITTEE ON THE RIGHTS OF CHILDREN AND ADOLESCENCE. [[File number 155/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u24	Proposal for the establishment of a Committee on the Rights of Children and Adolescents. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour 262 against 51.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u25	The establishment of the Commission was approved. - REQUEST FROM THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS, POPULAR IN THE CONGRESS AND CONFEDERAL OF THE UNITED NATIONS WE CAN COMMONLY PADEM-GALICIA IN COMMON, ESTABLISHING A COMMISSION ON VIAL SECURITY. [[File number 155/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u26	Proposal for a Commission on road safety. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 263 against, 51.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u27	The proposal to set up the said Commission was approved. - REQUEST FROM THE SOCIALIST, POPULAR PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS AT THE UNITED NATIONS CONGRESS AND CONFEDERAL WE CAN COMMONLY PADEM-GALICIA TO ESTABLISH A JOINT COMMISSION FOR THE STUDY OF THE PROBLEMS OF ADICTIONS. [[File number 155/000003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u28	Proposal to set up a Joint Commission to study the problems of addictions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour 262 against 51.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u29	The proposal to set up the Joint Committee was approved. - REQUEST FROM THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS, POPULAR AT THE UNITED NATIONS CONGRESS AND CONFEDERAL WE CAN COMMONLY PADEM-GALICIA IN COMMON, ESTABLISHING A JOINT COMMISSION ON Parliamentary CONTROL OF THE RTVE CORPORATION AND THEIR SOCIETY. [[File number 155/000003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u30	Proposal for the creation of a Joint Parliamentary Control Commission of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and its societies. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes cast; 314 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u31	The establishment of the Joint Commission was unanimously approved. - REQUEST FROM SOCIALIST GROUPS, POPULAR IN THE CONGRESS AND CONFEDERAL OF THE UNITED NATIONS MAY COMMUNITY PODEM-GALICIA IN COMMON, ESTABLISHING A COMMISSION REQUEST FROM THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS FOR THE COORDINATION AND FOLLOW-UP OF THE SPANISH STRATEGY TO ACHIEVE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES [[SDGs]] [[File number 155/000003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u32	Proposal for the creation of a Joint Commission for the coordination and follow-up of the Spanish strategy to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour 263 against 51.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u33	The establishment of the Joint Commission is hereby approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u34	We continue with the agenda item on the full debate on the proposal of the Regional Assembly of Murcia for the reform of Organic Law 4/1982 of 9 June of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia. To support this item on the agenda, we have three representatives of the Murcia Regional Assembly who are members of the delegation that will defend the proposal, whom I welcome on behalf of the House. For the presentation of the initiative, he has the floor first of all Don Diego Conesa Alcaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Let me first say hello to the President of the Regional Assembly, to the regional deputies, to people displaced from the Murcia Region, and also a warm greeting to the comrades of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said in this House last September, the elimination of stumbling blocks must be the spearhead for democratic regeneration. I am aware that there is a lot of legal controversy about the shape of the hanging, and that there are many opinions in favour of and against leading jurists, but, ladies and gentlemen, beyond legal opinions, which are respectable, of course, we are faced with a political decision. It is true that strangulation does not give impunity, but it is also true that it is a privilege that is difficult to justify today. Stuffing is an misunderstood legal figure, generating suspicions in the social majority, it is impossible to pedagogy its democratic utility, but that utility cannot be above the current democratic urgency, so we have to show unequivocal signs of regenerating will, especially in the Murcia Region. Ladies and gentlemen, all of us in this House today are aware of the tiredness of citizenship with political and economic corruption, which generates enormous mistrust of our daily work - totally unjustified in the vast majority of cases - and it is urgent to take action on democratic values and public ethics to regain that lost credibility, especially in the Murcia region, shaken by cases of corruption affecting dozens of public offices and even its presidents. Ladies and gentlemen, nobility obliges us to recall today that it was the Socialist Parliamentary Group of the Murcia Region that, in November 2015, promoted the modification of the autonomous status in order to eliminate the outbursts, but that the People's Party at that time blocked it with its abstention. Again, in April 2017, the Socialist Parliamentary Group once again promoted the elimination of the outbursts of regional deputies and members of the Governing Council, which was then, yes, unanimously adopted in the Murcia Regional Assembly, and today we defend in these Courts for the third time. I hope that it will be the final one, because of the effective elimination of the sufferings in the region of Murcia and also because it will be a sign that this legislature has continuity and progress, which would be good for Spain and therefore very good and necessary for my region. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists of the Murcia Region are proud to have promoted in our country the elimination of the form of suffocation, which was supported by the Parliaments of the Canary Islands, Cantabria and the Balearic Islands and also by this House, which voted mostly in favour of eliminating them. From this historic rostrum I would like to congratulate the canaries: they have eliminated the privilege of afloats in their status; this, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the paths to follow. And today I come to ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to process and approve, as is mandatory, this initiative of the Murcia Regional Assembly to amend Articles 25 and 33 of the statute of autonomy. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also allow myself to use this moment to ask you as one more Spanish, as I told you a few months ago, to address with the utmost speed the reform of Article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, in order to prevent criminal cases for corruption from going to trial and being dismissed and filed, as has happened repeatedly in the Murcia Region. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act has done a lot of damage to the reputational image of my region and its justice, even though it has been good for some regional presidents. The region of Murcia, my region, is today in the financial, social and environmental uvi. Twenty-five years of harmful autonomic management have brought us here. But for this reason, in line with my request to amend section 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, it is essential to provide it with more resources in justice, material and human, in order to help recover the social pulse and better combat the cancer of political and economic corruption. We need more and better justice in my region, and I am sending you this request because I have full confidence in this Parliament's commitment to transparency, democratic regeneration and social justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u36	Mr. Conesa, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u37	I'm finishing up, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the elimination of drilling in the Murcia region would have to be a reality. I hope that soon you and we can continue to look into the eyes of the women and men of our land and tell them that we have fulfilled our word of more transparency, more democratic regeneration and more social justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Conesa Alcaraz. To present this initiative, in second place, you have the word Don Joaquín Segado Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you for your kind welcome. I also greet the delegation of deputies from the Murcia Region, headed by Don Alberto Castillo, our President of the Regional Assembly. In just three years we have come to the Congress of Deputies three times to defend the reform of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia in two articles to suppress the outbursts of regional deputies and members of the Governing Council, including its president, a reform of the statute of autonomy that affects fifty-six people of the Region of Murcia, a region where we live one and a half million inhabitants. During this period of time the political position of the People's Party has not changed, we continue to defend the need to review and scale up the number of our country's outbursts with regard to social reality and current political reality, and we do so by calling for a national debate to be opened in this House, and not through partial reforms, such as that of our status of autonomy, which, despite this, we support today from this rostrum. This reform is a patch, first, because it affects only the politicians of the Region of Murcia and, therefore, creates asymmetry, a new difference between autonomous communities in terms of measures of democratic regeneration, and, secondly, because it is also pending in this House to take into consideration the reform of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia, which is much more ambitious, which responds to this issue and also, and above all, to other matters, which are the ones that really concern the citizens of our region, such as water, autonomous financing or the Mar Menor. Ladies and gentlemen, what we would like to be discussing here today is why the Spanish Government refuses to invest a single euro in the recovery of the Mar Menor. We would like to see a discussion in this House about why the Government of Pedro Sánchez does not allow the Government of the Murcia Region to take on a loan, already pre-accredited by the European Investment Bank, to act already in the Minor Sea and in the face of the situation resulting from the serious floods that we have suffered in recent months. We would like to see talk in this House about why the Government of Spain is again delaying the arrival of the AVE in the Murcia Region, now more than fifteen months. We would like to talk in this House about why we have a third divisional justice in the Murcia Region. From this rostrum we would also like to ask the Government of Spain, Mrs Montero, to explain why they are resisting the revision of an unjust financing system, which is seriously damaging and which has been penalising the inhabitants of the Murcia Region for years. We would also like to know why the Government of Spain is left with 85 million euros belonging to all the Batians by refusing to pay the 2017 VAT settlement. In any case, we are back here again to talk about what we have been defending for three years and only five months, which shows that Parliament's legislative clock has been paralysed for too long. We have experienced a situation of instability and uncertainty caused by the Socialist Party. It makes no sense that the president, the councillors and the autonomous deputies of Murcia can be tried by ordinary courts and that, within the same country, other politicians who today maintain their status as strikers despite being disqualified by judgment of the qualified court are whitewashed, legitimized and who even receive the official visit of Mr Sánchez, who should be the main valiant of our Constitution and our rule of law. [[Applauds]] There is no point in suppressing squabbles with the excuse of regeneration if, from Moncloa, disabled autonomous presidents are legitimized. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall end by calling for a national debate in this House which will rigorously review those in our country. Before adopting this legal reform we should seek the formula that prevents Spain from both speeds also in the area of democratic regeneration and in the relationship of politicians with justice. If we want to be honest with the citizens, let us not turn what must be a serious and rigorous change into a product of political propaganda. Ladies and gentlemen, if the rulers of one region are treated differently from the rest, the result will be that the governed will also be in unequal conditions. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u40	Thank you, Mr. Segado. Thirdly, to present the initiative as well, he has the word don Juan José Molina Gallardo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues of the Murcia delegation, good afternoon to you all. It is almost becoming a tradition for a delegation of parliamentarians from the Murcia Regional Assembly to come to the beginning of each legislature to call for an end to the outbursts. Believe me, we're happy to come and do it every time it takes, but it wouldn't be bad if the third - which, by the way, is this - was the one that was won. The last time I came I spoke to you about inviolability, immunity and stifling, three concepts that we have to distinguish very clearly because, although the first two relate to the protection that both democratic institutions and their legitimate representatives must have to avoid any kind of political persecution, stifling is a later addition that we can hardly consider as a protection, but rather as a privilege inherited from medieval customs where lords and plebeians ruled by different justices. It involves a parallel system of justice, with higher bodies than those to be sent out when they are investigated for any crime, higher bodies such as the Supreme Court and higher courts of justice, whose members are elected by a body - the General Council of the Judiciary - whose members, in turn, are elected by political parties. And there, ladies and gentlemen, we close the virtuous circle: we politicians choose the judges who can judge us. And, let us not be fooled, as long as there is suffocation, the resistance to cede political control when it comes to appointing the judges of the higher courts will be enormous. And in those we are, betraying Montesquieu and trampling the separation of powers one day yes and another too. In addition, the figure of the drill presupposes that we do not trust ordinary examining magistrates, either because we understand that they can succumb to pressures or, even worse, because we think that some, eager for notoriety, can understand that a politician is an easy and good prey. This argument is a grave lack of respect for the filter that our basic judges have been doing, which in recent years have defended the dignity of our system and our rule of law at the cost of great sacrifices. As soon as the investigating judge is told that he is investigating an offence that a person is being held in detention, he must refer the case to the competent higher body, even if there are other defendants who are not held in detention, thus losing the case and on many occasions the work of many years. This drag brings with it also a perverse consequence, and it is that the unpunished, who are thus projected into that higher court, lose the right to review their case in the event that they are convicted, which, logically, creates clear discrimination in relation to the rest of the citizens. In other words, the obvious argument that squatting is not a privilege because the squatters lose that second instance what it implies in daily practice is unjustified discrimination for ordinary or non-squatters, who are dragged into it, in quotes, not privilege. Ladies and gentlemen, if those of us who legislate and build the system do not trust ordinary justice and its judges, tell me why the rest of the citizens should do so. And one more consideration. Once granted the supplication by the Parliament in question because it understands that there is no political persecution, what sense does the subsequent privilege of a special court have? Ladies and gentlemen, we are a democratic singularity in this matter; there is nothing like it in the democracies around us, where this figure is minimal or non-existent. The best way to curb populism, and more in the times ahead, is to show society that its representatives are the first to renounce privileges. And the later we modernize our institutions, the stronger those who do not want to reform them, but simply colonize them. As Aristotle said, democracy originated in the belief that, being equal men in a certain aspect, they are in everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Molina. In turn of fixing positions, I have the floor, by the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u43	Thank you very much, President. I'll step in from the seat because I'll do it briefly. Good afternoon, authorities and representatives of the institutions of the Community of the Region of Murcia. You bring to this House the reform of your status of autonomy in order to abolish the prerogative of regional deputies and members of the Government, by which you cannot be arrested or detained for alleged criminal acts committed in the territory of the Murcia Region, except flagrante delicto, while the High Court decides on your indictment, prosecution and, where appropriate, trial, or the Supreme Court when the alleged criminal acts have been committed outside the territory of the Murcia Region. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliamentary Group will not stand in the way of the amendments they seek, concerning the abolition of the prerogatives of the members of Parliament and the autonomous government. If you consider it to be so for your institutions, we will not oppose it, but without this asymmetry that you preach for your institutions being a necessary cause of a subsequent request for equalization of the legal regimes of other territories or even of the whole State. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u44	Thank you, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u45	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the delegation of the Assembly of the Region of Murcia, fellow citizens, Members of the Region of Murcia who are here, once again and there are already three, this initiative to reform the Statute of Murcia is discussed here, and despite the supposed support that it receives from the majority of this House, it comes back again and again, in this case for a main reason which is the paralysis in which this House has been subdued since the rule of Mr Sánchez. Today it does so again and we hope that it will finally be the final one. This initiative, as you know, is a demand of Citizens, we are discussing it here because Citizens in the Region of Murcia put it on the table, put it as a condition to give stability to a Government; and today, moreover, after having done that, it governs in the Region of Murcia. My colleague Juan José Molina, Member of the Assembly of the Region of Murcia, has already indicated this very well: where Citizens rule things change. It has already been said on countless occasions: drilling is an anomaly. It is an anomaly of a modern constitutional system such as that we have in our country, where the principle of equality and the right to a judge predetermined by law is the one that must inform the entire procedural system as a whole. As you know, Spain is one of the countries where there are the most outbursts: politicians, judges, public officials, prosecutors; the outbursts are thousands in Spain and this seems to be a rather obvious failure of the principle of equality to which we referred, especially with regard to public representatives, to politicians. But it seems that in this we are beginning to go in the right direction and, look, if there is one thing clear is that the lever for this has been Citizens, we start with the Region of Murcia, but there are already approved proposals to suppress the stumbling blocks in the Statute of La Rioja - it was also at the request of Citizens - and it will be carried out as a commitment of the Governments of Citizens in Madrid, Andalusia and also Castile and León. The citizens are tired - this word has been said a lot here - already of the privileges of politicians and it is normal, besides the privilege of suffocation today has no explanation or justification, and therefore it is exceptional also in the countries of our environment, it is a figure completely alien to the reality that we live today, it is a figure designed for sociopolitical realities of the past. Today, fortunately, the exercise of the parliamentary function can be exercised in freedom, with publicity and with security, and therefore the figure of strangulation makes no sense. The real substantive debate that is on the table when we talk about the outbursts is that of the politicization of justice. If a citizen commits an alleged crime, he or she is tried by his or her ordinary judge; instead, if a politician commits an alleged crime, he or she is tried by a court, either by the Superior of Justice of his or her community or by the Supreme Court, whose members have also been appointed by an organ that is strongly politicized, as is evident, by the way, and we are reminded every day of the Socialist Party and the People's Party. And now also the new caste of Podemos agrees with the politicization of justice. If we add to that that the current State Attorney General a month ago was sitting in that bank and was Justice Minister of Sánchez, lords of the Socialist Party, you can be calm because, if they ever prosecute you, you will surely have on your side the State Attorney General and possible like-minded magistrates of the court that judges you and, of course, if in that process the State Advocate is in person, do not doubt - right, dear Edmundo? - that of course you will have on your side. [[pointing to the blue bench]] Some of the public representatives, Members of Parliament, who are here, are also very well aware of this, the independent politicians. Finally, it seems that there is unanimity or a majority in this House that is prepared to suppress the outbursts in Murcia and that is good news, but, I insist, beyond that particular issue, we must enter into the substantive debate, one of the most serious scourges our country has: the politicization of justice. Unfortunately, we have seen this clearly when we talked about crimes committed by politicians, very serious crimes in recent times. The clearest - it is clear - is that of the Catalan independenceist politicians who have committed a sedition crime from the Catalan government and institutions. Here, sincerely, I am grateful, Mr Simancas, that you come to give lessons in democratic hygiene, vetoing constitutional parties when you bow to convicted criminals - to convicted criminals - such as President Torra and Mr Junqueras. You with those have no democratic hygiene, every day you bow to them, and you are criminals, criminals with all the letters, condemned by justice. I say this in case you can fine-tune the concept of democratic hygiene. [[Applauds]] During this time you have devoted yourselves to giving more and more instruments to these criminals convicted of justice so that when you try again what you have already tried to do you can get it and have it easier, and you will be the culprits of that because they have said that you will do it again, that I do not say so. They're nodding their heads like saying, "We'll do it again." In the meantime you are giving them all the instruments, among them surely the Council of Justice of Catalonia, which is one of the parts of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia that Mr.Iceta wants to recover so that they can appoint the judges who later judge them, or not, because if they have appointed them, of course, it will be quite difficult for them to judge them. Finally, unfortunately, we will see all the Spaniards. In any case, today is the time to approve again, and even for the third time, this very important first step in the suppression of the fighting in Murcia and to end something that has been the fundamental objective of Citizens: to end the depoliticization of justice. We hope that this time, once this approval procedure has been passed, the presentation will be designated and work will begin to complete this reform as soon as possible and will finally be approved by this House.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u46	Mr. Mirror-Saavedra, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u47	I'm done right now, Madam President. Finally, while some are thinking of giving more instruments of immunity to law-abiding politicians, some want politicians more equal to the rest of the citizens before the law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Mirror-Saavedra. Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, a greeting to the authorities and representatives of the Government of the Murcia Region for being here today defending their proposal. It is true that this is the third time that the proposal has come to this House and that it is time to be able to move forward in the debate already held in the regional Parliament, but I wanted to put one thing to you. This is not a legal debate of experts in which both have different positions and nuances. No, this is a debate that clearly connects with politics, with the quality of our democracy, with the twenty-first century and which clearly serves to take the prevention of corruption seriously. It is a debate that fundamentally interferes with equality before the law and with the trust that we all have or should have in justice. These are the parameters of the debate that bring us today from the Region of Murcia. There are two essential issues. First of all, the maintenance of social strenghts does not understand anyone. When no one understands it, it is very possible that we will not explain ourselves or have no explanation for maintaining a situation that citizens do not understand. Secondly, as has already been said, it is not acceptable in our European environment, where this figure is exceptional and has nothing to do with how it is being applied here in our country. If citizens do not understand the stumbling blocks, much less do they understand the consequences of the stumbling blocks. Here everyone has come and told his book. To him who has preceded me in the use of the word Citizens I say that, if he wants, I tell him of the cases of corruption of the Community of Madrid, which is where I come from and where you support the Government. [[Applauds]] If you want, we do that, but what we come here to understand is that this debate is important - and it is very grateful for the debate brought to us by the representatives of the Murcia Region - that it is important to put it in its terms, that citizens do not understand it, that it is not contradictory to our European regime and that it is really impossible to sustain and maintain. Therefore, not only do we have to approve the proposal today, but this debate needs to be broadened. It has to be state-wide and we have to consider it with the parameters of modernity, equality before justice, prevention of corruption and listening to citizens. We must renew or open the debate for all the institutions of our country, which cannot sustain or sustain a situation of these characteristics and their effects. Of course, we are going to vote in favour. Our MP Oscar Urralburu from More Country supported and fought for this initiative. We believe that it is important for the Murcia Region and we thank you for the debate and the proposals that you bring us here today and that will certainly serve us all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u51	Thank you, President. The Republican Parliamentary Group will not prevent the reform that today the Murcia Regional Assembly brings to this House on its status of autonomy. We will not get to the bottom of the matter, because it is up to the Murcia Regional Assembly itself to determine its competences and reforms. We understand that the sovereignty of the citizens of Murcia rests with your Parliament, which is why we must respect it. We will therefore vote in favour of this initiative, because we respect the freedom of peoples to self-regulate and decide for themselves how they want to organize their territory, their powers, their administrations and their rights and duties. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u53	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to welcome the Commissioners of the Regional Assembly and the other authorities of the Murcia Region who are accompanying us this afternoon. As has already been said and repeated, this is the third time that we have discussed this initiative to amend the Statute of the Region of Murcia and, consequently, to eliminate the outbursts of deputies and members of the regional government. It might seem like a minor issue, but I assure you it is at all. According to data from the General Council of the Judiciary, the Region of Murcia leads the sad ranking of the accused for corruption with fifty-six natural persons and twenty-eight legal persons, and it is precisely in this context that we could define as systemic corruption, where the figure of drilling has been used as a privilege to delay the imputation of certain political leaders and to artificially extend the judicial processes, even to prescribe some of them. He said it's the third time we've discussed this initiative here in the Congress of Deputies. In the Confederal Group of the United Nations We can usually say that important things do not come to the first, but we also know that perseverance and coherence end up having a reward, and if in 2017 and 2019 the reform of this status of autonomy could not be completed fundamentally by electoral advances, we are convinced that with the horizon of a stable legislature, a legislature of progress, we will achieve, among other social and democratic progress, the elimination of the old outbursts. In any case, they say that there is no harm in not coming, and if for something this waiting time has served is for each of us to be portrayed, and in this portrait, I am sorry to say, the People's Party does not come out quite well. So let me throw a little hemerotheque to understand your comings and goings in this debate that we are dealing with today. In November 2015, this debate already came to the Regional Assembly and the People's Party was the only group in the Assembly that did not vote in favour. At the time, it was about protecting former regional president Pedro Antonio Sánchez, who was related to the Auditorio case and the Púnica plot. In April 2017 Pedro Antonio Sánchez resigns as president of the Region of Murcia by being charged with crimes of fraud, prevarication, misappropriation and documentary falsity, and the People's Party then promises to vote in favour of the suppression of the embargoes to save its pact with citizens' partners. Well, in September 2017, the reform of the Autonomy Statute of the Region of Murcia comes for the first time to this Congress and the People's Party, despite what it promised in Murcia, here it abstains. Citizens, of course, lower their heads, let them be, and they continue to hold them to this day, where they no longer hold not only the People's Party but a government controlled by the ultra-right. [[Applauds]] In September 2019 the reform of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia returns to Congress and this time the People's Party votes in favour. What happened between September 2017 and September 2019? What has happened is that the National Court has condemned the People's Party for profiting from the Gürtel plot and has credited the existence of a B-box of the People's Party. This is how you come to this debate, reluctantly, forced by the facts, dragging your feet, but no one forgets that you have done everything possible and impossible to keep this reform from coming forward and no one forgets that you have done everything and impossible to cover up the corruption of leaders of your party and hinder the action of justice. They did so with the reform of the Criminal Prosecution Act in 2015 to shorten the period of investigation to six months. And do you know who was one of the main beneficiaries of the reform of Lecrim? For the former president of the Region of Murcia Pedro Antonio Sánchez, who could not be tried by the case Pasarela having expired some deadlines impossible to meet. But that's what it was all about, cheating on justice to cover up decades of public plunder and plunder. On Tuesday, by the way, the Confederal Group of the United Nations We can bring to this rostrum the repeal of this reform trap in order to avoid the impunity involved in the filing of these cases and to facilitate the work of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, corruption costs us the discredit of the institutions because they erode the values that must govern them and because it weakens the trust that citizens place in them, but it also involves a pool of money and public resources. The Autonomous Community of the Region of Murcia has a debt of 10 billion; of those 10 billion, 3000 can be attributed to a situation of autonomous under-financing, but the rest - let us not deceive or deceive anyone - have to do with a policy of public works and over-costs that eliminates illegality. In fact, on 16 March another former regional president, Ramón Luis Valcárcel, will go to a court in Murcia as investigated by the case of the desalinator of Escombreras, a plot in which, according to the report of the UDEF, the regional government of the People's Party would have charged the debts of a company, ACS, of Mr Florentino Pérez, to the regional budgets, which has meant a hole of 600 million in the public arks of the community. This is the legacy of the People's Party in the Murcia Region, a legacy of looting of the public that translates into less social protection and that makes, for example, Murcia the only autonomous community that has not recovered the health expenditure prior to the crisis and that, in addition, persists in these cuts, with fewer health personnel, less public offices, more waiting lists and, ultimately, more people who die waiting for a diagnosis or an operation. Corruption, therefore, is not only a procedural situation for certain leaders of the People's Party, it is a rope that binds us to face our challenges as a society and to guarantee the rights of citizens. Of course, we are not naive and we know that the suppression of the drilling itself is an insufficient measure to dismantle the client networks of the People's Party and its corruptiles, but if the suppression of the drilling serves, at least, for no other president or former president of the Murcia Region to mock the action of justice, we will have made some progress. Our vote will therefore be in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. Mr Gestoso de Miguel has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to express my condolences to my colleague Joaquín Robles, because we have just heard that his mother has passed away. He had to be here occupying this rostrum. What brings us here today is not a simple reform of a statute of autonomy of a region of Spain. No, what brings us here is a career of the politicians of that part of Spain in front of the citizens tired of not solving their problems and tired of their compositions and their corruption. This reform is a consequence of the indecent and indecent behavior of a president, Pedro Antonio Sánchez, of the People's Party, who refused to resign despite the very serious cases of corruption that stalked him and for which he continues to be prosecuted. And don't come to me, gentlemen of the People's Party, with the story of your argumentary of the twenty files of this character, because I know them well and there are even traffic fines in them. This subject was freed from one of the pending charges - for an idea to be made, the Pasarela case - not because he was guilty or innocent but because of a legal trifle, guilt of the prosecutor, who did not do his job and passed the six-month period of instruction that Rajoy instituted for his self-protection. The truth is that it was and is one of the most indecent and embarrassing issues of current politics. But Antonio Sánchez is still in Miami and continues to be prosecuted by the Auditorio, Punica and Guarderia cases for extremely serious crimes of fraud, prevarication, misappropriation and falsehood, among others. And, precisely to protect you, you refused to support at first in Murcia this statutory reform, which you do today. I remind them it cost, because they abstained for the first time. That is why we have to place the laws that we have adopted here in its context, and that of this was the corruption of a popular president who remained in office as a koala and to whom you all supported, from Mr Rajoy to Casado, singing his excellences in rallies and chats, in spite of the buchonous evidence of his corruption, because it is millions of euros that have disappeared from the pockets of the Spaniards for all the cases we have just mentioned. [[Applauds]] Of course, VOX is going to support this repeal of privileges for politicians with the outbursts, as we hope you will all support the much more ambitious reforms that we will bring to this House in order to put an end to more outbursts and privileges that fill the Spaniards so much. Let us hope that you will support them with the same joy and determination as these, because the reforms of VOX will go to all of you. And I say to everyone also referring to the crowd of blue armchairs that hardly fit in the front row of this Chamber and that today they are not. [[Applauds]] That we support this statutory reform does not mean that we are going to support the later body that came out of the Murtian Parliament, and that with such joy and self-completion they congratulated themselves on the condemnation of the radical ideological policies of the left of future generations of Spaniards living in Murcia. Something fails in a reform of a rule of principle when, ruling the right, the happiest is the left, and the picture of the moment is the snapshot of what we have denounced since VOX: the consensus progresses in which you are all but us, who are the only opposition to your dictatorship of communion with mill wheels of the politically correct. [[Applauds]] Spain never made any more sense than they like to talk about, such as the North Korean status that they are going to bring us in the near future; maximum consensus, extreme cakemaking, and freedom, none. All the ideological laws of the left, and even those of the separatists, are in this statute that will make the delights of Rufián - Mrs. Arrimadas - of Rufián, because according to Citizens and the People's Party the sovereignty of the region emanates from the people of Murcia. Murcia is a nation. It's not a joke, does it ring a bell? For a sinister joke, but they have seen that even those of Esquerra Republicana were happy and happy claiming the nation that they are going to give them the PP and Citizens in Murcia. [[Applauds]] I even tell you that affective-sexual education and the right to legislate the gender entity appear expressly in the statute; nor is it a joke. This is what motivated us to move forward in VOX with the proposal of a parental pin to avoid the intrusion of cultural Marxism into the brain of our childhood. [[Rumors.-Applause.-Various Members: Bravo!]] The People's Party and Citizens want to fly the Region of Murcia using all the dynamite supplied by the left, and that is the spirit and the letter of the statute that only VOX dares to fight and denounce, because there is no demand among the more self-governing bats - we feel Spanish and we always cared about a pepper having more self-governing - nor do we want new skills. Politicians again create problems where there are none. [[Applauds]] When talking about water, the statute means all the terminology of the most radical ecology and places itself in the gardens of scarcity and drought, when they could have demanded, already put, the interconnection of all the basins. We must not talk about solidarity but about justice. Water is a national good that belongs to all Spaniards and not to the inhabitants of a Taifa. [[Applauds]] Tell them, please, not only to the PSOE but also to the PP leader in Castile-La Mancha, who yesterday joined the water war to liquidate the transfer of the Tagus with the left-wing argumentary that so many complexes generate them. That is why the issue of parliamentary immunity that we bring here today is a smokescreen to present, on the right and left, as regenerators those who have brought to the Region of Murcia the most despicable odds of corruption, absenteeism, poverty, school dropout and ecological ruin with the Mar Menor; that is, together with those who hold the record of the figures stolen from the Spanish, from the left side of this plenary, the Socialist Party of Sanitary Cords to freedom, but not to the trinque, and who have just appointed as government delegate in Murcia a mayor accused of crimes of prevarication and embezzlement, with which we see that these reforms and their commitment to corruption are zero. They put the foxes to watch the chickens and then teach the rest of them. [[Applauds]] I finish, Madam President, here Spain does add up, and add up to four; two of them with a horrific past with which VOX will never add up to surrender our homeland to its lack of values; the other two only worry about where the wind comes from every morning, and also agree on fines and bonuses to be in the kidnapping of inoperative commissions. One thing I assure you, if VOX had had representation then in the Assembly of Murcia it would never have arrived here, which we will face by all legal and parliamentary means within our reach, because what is at stake is being free of its yoke, and VOX cannot conceive of Spain as a nation without freedom. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u56	Thank you, Mr. Gesto. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Pedreño Molina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome the representatives of the Bureau of the Regional Assembly, its President, and especially my fellow Members of the People's Parliamentary Group, in particular its spokesman. Today the chance, or rather Mr. Pedro Sánchez's walk to reach Moncloa, has caused this first ordinary plenary session of this legislature to debate the reform of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia, a partial reform of Organic Law 4/1982. Indeed, this is already the third time that this has been discussed in Congress since the unanimous adoption in April 2017 in the Murcia Regional Assembly of the elimination of forbearances for members of the Governing Council and for deputies, amending articles 25 and 33 of this autonomy statute of 1982. Thus, it was brought here, to this House, in September 2017, in the XII Legislature, in September 2019, XIII Legislature, and today, February 2020, in the XIV Legislature, that is why I will not enter into the content of the articles that today are modified on the elimination of special drilling because they have already been explained and, moreover, they are based on Article 71 of our Constitution. Mr Conesa, of the Socialist Group, and also Mr Sánchez Serna, said that the justification for the elimination of these outbursts in the Murcia region stems from a loss of confidence on the part of citizens. By the way, with the intervention of Mr Gestoso, from VOX, I assure you that this to the citizens' ears does mean a huge loss of confidence in the political class. But I assure you, as a citizen of this region of Murcia, that this loss of confidence is not due to the People's Parliamentary Group. This distrust has been generated by PSOE's policies in Murcia and Spain, deceiving citizens with their artificial pacts and government alliances. To this you can add the ERE scandal in Andalusia, the appointment of the former socialist minister as the State Attorney General or the recent announcement of reform of the Criminal Code for the crimes of sedition and rebellion. This is to generate distrust of the citizenry and this is not to meet the social demand for cleanliness and democratic transparency. The spokesman for the People's Group in the Regional Assembly pointed out that this amendment of the statute should be the preamble to the adoption in this House of a full reform text, of the new statute of autonomy of the Region of Murcia. I had the opportunity to participate as a Member in the Regional Assembly for the elaboration of this text, which logically no longer contemplates the special strenghts, but the important thing of this full text, of this new statute of autonomy of the Region of Murcia is that the matters that really matter in the Region of Murcia are validated, because, gentlemen of the Socialist Party and gentlemen of the United We can not fall into the error of distracting the bats with the strenghts. Do you know what the problems are in the Region of Murcia? I'll tell you. The problems in the Murcia Region are not the outbursts, it is the autonomous financing. The Region of Murcia is one of the worst financed in Spain and that is a burden on the management of the services of the administrations in this autonomous community. The problem is the recovery of the Sea Minor. The Mar Menor is a jewel for the Region of Murcia, it is a jewel for Spain, and from the socialist government is blocking a loan from the European Investment Bank worth 320 million euros to undertake actions in the lagoon. The problem is the water, the Tajo-Segura transfer that is now in question and that makes us tremble in the Region of Murcia. In November water was no longer transferred to agriculture, neither in December and now in January we are misled by transferring half of the water when the Central Commission for the exploitation of the Tajo-Segura transfer - the technicians of the ministry - makes a report saying that up to 20 cubic hectometres can be transferred, which is the maximum capacity. The problem is the payment of the €85 million of VAT for 2017, and what was missing is that again it is for the infrastructure of the AVE, an infrastructure that would have to be finished already with the project of the People's Party and that since the Socialist Group entered the government it has been stopped sine die. Do you know why the Murcia Region is suffering so much with the decisions of the current government? I will tell you this: because in the region of Murcia the People's Party has been ruling for twenty-four years and today what we are going to vote on is the amendment of this regulation in order to eliminate stifling. We can vote in favour or against; I am already telling you that the position of the People's Parliamentary Group is to vote again in favour of the elimination of the outbursts in the Murcia Region, but that is not the important thing for the citizens of the Murcia Region. Do you know what's really going on there? What is happening here is that there is an effective People's Party Government, which knows how to manage the talent and resources we have in the Murcia Region, despite the intervention situation of the Government of Spain in this autonomous community. In this effective way of governing by the government that we have in the Region of Murcia all of you and everyone will be able to enjoy a wonderful land, in spite of others, with the best services and in the best conditions. Thank you very much. [[Apclaims.-A lady MP: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedreño. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Sánchez Jódar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome and welcome the President of the Murcia Regional Assembly, the Members of our Regional Parliament and the people who have travelled here to accompany us and, in particular, the colleagues in my group. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me again to defend the reform of the Statute of the Region of Murcia at the first plenary session of this legislature and to do so with the calmness that gives you the certainty that this time it will succeed, that this time it will, and despite, we will make it possible, not without first answering the doubts that the spokesmen of the People's Parliamentary Group on the situation of justice in the Region of Murcia, why is justice in the Region of Murcia, why are the railway infrastructures in the Region of Murcia, why do we have the funding that we have in the Region of Murcia, why is the Mar Menor in the Region of Murcia? What's the problem? The problem is you, gentlemen of the People's Party, the twenty-five years of government of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] That is the problem of the Region of Murcia and that is why the infrastructures of the Region of Murcia are in that situation, because the governments in the nation have changed, but you have always remained there. The citizenry of Murcia has waited too long for this reform when in reality who would really urge is those who we dedicate ourselves to the noble exercise of politics, because the elimination of the figure of strangulation is a modification that brings us closer to society and helps us to reconcile it with politics, that policy with capitals, which is everything for those who have nothing and who are interested in denouncing those who have everything. As the successive governments of the People's Party in our region have done well, and as they have done well since we are ruling, trying to blame all the evils of the region on the new government, forgetting that they have been ruling for more than twenty-five years and with Rajoy for less than two years, but, believe me, I understand you, I understand that you are trying to forget it because you have really been and are so bad years to erase them in the region. It has been a few years since its wasteful, uncontrollable and harmful management has made us leaders in public debt and also in cases of corruption. You, as usual, have sufficed, do not come now to be the victims; it is the victim who suffers, as the victims of gender-based violence suffer, those who deny their government partners. The victimist makes you suffer and you and your victimist government are harming the Region of Murcia and causing the Bats and Bats to suffer, with a public debt of more than 100 billion euros. As for corruption, unfortunately, there are already several studies that claim that Murcia is the region that agglomerates the highest ratio of corruption. In management, you have had to be intervened by late, for not paying your suppliers. What were they doing with the money sent to them? To say that the government of Pedro Sánchez punished them? Now these SMEs and self-employed people will be able to charge because they will be paid directly by the Government of Spain. In the meantime, you are firing the total annual expenditure on high-ranking salaries, which have multiplied by more than 30%; even VOX has had to warn you of the consequences that could bring them if you do not reduce the structure, but, well, we already know that in my region VOX is sometimes also that right-handed coward who barks but does not bite. In my region, the regional tourist data are alarming, being the most lost community of tourists in the country, reducing overnight stays by 25% and 82% in the Manga del Mar Menor, not to mention the successive governments of the People's Party have charged our Mar Menor, twenty-five years ruling with the environmental competences transferred since 1982. Less than a year ago, Mr García Aegean, Mr López Miras and Mr Casado - by the way, whom I do not see here - tried to deceive the citizens of Murcia by claiming that the Mar Menor was better than ever and accusing us of reporting and alerting us of the gravity of the situation of little less than traitors. It has been necessary for millions of fish to die and for everyone to see it so that they recognize once and for all that the Minor Sea is in the ICU and you have carried it with your lies and your continued abandonment of functions. And we still have to listen to his advisor say that to a large extent the crisis we have experienced in the Sea Minor is a landscape crisis; landscape that we have to endure in the region the bats and bats with the parental pin of VOX and the swallows of a government shrunk and managed by the far right. A parental pin that leaves minors helpless and protects pederasts, abusers, xenophobics and racists. That's what they do with their parental pin. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] In my region, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party has ruled for over twenty-five years, the last four thanks to Citizens, therefore, that of democratic hygiene lessons, Mr Espejo, lessons I sell that I do not have. The People's Party is the party that has supported the People's Party in recent years in the worst scourges of corruption, which led to former President Pedro Antonio Sánchez and, for just a few months, thanks to the agreement with VOX and Citizens; as the leaders of the People's Party would say before, a true tripartite of losers who stand by because Citizens have decided to whitewash the corruption of the People's Party, when it is precisely that binomial, corruption-forcing, which has done to society and therefore to its legitimate representatives to question the prerogative of forging, especially because of the numerous issues related to political corruption, which have put into check the credibility of the institutions and of those people who perform the noble work of public service. In the light of this picture, it is urgent to respond to the concern of the citizenry for democratic cleansing and, ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that there is no room or reason to continue to maintain the figure of suffocation. That is why the Socialist Party pushed forward this reform in 2015, as well as in April 2017, where the Socialist Parliamentary Group once again pushed for the elimination of the outbursts. From then until today two long years have passed in which later other communities have done the same and have already managed to eliminate the prerogative of drilling, as is the case with the Canary Islands. And in the region of Murcia what happened these two years? Why, if we start earlier, are we at the same starting point? Because, although the procedure for this reform of the statute was approved in September 2017 - by the way, with the abstention of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party in this House - the mixed, popular and citizen parliamentary groups paralyzed it in the process of amendments calling for postponements of up to eight, ten and thirteen times respectively. The only thing that the PP and Citizens have done at this time has been to request extensions in the enlargement procedure, extensions that the Bureau, then with a majority of the PP and Citizens, approved, thus intentionally delaying the processing of the amendment of points 25 and 33 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia. Really, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, twenty-three consecutive requests week after week for a new deadline for extending amendments to two points?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u60	Mrs. Sánchez, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u61	Were they really necessary? And I say the right because as such they have decided to behave in Citizens, that party that presented itself to the citizenry as a regenerating party, as authentic Mr. Proper of politics, and now you have remained like Captain Spider, embark people with promises of change and regeneration but you remain on earth, in the land of the party that has the most causes for corruption, the People's Party, which you have decided to whiten in order not to change. That, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, is what they are keeping in the Region of Murcia, a exhausted government, installed in victimism and mortgaged by VOX...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u62	Mrs. Sánchez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u63	Thank you. I'll be right there. Believe me, gentlemen of Citizens, if you continue to maintain leadership you will continue to maintain the same results. Maybe they liked it. However, it has something positive. They will not be able to do it worse than Mr Rivera, who lost forty-seven Members. You leave with advantage, you're only going to be able to lose ten. Ladies and gentlemen, this time there is a progressive government, and this time we are going to eliminate the form of stumbling. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u64	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the President of the Murcia Assembly, the entire delegation and the General Secretariat of the Assembly, and of course the three rapporteurs, the three spokespersons who accompanied us and presented this initiative. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u65	We continue with the agenda. The next item is the proposal for a law on euthanasia by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Carcedo Roces has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. Whoever wants to live, who wants to live, but let others die worthily. Euthanasia is not an obligation. I would ask politicians to think at once about the citizens, and above all about the citizens who are in these conditions. These words were spoken by Fernando Cuesta. Fernando Cuesta in his sentences sums up better than anyone the object of this law, and better than any speech we can have in this House. Fernando was an ALS patient, had no cure and saw that he was progressively deteriorating day by day. Finally, he decided to go to Switzerland, not die in his environment and pay himself, because he could, the corresponding services to achieve that worthy death that he wished. Promise me, on the day that I do not remember one of your names, that first day that you see that I confuse you, that I do not know what you call yourselves, please do not wait for me to forget you, that I do not recognize you as children or that I do not recognize you. That day you have to help me leave. These words said, as you know, Maribel Tellaetxe, aware of the cognitive deterioration that would soon reach him and that he would no longer recognize his environment, which would disconnect from the world, and at that time, unable to decide, was not worth living, according to his judgment. The family members thus live with anguish the impossibility of responding to this request, of satisfying their demand, and ask: do we have ignorant politicians, who do not know the suffering of thousands of patients with terminal and degenerative diseases terribly painful mentally and physically and who do not have any cure? Unfortunately, your son can't keep his promise, because his mother ended up dying. I did it because I'm calm; she's stopped suffering. This is how Ángel Hernández fulfilled for love, after thirty years of caring for his wife, Maria José, who begged him and begged him to help him die. His decision cost him the paradoxical accusation of gender-based violence and Angel even suffered imprisonment, short time, but suffered it. This is the reality, this is what is happening to our citizenship, These are three painful cases that, with all due respect, I allow myself to quote here today, because they are more illustrative than anything I can tell you, although I insist that I do so with all due respect to your memory and also to the pain of your families. [[Applauds]] But these people, these affected families, after the end of their families, did not want to keep their arms crossed, wanted to continue pushing, wanted to continue working and fighting so that this right could be enjoyed by other people who found themselves in their own circumstances. These situations challenge us all, no matter where we sit. Human pain has no ideology, human pain and suffering are for all people. [[Applauds]] Human pain is that, human, and it is linked to the human condition. Arrived here, we will debate today for the third time the presentation of this bill. Let us hope that this time the third one will be overtaken and that no other legal triquiñuelas will be found so that this proposal of law will not be transformed into law and published in the Official Gazette of the State. This law simply seeks to regulate a new right and, as Fernando Cuesta rightly said, whoever exercises it, and whoever does not, does not have the obligation to exercise it. It is a law whose regulation goes beyond decriminalization in the Criminal Code of aid to die decently. It is a law that regulates a procedure by which a new right is established for persons in this situation to decide or not to seek help in dying when they suffer an incurable disease, a disease that is not of immediate death and that is causing them suffering and pain that, in their way of understanding, their human condition is unbearable for their dignity, for their physical or moral integrity, and which they also consider to violate their human condition. Therefore, this is a law that regulates a new right. A new right that must be established in an orderly manner, with all legal and health guarantees. This new right is based on three great laws - at three I dare to call them great - of our country. The first is the Spanish Constitution, which regulates fundamental rights, such as the dignity of the person, the higher value of freedom, the right to life and to physical and moral integrity, ideological and conscientious freedom, and above all the freedom that surrounds our entire Magna Charter. Also Act No. 41/2002 of 14 November 2002 regulating the autonomy of the patient, which states that it is the liberty of the person to decide on his or her treatment, of course, being previously informed. Finally, our Criminal Code, which so far penalizes the assistance that can be provided to people in these circumstances, albeit with mitigating factors. But compassionate legislation must take these situations into account. This bill regulates the conditions under which people can exercise this right, what circumstances they have to meet in order to be able to opt for this new right that is regulated, and it is in any case that these people must suffer from an invalidating disease, a serious disease, a disease that does not have effective treatment, which is known how it evolves but cannot be treated, cannot be alleviated and does not entail an immediate death; it is not known whether it will take one month, ten months, three years for the outcome to occur and, during that time, people are suffering. As long as we don't have this law, there will be many people, many more than we can imagine, who will be suffering from these situations and we can avoid them. Much more than we imagined and, above all, much more than we wanted. This decision, the exercise of this right, is made freely by the person. There is no delegation in third parties, it is not the responsibility of those who care for it, of those who help it, of those who care for it; no, it is the free will of the person concerned that decides solely and exclusively, in a personal, conscious, informed, meditated, maintained in time, ratified and free from any social, economic or family pressure. This is the circumstance in which this new right, which Spanish legislation must already regulate at once, can be exercised and how. This proposal for a law also seeks to ensure that this process of aid to persons who meet these circumstances and who consider that this suffering must be brought to an end, takes place in the conditions of maximum possible comfort, quality and professionalism. For this reason, it is decided to incorporate into the common service portfolio of our National Health System and it is the autonomous communities, through their health services, that establish the procedures and services so that this can be carried out. And it's done with a lot of guarantees. There is not only the doctor responsible; there has to be a second opinion of the consultant doctor and, finally, of the evaluation and control commission, which does an ex ante and ex post control of the act of the process of ending the lives of these people. Obviously, there are professionals who will intervene in this process and those who do not want to intervene in it can - the law also regulates it, establishes a register - benefit from conscientious objection. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a law that some collectives demand, and I take this opportunity to thank you for your perseverance in the struggle to achieve this new law and your dedication, especially to Dr. Montes, who today has to recognize his work and his professionalism. [[Applauds]] He said that it is a law mostly supported by Spanish citizens and survey after survey shows it to us. As a novelty, we know that medical professionals are also mostly in favour of this new legislation, this new regulation. I thank the professional colleges in Madrid, Vizcaya, Tarragona and Las Palmas, which have taken the initiative of consulting professionals directly to find out what their opinion is; professionals who live continuously with pain are not insensitive to the pain of many people and therefore not to this demand. [[Applauds]] I am now finished, addressing all your ladies and gentlemen, asking them to support this proposal for a law, and especially the right-wing bench to insist that human pain and suffering have no distinctions of ideology, and it is not their ideology that is going to tell. Please allow a new right to emerge in Spanish citizenship, let us have a new right and let anyone who wants to use it, and anyone who does not, not use it, but let us not prevent anyone who wants to exercise it from exercising it! [[Applause from the Socialist Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal and from the members of the Government present, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Carcedo. He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mr Echaniz Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this House once again calls us to a debate on which the proponent, the Socialist Party, wants to legislate by stealing from Spanish society all the legal and procedural guarantees that such a rule should have. Not in vain, the Socialist Group does not present a bill today, it presents a proposal for a law, and the difference is not vague. While a bill, according to article 88 of the Constitution and article 26 of the Government Act, needs to be preceded by studies and consultations necessary to ensure the correctness and legality of the rule, the proposed law of a parliamentary group does not do so. While a draft law must hold a public consultation in which the views of all subjects potentially affected by the future rule and also of the most representative organizations on the problems, needs, opportunities, objectives or possible alternatives also, regulatory and non-regulatory, to the proposed law are not required. Nor does it require a memory of the analysis of the regulatory impact it has, of the content and the legal analysis with reference to national law, to the law of the European Union, or of the adequacy of the rule to the order of the distribution of competences, the economic and budgetary impact or the administrative burdens involved. This rule, as a proposal for a law, does not allow it to be submitted to the General Commission of Secretaries of State and Assistant Secretaries, nor to the Council of Ministers to decide on subsequent procedures, and something very important: consultations, opinions and reports that are mandatory and convenient to ensure correctness and legality. Nor does it need to be informed by the Technical General Secretariat of the ministry or ministries concerned, or by the Ministry of Finance, by affecting the inspection of the services. A bill, ladies and gentlemen, unlike a proposal like this, needs to give an audience to the citizens concerned, to obtain as many contributions as possible from individuals and entities, as well as from organizations and associations recognized by law that group or represent persons whose rights or legitimate interests are affected by the norm. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, the opinion of the Council of State and also of other bodies and institutions in matters as relevant as this, which is clearly related to the fundamental rights enshrined in articles 10, 14 or 15 of our constitutional text, is avoided. Where are the reports of congruence with the rest of the national legal system and that of the European Union? Where is the legal report that includes the express repeal of rules or of recasting others? Where is the induction of a post-application evaluation system, vital in a standard like this? Where are the reports of the general councils of professional schools in this country? Where are those of scientific societies, health unions? Where is the Spanish Bioethics Committee? Where is all that information, ladies and gentlemen, essential for this House to make a fair and responsible decision? Ladies and gentlemen, please know that the Socialist Party has deliberately and consciously - absolutely on purpose - evaded all relevant, indispensable, ethical - compulsory information, I would say - to make a decision on these consequences. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Spanish society needs to know that the Socialist Party has deliberately sought to steal this debate from Spanish society, all Spanish people, and intends to sneak us through the back door, without all the guarantees to which this Spanish society is entitled, a serious rule that will forever change the idiosyncrasy of our society, of our social services, of our health services, of our society, in short, and of the indispensable confidence of the medical-patient relationship. Spanish society is faced with this law, ladies and gentlemen, which must be treated in this obscurantist way and without guarantees because it is a question of dubious constitutionality for the fundamental rights concerned: the right to life, the right to physical and moral integrity, the rights to the principles of human dignity and the free development of personality and the value of freedom. Why has the report not been requested of the Council of State, ladies and gentlemen? I'll tell him. Because the Government clearly doubts - and clearly doubts - that its reports and consultations were in favour of the legality of the Government's claims and because those State institutions could challenge this text as a covert, and obviously unconstitutional form, for the fundamental rights to which it affects and because it could also affect the block of constitutionality, for example the health powers transferred to the autonomous communities, in which case such an opinion would be mandatory. This does not take into account the Law on Transparency, Access to Public Information, Good Government or Development Policy. Ladies and gentlemen, with this text they intend to introduce into Spanish society a rule that half of the population rejects, that the other half doubts or at least has intelligent and prudent caution and the need - I would say the right - to know. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you have prevented Spanish society from knowing and seriously opposing to prevent the largest population in this country from panicking when listening to institutions, lawyers or doctors in this House by analysing with data and rigorously what has already happened in the three or four countries around the world where a law like this has been passed. Today, their follow-up commissions for Euthanasia in Holland - Theo Boer - publicly tell us: Don't make our mistake, don't make our mistake; and now they're going to approve a lethal pill for people tired of living. Ladies and gentlemen, the accredited Remmelink report of the Dutch Government itself says that in the years of the passage of this law that you want to bring us through the back door, 32% of doctors say they have ended the lives of patients without consent, without having asked for it, 32%. The resolutions of the Council of Europe state that the adoption of euthanasia in the Netherlands has brought much more euthanasia, five times more than the first year of implementation, and much less control of euthanists, as up to 47% of cases are not even reported and this means professional impunity. Ladies and gentlemen, the patient was given autonomy, but the euthanists were empowered. All the legal, clinical and professional information that they have rejected, that they have prevented, that they have evaded on purpose, was precisely intended that the Courts could have sufficient elements of judgment to perform their legislative role rigorously and correctly and is in full conformity with article 109 of our Constitution. Do you realize that you will pass a law without the slightest demoscopic, serious and rigorous study, to know the informed position of the Spaniards, without directed questions and only on the basis of two media cases, yielding to the exception and without putting means to alleviate the suffering? Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this dark law, introduced by the back door and which reject health professionals as a whole - the College Medical Organization, the General Council of Colleges of Doctors of Spain, and all its collegiate and bioethical bodies are absolutely against - and the majority of Spanish society, the People's Party defends for the Spaniards a socially just alternative that allows death without suffering and without pushing or forcing people towards suicide. The People's Parliamentary Group has presented in this House for processing an alternative to euthanasia, a law that universally extends the access of all patients - I insist, of all patients - to palliative care that guarantees the conditions for a dignified death to the terminally ill. Ladies and gentlemen, between pain and euthanasia are palliative care at the end of life. [[Applauds]] You can't talk about euthanasia if palliative care isn't resolved. In our country more than half of these patients do not have access to palliative care and 70% of pain units in Spain do not have advanced palliative care resources according to the Spanish Society of Pain. As public officials we have an obligation to eliminate pain and suffering, but not the person with pain and suffering. That is why we want to incorporate a new social right, a new health right, throughout the National Health System, in all parts of the country, in all hospitals in the country, in all health centres in the country and also at home, in public and private centres, a right for all. An appropriate response, ladies and gentlemen, a humanized and advanced solution that affects more than 200 000 people and their families in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, palliative care is the solution of progress and also of science to eliminate or alleviate pain, to serve the person and his family, to help the most vulnerable and to build a more humanized and just society, because it dignifies human life and dignifies the lives of citizens and because it generates confidence, tranquillity and strength in the final stage of life for the sick and their families, and all this with comprehensive and quality care. Palliative care is an ethical solution that respects the unique value of every human life, the end of medicine and ethical criteria. They stimulate research, because nothing worse than euthanasia to discourage the research of new drugs and new diagnostic and therapeutic means. They are a highly valued solution by family members and companions who have had a care experience with palliative care for their loved ones. To all these positive elements, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group has wanted to accompany them with measures that further improve the care and company of terminally ill people, such as work permits for people who have to care for these people in the final stages of their lives, such as the creation of a specific training area to improve the quality of professionals who have to deal with these problems, or the creation of express access for people who need to skip the waiting list of hundreds of thousands of people who are in a situation of dependency in order to have access to these services. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons and for many more the People's Party is going to defend what it has always done with coherence and responsibility: to help people to the maximum in the final trance of life without ever claiming their death. In short, to end pain and suffering, but never to end the person who suffers pain and suffering. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u69	Thank you, Mr. Echaniz. To exercise the turn of reply, Mrs Carcedo Roces has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u70	Thank you, President. Mr Echaniz, do you really have the courage to come up to this rostrum and criticize a proposal for a law because it is registered by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to announce at the same time a proposal for a law that is registered by the People's Parliamentary Group, and everything in the same act and in line with it? Man, man! [[Applauds]] I apologize because surely you are not aware of the scope of what you have just secured in this rostrum. You are denying the legislative initiative of the parliamentary groups. [[Mr. Echaniz Salgado makes negative signs]] Man, what do you mean, no? [[Rumors]] Only from the PSOE, only from the Socialist Group, of course, because we are evil people who want to kill people on the street. [[Rumors and Protests]] Man, please. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u72	Legislative initiatives of parliamentary groups are as legitimate as legislative initiatives of the Government. The Rules of Procedure say that the parliamentary groups cannot have legislative initiative, and that is obviously the Socialist Group, because it knows the Rules of Procedure, it does not, but in this matter it does. As to whether this is the third time that comes and the third time that we have to present this initiative, it is because of some of the arguments that made it fall twice, and let us hope that this time does not happen. In addition, the People's Party, as part of the Government, also introduced organic laws on its own initiative. I remember one that was very controversial: that of abortion to prevent girls from sixteen to eighteen years of age from aborting, or that of universal justice when they said: no, it is a law that has no importance - that of universal justice - is foolishness. [[applause]] Man, please, I ask you to know a little bit about being and a little equanimity. What we do not want to do is get into the debate. And you tell me what you just registered on a palliative care initiative. You are professional like me and you know and know perfectly well that it has nothing to do with the vocation of palliative care with those of euthanasia; in palliative care there is an imminent death and, in the case of euthanasia, no. That is the problem, there is no foreseeable imminent death, it is indefinite and the years or times that this situation of suffering is going to last are not known. Therefore, it has nothing to do with each other; let us not mix barbecues with merinas, because no, since in this House there is enough intelligence to discern, and of course much more intelligence in Spanish citizenship to discern. [[applause]] Don't come to me, please, telling me the story that you want a palliative care law. Please, we could get there! First, there could be a palliative care law in place if you had been prudent and in the Senate had not blocked the law that went directly to the bulletin, for by a whim of an amendment I do not know what the law does not exist. [[applause]] We could have a Palliative Care Act in place in our consensual country in this House and derived from the Senate. The Socialist Parliamentary Group asked them not to table amendments, but you, the Citizens' Group, even though you presume to have tabled it, dedicated yourselves to introducing amendments to block the law once the legislature has lapsed and the Congress of Deputies has been dissolved. There's no history of palliative care law left here. In 2011, the then socialist government introduced a law on palliative care that lapses. In 2012, this initiative was resubmitted and rejected by the People's Parliamentary Group with its absolute majority. In 2015 we recidivized and presented the initiative again, and you rejected it again. What are we left with? Do we want palliative care law or don't we want it? Or do we want an argument to justify that we do not want to give a solution to that new right and that people decide freely a dignified death and not suffer progressive physical or psychological deterioration? What are we talking about, Mr. Echaniz, please? [[Applauds]] I insist, pain, suffering has no ideology. And I ask you again, please, not to oppose, as always, all rights. Then you'll use it, you, your voters, your family. When this law exists, neither you nor anyone will prevent a suffering person from choosing a worthy death. The Spanish public system must look for it, because it is not its ideology, neither that of professionals nor that of anyone, are the values of the person, its value and its idea of life and death, its beliefs or its absence of beliefs. That is what the person decides exclusively and freely, and not you. Don't stop them, please... [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common and of the members of the Government present, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Carcedo. Mr Echaniz Salgado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Carcedo, the People's Parliamentary Group has no choice but to present a law through a proposal. The Government, yes, the Government can do so through a bill or bill, and has chosen to bring it to this House without the necessary mandatory reports. [[applause]] You have said that this is a decision that is made by the free will of people. Could you tell me, Mrs. Carcedo, what freedom or decision-making capacity exists in a mentally ill person, in a person who has a depression? Psychiatrists show that up to 90% of people who have a mental illness at some point in their torpid evolution or the course of the disease want to die. Do you believe that there is a real capacity for decision when a person has no family support, no company, no resources, no support, or if he is aware that it is a hindrance for the family, for society? Ladies and gentlemen, since we are talking about progressiveism, the progressive is the result of the progress of the human race; it is solidarity, it is inclusion, it is the diversity of inclusion of the weak and the vulnerable; it is caring and resourceful for those who need it most from the welfare state. It is not to indicate the way out, exit; this is your project, this is your political and social message to the elderly and chronically complex people in this country who see with great concern, believe me, your social engineering project, your final solution or your trivialization of euthanasia. The progressive thing, Your Honor, the human thing, is to take care of them. Believe me, getting rid of the helpless sick is really reactionary. [[Applauds]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to devote one minute to a financial issue which is currently latent in the Netherlands with regard to euthanasia and which I believe is very pedagogical for the citizens of our country; it is very important that they know this information. A healthy patient in the Netherlands costs the healthcare system, in the worst case scenario, less than 300 euros; a person subject to complex diagnostic or therapeutic procedures, pluripathological, polymedical, chronic, major, no less than 15,000 euros. I would like citizens to answer what they think is best for the system in financial terms, that the Dutchman who needs the support of society lives long and continues to spend or lives little and stops spending? What if we incorporate your pension into the equation? What if we add your dependency benefits to the equation? [[Rumors and Protests]] Yes, yes, it is that this is very important, because these are the economic consequences of this decision. [[Rumors]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u76	Look, in Holland it has already been published that problems with your pensions are gradually diminishing. It's something you won't recognize, but it's the substrate of this social engineering project that you want to copy. Therefore, neither France nor England nor Portugal nor Italy nor any of the countries in our environment have passed laws like this. Ladies and gentlemen, even Canada has studied, calculated and already published, through the Canadian Medical Association, with data from the Netherlands, all the consequences of the law of euthanasia in financial, economic and projection terms. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it reduces costs by hundreds of millions of Canadian dollars compared to its start-up cost. This must be taken into account if we want to make a serious law, and study all the edges, all the components, all the elements that shape this decision. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what underpins these regulations; they involve savings; they involve savings for the costs of the elderly, the most fragile, the most vulnerable; they are social cuts in every rule, social cuts in every rule, with the excuse, yes, of the right to die. [[applause]] And while, ladies and gentlemen, your Government allows more than a million people to wait on dependency waiting lists without having resources, family or economic support, or the state's social and health resources. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u77	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, longevity thus becomes a financial risk; it is. They therefore know that neither the doctrine of the Constitutional Court nor that of the Court of Human Rights of the European Union nor the medical schools or the agreements signed by Spain with no one, nor the Spanish Constitution nor the World Health Organization nor the United Nations, are euthanasia. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that for all these reasons, as I said in the first intervention, the People's Parliamentary Group has an alternative and, therefore, it is going to oppose this law and has introduced that comprehensive palliative care law that supports the most necessary for these people in their last moments of life, because we seek equality between Spaniards, we also seek the safety of health professionals, we seek to guarantee the dignity of the person in the final moments of life and avoid unnecessary suffering. It is a law that introduces contributions from experts, professional colleges, bioethics committees, scientific societies and patient associations, ladies and gentlemen; a law, in short, that allows our society to advance in terms of progress and not of regression in the saddest moments of human history. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u79	Thank you, Mr. Echaniz. In the course of fixing positions, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that, according to the Socialist spokesman, if this is a right, an individual right and is a voluntary right, why do we limit it? If it is a right, an individual right and a voluntary right, let's leave it, that anyone can make the decision about their life that pleases you. That is to the conclusion that the countries that started with this, which is the case with the Drion pill, are coming to the conclusion. Of course, they've put a limit on him from the age of seventy. But why? If one of the eighteen understands that his individual and voluntary right is to end his life, why do they set limits on him? Because you know that this is not as simple as an individual and voluntary right. It's just that it's not and you know it, and you know that of course it has to do with palliative care with this, much has to do with it. Today we think like the Communist Party; that is, that of Portugal, which voted against the law of euthanasia in Portugal precisely because they had not developed palliative care, because it has a lot to do with palliative care; of course it has a lot to do with it! This is a law of assisted suicide; legitimate, of course, they can present it, even they will prove it; but, yes, respect us those we think are wrong; respect us, leave us alone those we think this is not good, that we understand we need to encourage and we need to put many more resources in palliative care. That we can't change the doctor-patient relationship? This totally changes the doctor-patient relationship, totally. It completely changes the system, of course, and here are the statistics of all the countries that are implementing it. It completely changes the situation and puts itself in a different situation. And you take responsibility for the doctors. Of course they have responsibility! Who decides if not, the person? As it is! Of course doctors are responsible! Therefore, you, when you talk about these things, would have to take very much into account the other positions. Palliative care is fundamental and it is true that in Spain that has not been taken care of. Why doesn't the subject of palliative care already exist in all medical faculties? It does not exist, in fact, in very few. Why have many of the Spanish hospitals not developed these services? We have to develop them because, of course, having palliative care we would speak in another way. This is not as simple as saying that it is a voluntary and free right because, if so, as I say, I don't know why you have to set limits. This is too serious, too serious for him to be alone in his hands. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u81	Thank you, Mr. García. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all and everyone. We will support this proposal for an organic law which the Socialist Group has tabled, and we will do so for a number of reasons. The main thing probably - it has already been said - is that this is a proposal for a law that regulates the right of people to decide on the possibility of having a worthy death, and in no case does it require anyone to have access to this procedure if they do not think it necessary. If it were to be said that all those who are in a serious, chronic and incurable situation are obliged to necessarily resort to this regulation, then we would have a problem, but we are talking about saving, of respecting the right of those who feel that there should in no way be this right to a dignified death for reasons that are absolutely respectable, but why deny the right of those who consider that to be their right. I do not know if we have read the same text, but I have carefully reread this proposal of law and, if anything, it is guarantor; it is so guarantor that in some things it is too guarantor, so that this of everyone deciding to commit suicide... No, Your Honor, this is what it does to save, to avoid being blamed exclusively on doctors - this was discussed by me in my time in the college medical organization to the point of satiety; this is unacceptable - or that those who have the right to decide are close people, one well-intentioned and one ill-intentioned. We are talking about an absolutely guaranteed process. I really believe that there is no reason - no reason - why someone can be imposed not to go to the right to die decently when this is done with full guarantee for all, for those who have the obligation to do so, but also for those who have the right to request it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u83	Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. Finally, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u84	Good afternoon. We usually say that civil disobedience is an engine of change, and today we are faced with the beginning of a law that would not have been possible without the people who, by disobeying an unjust law, helped to place euthanasia as a right in the eyes of our society, from Ramon Sampedro to Maria José Carrasco and her husband, Ángel Hernández. Thanks to all of them and them. At the beginning of the process of proposing a law and with the short time we have, we have little more than thanks for these courageous gestures and also for the persistence of organised civil society. Today we live a triumph of this persistent work of entities in Catalonia such as Dret a Morir Dignament and the Committee of Bioètica de Catalunya, pioneering platforms that already promoted in the year 2000 the Catalan law, which was the first in the Spanish state that included the last voluntary manifestations on their own life with legal value, and that have continued their work until the recent pronouncements of the Parliament of Catalonia in 2017 and 2019 demanding the decriminalization of euthanasia. Entities - let me add - mainly driven by women, since the struggle for dignified death is the consequence of the struggle for dignified life and for the care of life, struggles in which women and feminism have always emphasized. After many attempts, it seems that this time it will be the definitive one and in the Spanish State a law of euthanasia will be adopted, so often sabotaged or hindered by the sectors that have wanted to impose their morals and that then have the nostrils of talking about the imposition or cultural intrusion of the left. For you gentlemen, decriminalizing is not forcing. Ending the criminalization of euthanasia means ending the clandestine routes that have been used and will continue to be used to end the suffering of people who want to end their lives, such as those who decided to record and disseminate Maria José Carrasco and Ángel Hernández precisely to denounce that the act had to take place in the underground and with the repressive risk that it eventually entailed. In a critical situation like this, it is not necessary to hide, but information, security and confidence in the medical and family environment to be able to make a decision about one's own life. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u85	Thank you, Mr. Botran. For the Parliamentary Group of Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u86	Good afternoon. Pick it up on. This law is an important and urgent issue. We've had sixteen attempts in the last 20 years. I hope that this year we will be able to achieve a renewing, just and emancipating law. Our positioning starts from the need to put the person, his emotional and social well-being at the centre of political decisions, and following this imperative we work to ensure that all people have a dignified life and, consequently, we can have the means to ensure that we also die with dignity. There have been many social and institutional initiatives that have been claiming this right. Among other things, I would like to remind you that we cannot forget that already in 2015 the Foral Parliament of Navarre urged the Government of Spain to amend the Penal Code in order to decriminalize euthanasia and assisted suicide. Putting in place the means that enable people to die with dignity is urgent because many years are wasted because of the lack of development of palliative care, many years of prohibition of euthanasia, many years of useless suffering, many years of application of article 143 and, ultimately, the most serious is that they are many years of inequality because even in the process of dying there is inequality. Depending on who you are, where you live and many times in which hands you are, you're going to have a lot worse. In fact, only a small part of the population is having access - there I agree with Mr Echaniz, you are right - to quality palliative care. Fortunately, I live in an area where we are developing quality palliative care, but it is not enough and the same palliativeists say: there comes a time when they ask you to stop; I can't do more. An important conflict is created and depends on who it is, they are helping to die, but in silence because it can no longer be helped. These people have to be covered, they have to be helped, they have to put in a legal framework that puts order in that. We must establish - I agree - universal access to quality palliative care within public health. You claim that the development of such palliative care will make it unnecessary to resort to euthanasia, but that is not the case and reality confirms that palliative care is not enough. He has set the example of the Netherlands, which has a much more advanced palliative care development than the Spanish state system. In the Netherlands there are 7000 petitions a year requesting euthanasia, 7000. You mentioned the lack of control in some cases, but the great effort that Holland is making is precisely to control that procedure and speed it up. The great criticism is the lack of agility in the access of those who need it, which is leading to incorrect practices due to the lack of agility of the Administration to facilitate this resource, precisely because there are medical groups that are doing their best and impossible to put obstacles on the wheels of this process. You said that in the Spanish state there is a lack of demoscopic studies, etc., but the surveys are ongoing. All surveys in the Netherlands give massive support to the maintenance of this right. In Canada, which you have also cited, most medical schools, as well as studies that have been developed, agree with the practices being developed and value them positively. So I can also tell you that in the Spanish State this demand for euthanasia is broad, strong, intense and is being claimed to be equal. Because what's going on? You will surely, in the environment in which you live, meet some people who have had the need to request euthanasia or assisted suicide and have been able to go to Switzerland, pay for the trip along with their families to be able to access, but there are many families who cannot do so, as there are also many families who cannot have a trusted doctor who will help them put an end to life, as is happening in the Spanish State. Here - let me not forget - I want to give an express recognition to all the people who have been suffering uselessly precisely for this twenty-year delay in having passed this law; those people who have lived close to the people who have been near death in recent years are those who most strongly support the right to euthanasia. We therefore welcome the launch of this process of drafting the law as a positive step. Let us hope that in the debate we will be able to improve the proposal that they have brought us, especially in terms of not limiting its effectiveness to terminal diseases, not putting euthanasia and assisted suicide at a disjunctive level, and to lighten and speed up the previous controls by the Monitoring and Evaluation Committee. In this regard, one of the issues we would propose would be that administrative silence cannot be negative, but in any case confirmatory. We believe that the fundamental step must come from the decriminalization of aid or cooperation in euthanasia and assisted suicide. It should not be punishable and another amendment proposal was needed. That is why our group, Euskal Herria Bildu, will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u87	Thank you very much, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, welcome on. Good afternoon, everyone. How much demagogy can be applied in five minutes, I don't think you can frivolize with such important things in such a short time. Mr Echaniz, I find it very cruel for you to say that this is a matter of reducing costs. Maybe it's because in your party you should know something about that, maybe Mr. Montoro explained that to you very well when you removed universal health because it was very expensive and cheaper that would be, maybe it's because you know it. [[applause]] In any case, this is the third or fourth time that we have this topic on the table and the truth is that we have made progress because we have discussed, we have spoken, and that is an important step in this matter, because so far it was a taboo subject that we did not even mention. The truth is that our society is having more and more changes, there is more and more life expectancy, important technical, medical and health advances to cure diseases, to alleviate suffering, which have meant an increase in life expectancy with the consequent aging, the chronicity of many diseases and dependence. That's a reality. But it has also changed the type of health care and has been opening way to a model of shared responsibility in which the sick person already shares and decides more than before; it no longer depends on what the doctor says, as at another time; the patient through his autonomy can increasingly decide, and that's important, that's fine. There is increasing awareness and consideration of the needs of people in their lives and at the end of their lives. Therefore, we are in a situation in which we have already discussed, in which we must decide who decides how we live and who decides how we die. It seems to me that confusing, mixing or opposing euthanasia against palliative care, apart from being a cheap demagogy and not being true, is harmful precisely to both palliative care and euthanasia. Palliative care is necessary, palliative care is basic, palliative care has been fought and achieved in those places, such as in Euskadi, where more and more people were suffering, when medicine could not do more and health care consisted of that accompaniment. In that speech, Mr. Echaniz, you will not find us, in that speech the enemy will not be us. Or do you consider that someone in this Chamber is against palliative care, that people are helped to die, that people who can no longer be cured are accompanied until the last moment? Therefore, our group will not be against, indeed, we lead it to the place where we have ruled. As has been said here, euthanasia could be a right, but not an obligation. It seems that what you are claiming is that no one has that right. We make no one, but you make no one have that right, people who don't think like you. We live in an open, advanced society, prepared to deal with and solve these kinds of situations with total normality. Someone told me that he had been caring for a person who later died with a lot of suffering, that when life is, it's everything, no doubt, but when it's not, it's nothing. We cannot understand life as a void contrary to any minimum of dignity, where suffering is the only thing that keeps you alive and where you only live to suffer. You want that for someone, Mr. Echaniz? No doubt we must do everything possible to make people want to live, but it is not the same thing to want to live as to live, and forcing someone to live can be as cruel as forcing him to die. It seems to me that no one here wants the cruelty or the obligation to decide what the end of nobody's life should be like. The truth is that the debate on the eventual regulation and decriminalization of euthanasia is not a medical debate, as the illustrious College of Doctors of Barcelona recently said in a report, it is a social debate, it is an ethical and political debate, and it is up to us to legislate on that, because it seems that some consider that realities by avoiding or obviating them disappear. No, no, the realities have to be faced and overcome. And when there is a reality with a situation that can bother us, it is our duty, as legislators we are, to deal with and solve these problems. In Euskadi, the Basque Parliament approved the amendment of article 143 of the Criminal Code, which decriminalizes, but there is a ruling from the European Court of Human Rights that it is not acceptable for a country that has decriminalized euthanasia to have developed and promulgated a specific legal regime that will accompany and cover it, because only with decriminalization do we do nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, we have talked a lot about this. We have not changed the speech, we continue to say the same things that we said and that we have said in the previous four times that we have come up to this rostrum to talk about this subject. Yes to palliative care, of course, but who are we thinking about when we're thinking about making a law of euthanasia? Do you believe that it can be frivolized by thinking things like those that have been said here today; to kill old people, to remove people who interfere from circulation? Forgive me, a party like mine in life would think that, in life, and I believe that any man or woman with common sense and dignity would never support that. Therefore, we will take into consideration this proposal for a law. At the time we had even prepared the amendments on those issues which we considered to be better and which needed to be changed. I hope that this phase arrives as soon as possible for the good of all, because living is wonderful, but not being able to live and not being able to die has to be horrifying. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u89	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I begin sadly surprised by the intervention of the colleague of the People's Parliamentary Group, I find it hard to talk about euthanasia with an economic approach in which what matters - or that has meant - is that there is going to be a reduction in pensions. I would ask them for respect and correction because I find it really worrying to use and banalize such a relevant subject. [[Applauds]] In addition, on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, I would like to express my satisfaction that in this Parliament we can discuss rights and freedoms, after months of opportunities and lost debates while the Socialist Party was playing with an electoral repetition by delaying such important debates as this. In Citizens we will always be in favour of discussing and legislating on rights and freedoms. That is why we are voting in favour of this bill. I told you at the plenary of the previous week that in Citizens we do not look at who presents a certain proposal, but what kind of proposal is presented. We are faced with a legislative proposal in which we will have to work comprehensively, thoroughly, because we have to respect constitutional rights: the fundamental right to life, the right to liberty and the right to dignity of people. In addition, we need to ensure that it is a guaranteed law for health professionals. We are talking about a very important issue that is individual freedom. Today we put people in the center, something that any liberal person must defend without any hindrance. We all have the right to a dignified life, but we also have the right to leave life with the same dignity. Let us speak without prejudice, without ideological corsets. It is time for us to give society the debate of the twenty-first century that deserves and to regulate euthanasia in a guaranteed way and, moreover, with a broad consensus as is already the case in our society. In Citizens we know that this can be bad news for those who are committed to polarizing all debates, but this matter goes beyond the political colour, ladies and gentlemen, because many Spaniards who are listening to us vote for different political parties, but all those who have been able to have any such situation in their environment know that it is worth at least in this we separate ideology. We are faced with a question of humanity, anyone who has had a relative or close person in an irreversible situation understands that he has the right to be protected by the State in a guaranteed manner and with the necessary medical approval. It already happens in other countries. That is why I would like to appeal here to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, convinced that no political party has the heritage of humanity or of good sentiments, that we should really reflect from within and think: what would any of us do in such a situation? I'm sure we wouldn't want to see anyone in our environment suffer irreparably and stand idly by. That is why it deserves a serious debate, a debate in which we appeal to all political groups to work together on a guaranteed law. Unfortunately, neither pain nor suffering nor reality will disappear because we look elsewhere. I would also like to tell all parties, especially the Socialist Party, that we are waiting for a serious debate, that you do not play the fast title with a matter that literally depends on the lives of so many people. You have already brought this debate to the fore in the previous legislature when you were preparing for the 10-N election campaign. Never again use this Parliament as a campaign committee. We from Citizens are not going to allow it; we are going to remain serious, rigorous in this debate. We're going to ask you to think about the most vulnerable people, that no one stop making such an important decision without having them meditated on, having all the knowledge, all the information. That no one, either because of his loneliness or because of his vulnerable socio-economic situation, should be forced to make decisions because he has no other opportunity, but quite the contrary, for decisions to be made with opportunity and freedom. That is precisely why, because we want to broaden the range of freedoms, Citizens have again presented our law of guarantees at the end of life. Yes, we were the first to present it in the previous legislature; that things were truncated because they were not able to form government is no longer our fault. Furthermore, we have to bear in mind that we are presenting it with great parliamentary support, which we are proud of. A law of dignity in the final process of life that wants to ensure that every citizen has the right to spend his or her last days without pain and that, in addition, he or she is with the least pain possible. Facilitating your dignified life is a matter of humanity and, therefore, we will continue to defend a law that achieves this purpose and that in turn avoids the territorial inequalities that exist. In short, we see that we have a lot of work to do to have a guaranteed law, to have a law that reflects the interests and wishes of the majority of Spaniards; a law based on the right to liberty and the right to have all the guarantees. [[Applauds]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u91	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u92	Good afternoon, Madam President. In our view, this law is necessary even though it has been made to wait too long, and that means added suffering. The Spanish state is always slow, very slow when it comes to expanding rights. I would like to remind you that the first truly media case of a worthy death occurred in Galicia in the late years of the last century: that of Ramon Sampedro; it was also the first to arrive at the Supreme Court, and in which the courageous people who helped him end his life in 1998 were, in some cases, prosecuted judicially. This doesn't make any sense. The BNG defends the decriminalization of euthanasia, the right for people to decide freely to end their lives when, due to an irreversible medical situation, they consider that the conditions are no longer given to maintain a dignified existence, and to do so in a safe, peaceful and painless manner with the help that is needed. We must put an end to the blackmail and taboo that life is divine property and is administered according to the criteria of the religious hierarchy. It has already been said many times that giving the opportunity to choose does not mean forcing. We start from the premise, especially in a confessional State, that life is a right of people and not an obligation; therefore, it cannot become a crime, which must be a right to a dignified death and not to prolong suffering. It should be remembered that the defence of a dignified death is part of the defence of the right to a dignified life. Interestingly, the reactionary sectors opposed to the former are also those who do not care to guarantee the latter as if it were not for themselves. The Galego Nationalist Block will support the process of this legislative initiative regardless of whether we try to improve it in the debate process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u93	Thank you, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Today comes a proposal, which we are going to vote in favour of, which has often come to the House, which has been voted in favour several times in this House, but which, above all, gentlemen of the right-wing bench, already has the majority approval of the Spanish common sense in the families, in the conversations of the WhatsApp groups, in the workplaces, and which is why, as far as they are concerned, it is going to become law. In the process of amendments, we will also work to ensure - and this certainly sounds like it - the equal rights of all Spaniards live where they live, it is not going to be that the autonomous governments in the hands of the right are dedicated to making an institutional boycott so that what is approved here as a right cannot be guaranteed autonomous community to the autonomous community. Today we actually regulate an individual right, an individual freedom that should be like the most basic: the right not to have to prolong one's life if life has become a form of suffering. And I say this to you with great respect, Mr Echaniz: I have heard your statements this morning and I was convinced that you were going to use your turn in this rostrum to ask for forgiveness; to ask for forgiveness because it is barbaric the statements you have made comparing the right to euthanasia, to a dignified death, to the final solution, or saying - and this is a crime coming from the People's Party of the Community of Madrid - that it is a measure to save money or to do business with people's diseases. Really, you, who privatized the Madrid Funeral for a hundred pesetas, who had to recover and municipalize us, give us lessons in doing business with people's diseases? [[Applauds]] I believe that it is still time to ask for forgiveness and not to pass on today and today's debate to the history of this House as someone who made profoundly insulting statements for health professionals, the sick and all their relatives. Look, today comes a proposal that has to do with individual freedom and the People's Party and VOX, which are liberal for everything else, turns out that today they are going to vote against an individual freedom. And why? Because you don't have any liberals. You call freedom exclusively to an excuse against the public and for the right of the rich not to pay taxes, to attack the public school, to attack public health, and when it comes to regulating and legislating a positive freedom, a republican freedom that implies that we agree to enjoy common freedoms, also the freedom to die, you there - what a coincidence!-, pack liberals, say no. I want to end today by mentioning Angel Hernández, accused last year for helping his wife die. Let it be law so that this never happens again. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u95	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. Finally, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u96	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me begin by thanking all those who have struggled so long for this bill to be an initiative in the House today. Let's hope it's a reality soon. Let me also, Mrs. Carcedo, do an act of justice. I do not see it, but I would like to thank your party and your parliamentary group for prioritising this initiative, because my group believes it is important that it is debated from the beginning of the parliamentary term so that it becomes a reality as soon as possible. I feel like I have to say thank you. Mr Echaniz, we are accustomed to the frivolities and cynicism of your group in this matter. In fact, we have heard them much thicker than your party's spokesmen when we discussed this on previous occasions, but what we are going to see today is a tremendous paradoxical situation and it is that the two parties that are asking for a parental pin so that the state does not enter the classrooms have decided that they have the right to impose on the other citizens their ideas and their values up to our deathbed and on me, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Echaniz, I do not think of a better pin of dignity or a better pin of freedom than this initiative to avoid imposing on me their ideas, their values, their needs or their virtues and thus to calibrate my suffering, with which, Mrs Carcedo, I am pleased that my group is going to vote, as it could not be in any other way, in favour of this initiative and will do so for two reasons. First, because it is a guarantee law, which gives citizens the right and obliges the legislator to be prudent, but demanding at the same time. And second, because it fights two big confusions that are important to us. The first is the false dilemma between euthanasia and palliative. We know that they are not only compatible, but that there is no better way to guarantee palliative cures such as God commands that a law of euthanasia that is efficient, that regulates and, above all, that gives citizens the right. We know in Catalonia, Mr. Echaniz, what palliative cures are. WHO considers Catalonia's oncological healing system as a global reference system. We have the PADES programme to ensure that citizens who freely choose this option have it at their disposal. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, let us support this law because it clarifies one thing which is obvious and which has been repeated on several occasions this afternoon: it establishes a very important hue between what is a right and an obligation. For the same reason that an abortion law does not force anyone to abort, for the same reason that the widening of the concept of marriage did not force anyone to marry anyone who did not want to marry, this law will also not force anyone to do anything that he did not want. This concludes, Madam President, but I did not want to close this speech without mentioning a few words from Ramon Sampedro. My generation discovered what suffering was, what palliative cures were, in many cases, thanks to Ramon Sampedro and it seems to me of justice, today that we are here, to read a few words that he wrote on his deathbed. Ramon Sampedro wrote something that sounds like this: If reason triumphed in this country of mine, every citizen who dwells in it would have the privilege of choosing, like you, his time to love, to live and above all to die. When the seed of liberation is born in the consciousness of the human being, every opposing force, every fanatical and repressive sophism or fundamentalism that opposes it to germinate and bear fruit is suffering and pain that is accumulating on earth as the gestation of a monster that will inexorably give birth to an apocalypse. Ladies and gentlemen, today I hope that reason will prevail, that this law will be an initiative that we can discuss and that it will be a reality as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u97	Thank you, Mr. Miquel. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u98	Thank you, President. Finally, at the third stage, we have succeeded in bringing forward this law, the law regulating euthanasia, and recognizing the right of all the citizens of the Spanish State to a dignified death. Unfortunately, it has not come in time for some people, but we must look forward, towards the future, to avoid cases such as that of Antoni Monguilod, who died last October, or that of María José Carrasco, whom his husband, Mr Ángel Hernández - whom I greet affectionately from here - helped to end the suffering that multiple sclerosis caused him to suffer for years and now faces a crime for it. I take advantage of this moment to claim also the great work that the Association Right to Die Dignity has been doing for a long time with a multitude of initiatives at the state, autonomous and local level in defense of the right to die with dignity. From the Republican Parliamentary Group we welcome the adoption today of this bill. It should be remembered that Catalonia is also a pioneer. Twenty-five years ago, Squerra Republicana de Catalunya asked this House to decriminalize this practice; in 2002 the Generalitat de Catalunya created the Register of Early Wills; we have the Observer of Death, which allows us to know how the citizens of Catalonia die, and in 2017 our Councillor of Salut, Alba Vergés, presented to this House a proposal for a law to decriminalize euthanasia with the support of a very large majority in the Parliament of Catalonia. In addition, the Comitè Consultiu de Bioética de Catalunya almost fourteen years ago is a reference with its studies in this field. And, if that were not enough, 84% of Catalans and Catalans support the decriminalisation of euthanasia and are in favour of aid to die worthily. It is therefore our responsibility to respond to this demand. In the work that is being done in the drafting of this law from the Republican Parliamentary Group we will be very attentive and actively involved, since, as you will know, the Generalitat de Catalunya has the competence in the field of care. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about rights, the right to choose how to end our lives when suffering is unbearable and incurable. It is also a struggle for freedom. It goes from the will of people to make free and consistent decisions with their convictions. Criminalization, on the other hand, prevents the will to freely exercise a very personal right, because dying is inevitable, but suffering should not be. We are faced with the right to choose a dignified death and to preserve the right to personal integrity, to stop receiving medication or treatment when the disease is incurable and to be assisted by palliative care that alleviates pain until the very moment of death. In short, we are talking about the right to reject unnecessary suffering. None of this has anything to do with crime, sin, suicide or murder. Less than a week ago, a very close family member died, who a few months ago stopped receiving treatment and in her last weeks of life, asked to let her die. The family members we were at his side couldn't do anything, because with the supply of any medication that could be given he was at risk of dying and, therefore, we had to see how he suffered in his last days an absolutely inhuman suffering. It is our duty to meet the majority social demand and not hinder the individual and free will of a person to dispose of his or her own life. One thing is clear: how good it is to want to live and to be able to live, how bad it is to want to live and not to be able to, but the worst of all is to want to die for not being able to live and not being able to do so. Finally, as my colleague Joan Olòriz said in this rostrum on June 26, 2018, reminding Lucio Anneo Seneca: 'Death is a punishment for some, for others it is a gift and for many a favor'. And our favor to society today will be to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u99	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Echenique Robba.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u100	Thank you, President. 'look and my gaze / like an echo repeating, without words: / further inside, further inside, / up to the beyond of the whole / by blood and by bones. [[You.]] / But I wake up always / and always want to be dead / to continue with my mouth / entangled in hair '. [[yours]] This wrote Ramon Sampedro from the bed he lived in for thirty years. For anyone who listens to us, they are the words of a lucid man who is clear about what he wants. The only reason Ramon Sampedro didn't take his own life was because he could only move his head. The only reason his friend, Ramona Maneiro, had to help him die was because public health in our country then and now, twenty years later, cannot legally do so. The only reason Ramona chose to hide what she had done was the anachronistic and brutal article 143 of the Criminal Code. Today I want to say from the Chamber of Deputies that what Ramona Maneiro did for Ramón Sampedro and what Ángel Hernández did for María José Carrasco cannot be a crime that takes six to ten years to prison, because what Ramona did for Ramón, what Angel did for Maria José was to return their loved ones to freedom and it was an act of love. [[Applauds]] I think that almost all of our country has seen Sea in, that paradigmatic case of how culture can have enormous power to make a better society, and the case of Ramon Sampedro allows us to explain the mess that the People's Party tried to make us a few minutes ago. Ramon Sampedro did not suffer unbearable pains, with which he did not need palliative care. Without a law of euthanasia like the one we are going to pass in this Congress of Deputies the case of Ramon Sampedro would not have had legal reception. Palliative care does not solve all cases, it does not guarantee dignified death in all cases. To sum it up, so that everyone can understand us before the troubles of the right, the position of the right regarding euthanasia is that Ramon Sampedro gets fucked, that's his position. [[Applauds]] We have attended a speech by people who are actually unscrupulous. The same people who govern supported by those who say that teachers in public education teach pornography in schools to wear down and damage the image of public education today have dared to say here that there will be doctors who are thinking of ending the lives of defenseless patients to reduce costs to the system. What a lack of scruples! What disgusting things we have to hear sometimes in this House, ladies and gentlemen! What disgusting things! It's a pride... [[A Member speaks words that are not perceived.- Mr Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030, Iglesias Turrion: What did you say?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] I'm going on. It is a pride for me to say that in a few months euthanasia will be recognized as a right and will be included in the portfolio of public health services. In a few months no one will have to do what they had to do for dignity and love Ramona Maneiro, Ángel Hernández and so many others, because Spanish public health will do it. Within a few months, health personnel will be able to carry out their most difficult work with tranquillity and legal certainty, and those who do not want to do so will be able to choose conscientious objection. While the patriots of charanga and pandereta pride themselves on a flag or an anthem, it is a pride for me to say that in Spain people who want to marry can marry regardless of their sex; that women can decide on their own body, and that very soon Spain will be one of the few countries in the world that respect individual freedoms and the dignity of life also in their last moments. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u101	Mr. Echenique, you'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u102	I'm finishing up, President. I've studied a lot for this intervention and I've come across very hard things, but the hardest thing I've found was Angel Hernandez in a recent interview - thank you for being here, Angel -. Angel said: When Congress did not approve the budgets last February I knew that the government would no longer endure. Then, I waited for Pedro Sánchez to dissolve the Courts to tell Maria José that there was no chance that the law of euthanasia would be processed. She didn't want me to face it, but since the rule wasn't going to come out, I decided to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope this House is up to speed this time. Thank you very much. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common and members of the Government present, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u103	Thank you, Mr. Echenique. Mrs Moliner has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u104	Good evening. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an initiative for and for death, as some - we have seen - are trying in a completely crooked way to make us believe; I am convinced that this, unfortunately, will continue. This commitment to the right to dignified death is undoubtedly a very great starting point, which dignifies us all; it dignifies us individually as people, but it also dignifies us together as a country. Of course, from the United Nations we can support this proposal. We have defended it in previous legislatures. Moreover, specifically from the United Left we have been bringing these kinds of proposals to this House for more than twenty-two years. The reality is, I wish I'd been out a long time ago, but we haven't had that chance. It should also be remembered that we were almost exclusively the only group that did so, together with the Republican Left of Catalonia. I'm glad we can take it forward this time. I wish it were. So I understand that there is no room for doubt that my group will support and focus on this project. But, of course, what we have learned is that certain sums certainly have their fruits, and I am therefore convinced that with a great deal of work we will even be able to enrich that text. First of all, to mention one of those aspects that we believe we could work, without any doubt, we would talk about that we cannot consider the cornerstone or the fundamental principle of this law suffering, because that is not the case. My colleague, Mr Pablo, has already said this when he spoke and others and other rapporteurs have also said this before me. Here we are talking about much more; we are talking about the right to freedom, the right to dignity. But, of course, and in a very clear way we are talking about freedom of conscience, and there must be something fundamental that does not shake our pulse when it comes to carrying it out. We also understand - I end immediately - that there is excessive prior control, above all, because it would seem to us at least reckless to leave it at the discretion of the autonomous communities when we have had several examples, specifically in Andalusia or Murcia, knowing that among their practices is that of privatizing health, betting on cuts and, of course, they have the worst health services. That, ladies and gentlemen, is intolerable. That's when we can't increase their skills. Of course, we have fallen into the palliative care debate, which is frankly your strategy to divert everything. The reality, as has already been said here, is that palliative care has a limit, and the best palliative care is perfectly compatible with the law of euthanasia.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u105	Ma'am Master, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u106	I'm done. And, of course and as always, women will be the most harmed. So it's enough to drag in an improper guilt that doesn't belong to us. It's a historic moment full of dignity; we're up to it. I end by quoting Juan Gelman: 'Here it happens, gentlemen, that I play death'. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Master. Mrs Méndez Monasterio has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to appear on behalf of the VOX Group to proclaim the dignity and therefore the value of every human life from conception to natural death. It is an honour for me to defend, on behalf of my group from this rostrum, all those who are in a situation of serious and incurable illness, chronic, incapacitating and suffering unbearable suffering. To all those people who the PSOE and other groups consider that their lives are not worthy to be lived, from here the fifty-two parliamentarians of VOX come to say that we appreciate the value of their lives, and that in the face of death, that in this proposal they are offered as the only solution to their suffering, on World Day of the Sick, we propose a law of palliative care. [[applause]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, a palliative care law because it can alleviate pain. But that's not what you want. We, in the face of suffering, propose accompaniment, propose a culture of care and propose relief of pain. You, in the face of suffering, propose to eliminate the sick, propose death. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if you talk to the professionals who face the disease every day - who, from what I have heard, none of you do - you will tell them that when you avoid suffering and feel accompanied and loved, none of you want to die, Mrs. Carcedo. In Spain more than 50% of people in the terminal phase die with pain because they do not have access to these care; and that, ladies and gentlemen, is unworthy. The party that supports the socio-communist government wants, with the first of its laws, to manifest supreme power over the life and death of its subjects, attacking the heart of our democratic system, which has as its basis the unnegotiable value of life; they turn our system into totalitarian, where the majority decides who has the right to live and who must wish to die. That's what you're going to do with this law. But they do it with false arguments and very foolish arguments. They appeal to compassion because suffering arouses compassion. Of course it arouses compassion! But it also raises respect, and you, beyond respecting it, use extreme cases to regularize the right to kill, as we are hearing throughout this afternoon. What you are dealing with in this proposal is to invest the values on which Western culture is based. This right to die is a subjective right against the higher objective value of life and against our Constitution, and it becomes an obligation of the State to kill anyone who asks for it. But not only do they aspire not to sanction the behavior of killing someone - because euthanasia is killing someone - but they aspire to be considered good, to moralize that behavior; the very strategy of abortion. They turn the State into a killing machine, because one thing is the will to commit suicide and the other is to turn the State into a killing machine and the doctors into their accomplices and executioners, destroying the necessary trust between the doctor and the sick. They appeal to a freedom, to a negative freedom that repugnants reason, considering that non-being is better than being itself. They invoke the autonomy of the will, but it is you who decide which life is worthy or not to be lived, setting up a monstrous euthanasia context. You establish circumstances based on what you consider to be a quality of life at this time. Three months ago people with disabilities were in the law; now no longer, but when the circumstances that you impose - you should explain it - that person must desire death. But that will be addicted, it will be that of the weakest, that of the most vulnerable, to whom the whole system will press - even his family - so that, feeling a burden, he may ask to die. The brutal distinction between human subjects with lives worthy and unworthy of being lived occurred in the first law of euthanasia in Europe in Hitler's Germany. The other time they were shocked; I hope you have given them time to read it and see that it is true what I say. But, in addition to ideological reasons, there are also utilitarian and economicist reasons which the doctrine contains, ladies and gentlemen. In this we agree with the PP. Today begins in Spain is slippery pending of assisted homicide. It's the answer they think about giving to a broken pension system just a week after they've climbed them, because they don't know how to do it and they resist making a sustainable system. They then decide that chronically ill people should be eliminated because they are an economic and social burden from which society should be freed. A slippery slope, ladies and gentlemen, sufficiently tested in the Netherlands, where they congratulate themselves on saving money with those 6,000 annual deaths, but 30% does not even give the consent. There is a report, the Remmelink report, which ensures what I am saying: people who have the means are registered in countries such as France or Germany in order not to be admitted to Dutch hospitals. That is a reality, and that reality is summed up in two statements: that of Teo Böer, a member of the Dutch control committee. He says - to anyone who wants to hear it - 'they don't make our mistakes', claiming that control is impossible. And the Minister of Health herself said that she had left her hands. It is no longer just the sick, but those who are tired of living. The Council of Europe, after ten years of these laws, stated that induced death must be prohibited. But I'm gonna end up talking about freedom. Because if you want us to talk about freedom, the highest of man's qualities, you today have freedom - each one of you has freedom - and that is why you have a responsibility to put this law into effect or not; a law that will bring more pain than you say you want to avoid; a law that will make our welfare state meaningless; a law that will attack family ties and patient medical relationships; a law that will bleed out and pressure the weakest in our society, the poorest and the lonely. That is what this law will do, and it will produce a slope to death that is impossible to control. You can let this happen or stop this madness. We may not see it, but be absolutely certain that in the not too distant future all these homicidal laws will be judged as an absolute horror. And I end up saying that none of these arguments appeal to faith or to religion, but personally let me wish those who pass this law that God forgives them. [[Risa.-Various Members: Thank you!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Mendez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u110	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. No law proposed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the alleviation of damage caused by natural disasters such as those caused by storms For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Ros Martínez has the floor. [[Amelie, Bernardo, Cecile, Daniel, Elsa, Fabian and Gloria]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u111	Thank you, Madam President. My first words at the beginning of this intervention must be to transfer, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, our solidarity to all those affected by the serious consequences of the last temporary events in Spain, in particular to those families that have lost their loved ones. I would also like to recall that in 2015, as today, the UN adopted the declaration of the International Day of Women and Girls in Science to promote their participation in the scientific field on an equal basis, and let me also remind the 10 women and one girl killed in what we have been carrying out since 2020 for gender-based violence, with 1043 women already murdered since 2003. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, climate change is an obvious reality that can only be denied from scientific ignorance or from irresponsibility and political folly. The search for solutions to the climate emergency has already become an emergency. We can't keep looking the other way. Political action and management must go hand in hand with scientific analysis. The forecasts to a hundred years seen have been anticipated in time. We have a new climate reality and we need to know how to manage it, we need to plan and we need to act. The recent events in Spain are another example of this urgency, since the latter has been abnormally long in time and in the damage it has caused. And because this is an issue that concerns us and concerns us, our group has tabled this non-law proposal to alleviate the damage caused by the natural disasters that have occurred in recent times and which I trust has the majority support of this House. Because in September of last year it was DANA and now it has been Gloria, the seventh storm of the season and the first of 2020, a storm that from Sunday 19 to 23 January caused strong winds accompanied by intense and persistent rains, large snows and coastal phenomena that seriously affected Andalusia, Valencia, Balearic Islands, Aragon and Catalonia, with a special severe impact on the Ebro Delta. For the Socialist Group, it is a priority to give solutions to people's problems. Our political action is to move from words to facts and this is the content and what is intended by this non-law proposal: a proposal to draw up, together with the administrations concerned, a balance sheet of the damage caused in the different territories, determining and quantifying its scope; a proposal to make the declaration of a zone seriously affected by an emergency of Civil Protection of the municipalities concerned, a proposal to apply urgent measures of direct aid, compensation to fishing, agricultural or livestock holdings, of tax benefits for the activities concerned, preferential and extraordinary credit lines and also support to the municipalities and neighbours to process these aid, and also a proposal to apply for aid from the European Union Solidarity Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an exceptional climate phenomenon that is increasingly repeated; a phenomenon that causes irreparable personal victims, but also large-scale material damage. If we act together and coordinate among all the administrations and sectors concerned, we will be able to mitigate their effects. Spain has a governing government and therefore the first Council of Ministers and Ministers has already adopted a climate emergency declaration. An inter-ministerial emergency meeting was held on 24 January to carry out an initial assessment of the damage caused, and the reports of the various ministries were analysed and the necessary procedures initiated by the Council of Ministers and Ministers on 28 January. The Government's priority is to ensure people's safety, speed up procedures to ensure that these aids reach soon the neighbours, the self-employed and the businesses concerned, that infrastructure is also restored and that cultural heritage is recovered. But we cannot make the mistakes of the past, with a Coast Law of 2013 in which a certain degree of political optimism has prevailed in the face of the raw realism of science and where the exploitation of the coast was prioritized rather than ensuring the safety of citizens. Please also be assured that the concern and occupation of this Government is that the affected areas can be conditioned for the tourist season to the extent, of course, of the material, legal and environmental possibilities. On the amendments tabled, I would like to thank all the groups because I am sure they have done so with the best intention, and I would like to mention the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group in order to amend and update paragraphs 5 and 6, where we will also pick up the Community of Aragon. I would like to announce that we will accept Amendment No 2 of More Country-Equo and Amendment No 1 of the Republican Left of Catalonia and of Junts per Catalunya, which includes the disasters that occurred on 22 and 23 October, in which human losses occurred. I do not want to end without expressing appreciation and appreciation for the good work done by the local police, firefighters, State Security Forces and Corpses, Civil Protection, emergency services, health services and, of course, all those who helped and stood by those who needed it most. I would also like to express my gratitude and appreciation, yes, to the Government of Spain, to the coalition Government, for the excellent coordination and sensitivity with the different territories. I'm finishing up. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us all to do more, better and faster to deal with the climate emergency. Let us listen to the voice of our young people, who fill the streets to claim the urgent need to act against climate change. Let us be aware of the very high cost of not acting now and of the planet that we will leave you tomorrow. In the face of political turmoil, responses, measures, dialogue and institutional coordination, which is what this coalition government is doing. I ask you to approve this proposal unanimously, not for the satisfaction of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but to help the people who are waiting for us and need us, because politics cannot be the problem for people; politics must be the solution to people's problems. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make it a reality, let us make it possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ros. In defence of the amendments put forward by its groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes in the first place, which in turn will also lay down its position. I give the floor, first of all, to Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u113	Thank you very much, Madam President. A call for Parliament's attention is always timely to try to shorten the application of aid to people and territories that have suffered significant damage as a result of the disasters associated with meteorology, which has taken place with many Spaniards in recent months and whose virulence has cost many lives and caused enormous destruction. [[The Lord]] It is very timely because very often the State Administration is delayed in the provision of resources, a regrettable liturgy that we have already had occasion to denounce in this rostrum and with governments of all colors, which have legal instruments in force, and it is precisely in these cases that urgency and exceptionality are more justified than ever. This initiative of the Socialist Group invokes Royal Decree-Law 11/2019, which in the first of its articles temporarily expands its object to deal with damages occurring between April 1 of last year until March 31, 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, it is normal for a government to act diligently with a law in force. That is not the case with Pedro Sánchez. We are talking today about disasters that occurred in the last quarter, but this government still has the aid for the serious floods that occurred a year ago, which catastrophically affected six autonomous communities, among them, by referring to the one closest to me, Asturias and twenty-seven of its municipalities. [[applause]] That is why it has tabled an amendment to add to this non-law proposal, which has just announced that it will not be accepted, so that the Government will listen to Parliament, apply the rules that are validated in Congress and strives to comply with its own decrees by costing agile and consequently the aid to those affected as soon as possible. A tight government to get on the emergency helicopter cannot be a whirlwind to manage aid to those affected by disasters. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u114	The next item is Mr Mazón Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. The Socialist Party has hastened to present this non-legislative proposal. That's very good for us. I imagine they'll have a deal with the government. The truth is that the text is very easy to draft, so is the substance of the matter. What I think can be novel is the real will to meet the urgency of these solutions. The consequences of the storms have been truly catastrophic and we will vote in favour for solidarity - I take the opportunity to send a hug to the families of the victims - and also for self-interest, because in Cantabria the storm Elsa has caused enormous damage in two emblematic regions, such as Liébana and Campóo, on the border of Liébana, in Potes, in Peñarrubia, in Valderredible and especially in Reinosa, where some truly dramatic cases not seen for centuries occurred. Luckily, we haven't had any fatalities. In the last and previous legislatures we already had two recent decree-laws on the same subject, practically with the same contents. No one has discussed urgency and necessity, but the urgent urgency seems to have been forgotten, when the images disappear is no longer news and the Government forgets. That's why I'm taking this opportunity to remind you of what I told you in September...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u116	Mr. Mazón, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u117	I'm done. The river Saja destroyed everything, we remind it, and until October 31, nine months later, the development decree was not promulgated. We are on 11 February, more than three months later, and there are still no calls for aid and we are waiting for it to happen at once and we do not have to come back within a year to see that the decree-law and the non-law proposal we are debating today are pending.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u118	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Botran Pahissa.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u119	Good afternoon. It seems to us that the PSOE proposal contemplates a series of rather superficial, necessary and urgent, but superficial actions, which do not pose a necessary model change in the management of the environments that have been most affected, for example, deltas, rivers or the coastline as a whole. In the case of the delta the problem is that the river Ebro must carry water and sediments. It is what has historically defended the Platform in defense of the Ebre, to which the Hydrographic Confederation of the Ebro has deafened, and it is what has historically defended the popular movements and the scientific community, which is the way that a delta that has been formed for centuries continues without going back to each temporal. These are the changes our territory needs in order not to be affected by the storm as it has been seen. The same is true of the rivers: that the Mediterranean rivers are overflowing has happened throughout history and will continue to happen, but action should not be taken by building on alluvial plains and, instead, to recover the riverbank forest, as is being done little by little, but not in a planned and systematized way. On the coast, the same thing also happens. The sand dredging will continue to be promoted, but the fact is that the part of the coast that has not been so affected by the wave strike has been where there were natural dunes, which is the exception on the coast of Catalonia and the Valencià Country, which is mostly built and in which there are more and more ports. That is why we will vote in favour of the non-legislative proposal. We are in favour of alleviating the effects of natural disasters, but not everything in them is natural. The depredation of the environment, capitalist developmentism, which has caused the temporary ones to have greater impact, requires far deeper transformation measures.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u120	Thank you so much. Next, for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is my first speech from this rostrum. It is an honour for me to represent hundreds of thousands of Spaniards who have voted for us and I pledge to work for them every day in this plenary room and in the committees. In fact, I can assure you that this parliamentary group will always have those measures that seek to help all the Spaniards. That was my spirit when I saw that I was going to take part in an initiative to alleviate the damage caused by natural disasters in our country, but I must confess one thing: it caught my attention that this initiative had been presented by the Socialist Party, the party of his Government, the government of Pedro Sánchez, that government which still owes the aid for the DANA, which promised them in September, when they were still thinking about the next campaign we were going to have; that government which now promises new aid and really does it in an irresponsible way. This initiative is more than the same, it does not enter into the real problem of people, it does not speed up the receipt of the economic aid they need in order to be able to start again. This initiative is a copy and paste of what does not work; it is a copy and paste of the royal decrees that have been presented on other occasions. Regrettably, Spain has been affected by numerous storms that have caused catastrophic results. They have affected different communities, such as Aragon, Murcia, Valencia, Andalusia and Castile-La Mancha. These storms have left areas that have accumulated more than 800 litres of water per square metre. These storms have brought winds of over 180 kilometers per hour, ripping up trees and stacking cars. Rivers have been overflowing, and rural and urban areas have been denied. The waves have reached 10 meters high, causing real wreckage on our coast. I want to have a word of solidarity for the families of the victims who have taken these temporary successions. Those are the most important losses really, very painful losses to which are added the most serious material damage of these devastating phenomena. We are talking about private goods and public goods and facilities, both urban and rural; we are talking about economic losses that seriously affect the tourism sector, because our coast has been badly damaged. But, no doubt, the great ones affected by these storms are our farmers and farmers, who have lost everything: they have lost their way of life, they have lost their production, their irrigation systems, the ships, the farms; they have lost everything. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not exactly apocalyptic and we are not going to think, no matter how bad it may seem to us, that this government is responsible for everything; of course it is not. It is the climate crisis, it is the climate change that leads us to have these storms so numerous and destructive. But we can do two things: the first, respond to the affected, the victims, speedily, urgently. That doesn't appear in this GNP. The second is to work not only to solve problems but also to prevent them. We regret that this proposal by the Socialist Party does not address these issues, which are very important to us. That is why we have proposed a number of amendments aimed at reducing the government's response time to make aid effective. Do you know how long those affected by the flood of the Segura River have been waiting for in 2016, also due to temporary? Two years. We also want preventive measures to be implemented, hydrographic confederations to comply with preventive measures of channel clearance, among others. Do you know that hydrographic confederations are obliged to comply with this and do not? I'm not saying it, farmers say it. We also want to propose amendments so that the government does not block possible investments from the European Investment Bank and that they reach the autonomous communities to help get out of these places. We want that aid to reach farmers who do not have insurance, who also need it. They are not to blame for not having insurance lines to help them in their crops. We also wanted the recognition of the work of the persons involved in the emergency arrangements - not in their intervention, but in an express way - to be explicitly incorporated, but not accepted, by the armed forces, forces and bodies of State security, firefighters and health personnel. We believe that by rejecting our amendments, the only thing they achieve is that those affected pass twice through the same hell. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u122	Thank you so much. Next, by the Plural Parliamentary Group - this time it will also fix its position - Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor, first of all.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to tell Mrs de VOX that I am one of those who will vote in favour and I am sure that, if God exists, he will forgive me because he will understand that we vote taking into account values as important as solidarity, piety, compassion, which seems to ignore these great Christians who want to give lessons here. [[Applauds]] Thank you. To the Socialist Party, as far as we are concerned, I would like to thank you for having taken up the amendment we made before point 6, so far as aid from the European Union Solidarity Fund is concerned, and to say that tourism is very important to the State, but it is also very important to our autonomous community. It accounts for approximately 14% of Spanish GDP and 14% of Valencian GDP; 15% of Valencian employment. Therefore, it is very important that we not only make PNL but that we speed up, as far as possible, that these aids are possible, because if someone walks through the Valencian territory they will see wreckage on beaches, promenades, dunes; in short, very large damage. I'm done. We must repair the damage, of course, because the tourist season is also approaching, but we must also start to prevent this from happening again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u124	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Sabanes Nadal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u125	Thank you, President. We naturally agree with the proposal and also with its urgency. We are all shocked by the images of the delta, of the Mediterranean coast, of all the places affected; shocked by the damage and, above all, by the loss of human lives. We have tabled two amendments. One is to say that the damage report incorporates risk management plans and environmental and urban impact assessment. We believe that it is appropriate to do so, ladies and gentlemen, because it is not only a matter of alleviating damage, but of course it is also a matter of rebuilding and restoring the coasts and beaches, of the dunes, of respecting the flood zones, the public domain, the coastal zones, the balance and the management of the riverland, of all this. That is why we wanted all these elements to be incorporated into the study, because time is running out. We just lived serious and tragic warnings, we only have one Mediterranean, we only have one delta, we only have one planet, and our obligation is to preserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u126	Thank you so much. The next item is Mrs Nogueras i Camero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u127	Thank you, President. Let me first make a preview to put our positioning in context. We don't want to live in a country with political prisoners. It doesn't surprise anyone that I come up here and say: Llibertat political prisoners and exiles, basically because I do it every time I go up. But the phrase 'we do not want to live in a country with political prisoners' was said in campaign by Mr. Pablo Iglesias. Well, Paul, today you are the vice president of the government of a country with political prisoners and exiles. Trying to make, together with the PSOE, a sanitary cordon to Junts per Catalunya we think is not a good start.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u128	Mrs. Nogueras, excuse me for interrupting you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u129	Everyone here has talked about what they wanted. I'm doing the preview. I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u130	Yes, but I'd ask you to bow down, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u131	I'm done. There is nothing more unrealistic than to pretend to erase, throw away, eliminate from the equation a large part of independence. And although this coalition government strives to say that they only speak and reward pragmatic independence, feeding the tale of the existence of a...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u132	Mrs. Nogueras, you're consuming practically all your time...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u133	It has all the meaning of the world that I can make a preview so I can position myself and fix our position.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u134	Yeah, but I'm saying it's consuming pretty much all the time...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u135	Everyone here has been able to say what they wanted...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u136	... on a non-agenda item. Please stick to the subject, I beg you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u137	The reality is that there is nothing more pragmatic than putting the will of the citizens into practice. And that is precisely what we do in Junts per Catalunya, to put into practice the will of the citizens. And you know it very well, and surely that's why we bother everyone so much, because we are the ones who make what you strive to say is impossible. They said there would be no referendum and there was, they said that President Puigdemont would not be an MEP...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u138	Your Honor, excuse me a moment, please...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u139	...and it has been.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u140	Your Honor, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u141	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u142	No, listen to me, please. He's spent most of his time. I would ask you to stick to the issue of GNP that has been presented. I beg you, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u143	At least you should have learned that this is not what you decide, that it is what the citizens decide. Today we are discussing an initiative of the PSOE in which it urges the Government to implement a series of measures to alleviate the damage caused by the storms. They are asking today, Mrs Ros, what has always been called for after a natural disaster, so the amendments that we are putting forward urge this government to go a little further, that is to say to be held accountable, not only to receive and accumulate lists of actions to be implemented, but to be held accountable. And speaking of accountability, I am surprised that the People's Party is also asking this coalition government to be accountable, when they have never ruled. So welcome to politics. How many of the measures adopted in plenary have been implemented? Which ones aren't and why? What we propose is that this Government, beyond a helicopter tour of Catalonia, should be held accountable within three and six months of the adoption of the non-law proposal. What some call intransigence we like better to call it exigency.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u144	Your Honor, you must finish. He's spent his time remarkably.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u145	I'm done. It is important to know, be and listen to the territory, and this is what the Government of Catalonia has always done. In fact, the Government of Catalonia has had its duties done for days, and now it is its turn. I end up with a no-minor point. You have a problem and it is that from the Sub-Delegation of the Government of Tarragona you generate expectations that you cannot then meet. Do us a favor and see him again. Thank you very much. Released political prisoners and exiles.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u146	Next, Mrs Pujol i Farré has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group. [[Mrs Olona Choclán asks for the floor]] Yes, tell me, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u147	Mr President, on a point of order. Under Rule 72.1, in connection with Rule 103, it is clear that the honourable Member who has now been in the rostrum of speakers has missed the decorum of this House by uttering expressions that seriously undermine the constitutional order and go far beyond freedom of expression. There are no political prisoners and the proceedings you have been describing have not been carried out and the VOX Group calls for the withdrawal from the Journal of Sessions of the speeches in which you have made references - you have called it to the order in question - which did not come, not only for altering the issue under discussion, but also for making use of expressions clearly lacking in the decorum of this House and, of course, of this parliamentary group. In conclusion, Mr President, if I may, the VOX Parliamentary Group would generally thank the rest of the parliamentary groups and the various speakers who have been speaking from the rostrum with insults and personal attacks that raise the tone of the speech, because, of course, with arguments.. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u148	Can you finish, please? In relation to what he proposes, it is clear that it has not been adhered to - and so I have claimed on several occasions from the intervener - but freedom of expression is sacred, and I believe that in this particular case it is within that sacred precept which also enshrines our Constitution. We'll continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President. Obviously, freedom of expression in this House would have to prevail ahead of everything else. [[Applauds]] On the subject before us, the temporary Gloria has destroyed the Mediterranean coast, leaving thirteen dead and a balance of damages from which it will take years to recover. These disasters are increasingly occurring and the same areas are punished without even having been compensated for the previous episode. It rained on mullat, which we would say in Catalan. The first and most important thing is to be with the victims and, especially, with the families of the deceased, to whom we send our warm support from the Republican Group. Between 20 and 23 January we have suffered accumulations of more than 700 liters/m2 in Vall de Gallinera, torrential rains in El Vallès, in the Gironines Comarques and in the Terres de l'Ebre and important snow and wind storms in numerous points of Lleida and the Pirineu, as well as the overflowing of the Tec, Arly rivers in the Northern Catalonia, Ter, Fluviá, Tordera, Serpis, Guadalope and Ciurana. All these outbursts have led to the eviction of a multitude of homes and the confinement of entire cities, such as Girona and twenty-six other neighboring populations. And the impact on the coast was equally devastating: missing beaches, promenades and maritime structures, such as the Pont del Petroli de Badalona, devoured by the storm on the Costa Brava, and the same in the Maresme, the Costa Daurada, the Costa dels Tarongers, the Costa Blanca and the coast of Levante de Mallorca. The Department of Agriculture of the Generalitat estimates that the value of the agricultural and fishing damage caused by the storm in the delta, Baix Ter and in the Tordera channel will exceed 11 million euros. The railing network was collapsed by the collapse of the bridge between Blanes and Malgrat de Mar. Other railway lines and roads were cut or affected by numerous landslides and floods. There were electrical stops, water cuts and phone network cuts. Thus, many municipalities have already requested to be declared a severely affected area by a civil protection emergency. Only in the southern Ebro area have the municipalities of Alcanar, Amposta, Sant Jaume d'Enveja, Deltebre, La Ràpita, L'Ampolla or L'Ametlla de Mar already done so. In the Ebre Delta, farmers have lost 20% of seafood production, farmers have seen more than 3200 hectares of rice paddies flooded with sea water, and we have also seen how the Marquesa beach, the Buddha Island or the Trabucador's Barra suffered large marine floods and significant impacts. Gloria's effects on the Ebro Delta have demonstrated and in the eyes of the world the threats to the future of Catalonia's largest wetland. Its future preservation requires immediate and urgent action, as reflected in the Delta Consensus Table, and comprehensive and lasting solutions that require the Government, the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation and the electricians to have different management of the basin and the end of the river. Scientists remind us that in the delta the coastline recedes 15 meters in the most sensitive places, so it is necessary a greater contribution of the flow regime and a great contribution of sediments in its mouth. In fact, Esquerra Republicana in 2016 already submitted to these Courts a motion calling for a sediment management plan for the Ebre basin, a pilot project for the controlled transfer of sediments from the Ribaroja reservoir to the mouth, obviously accompanied by a budget. If it had been accepted, the prevention work would surely be done or under way and we would not now be regretting the situation we are in. Thirty more seconds, Mr. President, please?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u150	It must be over, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u151	We must begin to work on the basis of scientific evidence which tells us that what seems to us to be temporary or exceptional today can eventually become structural. Therefore, the criteria for these aid proposed by the GNP must be accepted by all municipalities. It cannot be that some are forced to give up funds for bureaucratic demands, which are sometimes difficult to meet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u152	You have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u153	Today, the main budgetary efforts focus, above all, on remedial actions to alleviate the effects. We need to work more and more and above recovery tasks. Prevention and adaptation policies should prevail. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u154	Thank you so much. Next, Mr Garriga Vaz de Concicao has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u155	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are being debated and voted on the non-legislative proposal to alleviate the damage caused by natural disasters caused by these temporary disasters. The VOX Parliamentary Group a few weeks ago also presented a non-legislative proposal urging, in similar terms, to take the necessary and urgent measures to alleviate the damage caused by the storms throughout the Spanish uprising. I would not like to continue my intervention without transferring my condolences and that of the entire VOX parliamentary group to the thirteen victims and missing persons. From here we send a warm hug to the relatives of the victims and the disappeared. [[Applauds]] We also want to thank the enormous, generous and professional work of all the bodies and security forces involved, members of Civil Protection, firefighters, volunteers and numerous administrations involved during the most critical hours of the catastrophe. A great deal of damage has been done to articulate precise aid both in compensation for persons, housing, private land and infrastructure, and measures to preserve the fragile and damaged ecosystem, as has also been mentioned, of the Ebro Delta, for example, in Tarragona. Such damage, which is still incalculable, has had serious consequences for family members and workers in the area. From here, too, we would like to send you our full support and convey to you our determination to work to ensure that what we are expected to support in this plenary meeting comes as a matter of urgency. It is imperative that public administrations work tirelessly and in collaboration, and that they do so as soon as possible. From the VOX Group we agree on the substance of the non-legislative proposal. However, we believe that this is insufficient, and we have therefore tabled an amendment to add to the proposal for two texts. But it seems that the Socialist Group, despite being reasonable and common sense, is afraid to accept them. These amendments, first of all, provided for the detailed analysis and subsequent implementation of measures to prevent such future damage. This non-legislative proposal does not include any risk analysis measures and we believe that it is essential to work to prevent it from happening again. There was also talk of reports of damage produced and of quantifying them, essential criteria, of course, for objectively addressing particular needs, because our duty as political representatives is to respond to their problems, their concerns and the great challenges facing us as a nation. Secondly, that proposal for an addition was in line with a timetable for the implementation of the measures adopted today, because we know the times and the 'burrocracy' of the Administration, which generally despairs our compatriots. That is why we will continue to defend that proposal for an addendum that urged this Government, and we will be waiting for it to do so. I would also like to point out that insufficient provision, on a provisional basis, which we consider to be part of the royal decree, although we trust that, in the end, the ministry will allocate the necessary money for each and every region, without being led by sectarian criteria. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, do not punish those regions of Spain where they are not voted, as they have shown, for example, with the Mar Menor blocking and denying those funds from the European Investment Bank, 320 million to regenerate that treasure of environmental and socio-economic wealth, with a totally arbitrary approach. [[applause]] Now, once and for all, leave that totalitarian socialcommunist criterion which Mr Simancas has now baptized as democratic hygiene and give objective attention to his compatriots. That is their duty and responsibility. The VOX group has been close to our compatriots. Many of our Members have been pulling water out, squeezing mud, visiting the affected areas. Others have preferred to fly over the area, for the shame and indignation of many. Do you know what many of those people we were listening to told us, something the president of the government didn't do because he was flying over? They had been calling for a long time for measures to prevent what was happening on their land. We noted once again that this partyocracy has been looking at its navel for years, leaving aside the concerns of the Spaniards and being more concerned about its privileges and prebends, creating more regulations, more taxes, with the aim of collectiveizing the whole of the Spanish nation and curtailing individual freedoms. And I'm done, Mr. President. Prevention, prevention and prevention is the best way to avoid human losses, material damage and savings in public arks. For this reason, the VOX Parliamentary Group, bearing in mind certain aspects which we believe are insufficient and which are not covered by the non-legislative proposal, will support it, although we will be vigilant in order to have an early execution and, above all, in order to obtain those reports which prevent further damage to our compatriots in the future. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u156	Thank you very much. Next, for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before any other consideration I can make today, I would like to address three points. First of all, our condolences to the victims and families. No real decree-law can give back to your loved ones and their memory must be the greatest stimulus to implement policies that avoid losses in the future. [[Applauds]] Secondly, our thanks go to the State Security Forces and Bodies, the Army, Civil Protection, Health Services and NGOs, who have worked tirelessly to restore normalcy to the people who have suffered - Amelie, Bernardo, Cecile, Daniel, Elsa, Fabián and Gloria - and who today occupy this GNP. Finally, our commitment. The People's Parliamentary Group firmly believes that the consequences of climate change are an undeniable reality and that, therefore, we must work together with administrations, political groups and society as a whole to reduce their dramatic effects. I would like to convey to the Socialist Party, Mrs Ros, the support of the People's Party for all the policies that go in this direction, for all the policies that are aimed at improving the quality of life of people living in Spain and suffering from these events. The People's Party is a party of government and, therefore, it is our commitment, but at the same time, I say to you that we are not going to be a party of auto-bomb policies. We demand concrete policies that prevent and that, when events like those that have occurred, we can act quickly and diligently, because, ladies and gentlemen, things could have been done reasonably better. In the last six months our country has suffered the consequences of storms, torrential rains, snow, hail and wind as we did not remember. Everything indicates that we have entered a new scenario that will force us to safeguard, with all the strength the administrations are capable of, our natural environment, our businesses and our infrastructures, the crops of our farmers and the lives of people. Therefore, we are in a period of consequences and we can only act. Mrs Ros referred to the need to analyse and I refer to the need to do so. And I will refer to the Vice-President for Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, who is among us. He has surpassed by far the hundred days of grace that every ruler has when a responsibility begins. She has been in office for more than 500 days and what she has not successfully and far exceeded is what is expected of you, Madam Vice-President, former Minister, and your Government. The royal decree-law of September 2019 came late and was insufficient, as has been shown by the vast majority of parliamentary groups in this House. Most of the aid has not yet reached the municipalities or the affected. There is the case of Cantabria - more than two years -, there is the case of Orihuela - more recently - Sant Llorenç, where thirteen people lost their lives, the more than one hundred families of San Antonio and Ibiza, as well as a wide list of municipalities spread throughout the Spanish geography that have suffered these climatic events and that have not yet received the help of the Government of Spain. The hydrographic confederations do not work, they are not fulfilling, and it is a national cry, not to mention, Minister, of the blockades of the Ministry of Finance of the Government of Spain, as other parliamentarians have pointed out before, to the aid of the EIB to the Region of Murcia by DANA and for the Mar Menor. Neither help nor let help. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worrying that in the declaration to the climate and environmental emergency that passed through the Council of Ministers there was more bombardment than content and facts. What can those who have not yet received the aid for two years, when they see that the Government of Spain proposes for the first hundred days observatories, citizens' assemblies, new legislative texts, conventions, objectives for fifty years? Well, it would have been much more sensible than in the first hundred days, the Government would have been concerned to return normality to the people who have suffered these climate events during the last few months in Spain. We ask ourselves many questions, what has the Government of Spain done since June 2018, when it took possession, to prevent and mitigate the effects of these events? You've been ruling for eighteen months and we're tired of being told what you're going to do. What we want is for them to explain to us in Parliament what they are doing for the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to support this GNP, but we regret that you have not accepted any of the four amendments of the People's Party. You and your group talk a lot to the left, a lot to the independenceists and the nationalists, and I ask you to open that dialogue to a large part of this House, which also represents the majority of the Spanish people.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u158	You must finish, Your Honor, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u159	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. It must explain why it says no to the development of the regulations intended to develop - worth redundancy - this royal decree, why it says not to extend the tax reduction regime to local taxes, such as the ICIO or the IVTM, compensating the municipalities; why it says not to allow a special credit so that in the Region of Murcia they do not have to wait for the Minister of Finance to say yes to the EIB, the Central Investment Bank, and that we can act for DANA and also in that Zero discharge plan in Murcia and why it says not that the Minister of the Interior will appear within six months to explain and report on how the government's actions to restore normalcy in many places where these climate events have made businesses, farmers, people and many families lose everything. [[the lady]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u160	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor on a position-setting basis by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u161	Well, one more week, and we're still in the same situation. When you know the Streisand effect you will realize that it is too late. In any case, while that is not the case, I would ask the Presidency, if it is not an excessive expense, to allow a few swivel chairs, because his back is going to get rough for this which he points out. [[Applauds.-Protests]] They were saying? [[Protests]] I haven't heard. I've talked about rotating chairs, not rotating doors: I don't know why they've put on like this. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't, shut up and let me talk. This is going to be like the dentist: if they let me talk, it will be faster; if not, it will last longer. In any case, I am going to stick to the topic of the temps. We are going to vote in favour of the initiative, and we are going to do so thinking of those humble and supportive people, not their rulers, who examples, of course, do not give us too many to be supportive; yes, of all the humble people who have lost practically everything. And we join in what other speakers have said about the need for this not to be the umpteenth statement which, alluding to climate change, tells us about urgent measures to alleviate the effects of weather-induced weather-related weather-related weather-related weather-related weather-related weather-related events that are far from meeting the urgent needs of people who have suffered the consequences of such weather-related weather-related events. They have cited many examples, and they are certainly true both in the amount and in the timing of the delay. We could also talk about Nafarroa, because it is also a period of considerable delay, which makes many people unable to perceive what they need. However, as I said, we will support it. However, we believe that when we talk about the effects of climate change, unfortunately, in this House we only talk about the economic consequences and personal damage. And it is necessary to do so, but it is not enough, because the scientific panels of experts are making it very clear to us that not to act properly and in time is the worst economic solution, that is, that it is always to put patch on patch. What happened to these storms - and I do not intend to be aggravate - is nothing more than the first drops of a storm that is about to fall. Unfortunately, we will have to get used to living with extreme weather phenomena that will come more often and more virulently. That is why we tell them that we must act urgently and decisively, and the best way to act urgently is to prevent more than to alleviate. Let us hope that the Ecological Transitional Commission will really put its batteries in place and be able to bring this State to a reality that is not the one we are currently living and that is being subjected to a developmental economic model that devastates lives and devastates the environment. Because, although it may be necessary to approve ad hoc aid, the solution - as I said - does not come from trying to bring everything back to normality the day before to the impact of the meteorological phenomenon as if nothing had happened and only laying the basis for investing millions, for example, so that the coastal hotel sector continues to do what it has been doing on the coasts - it seems - of the whole Spanish State, or that some continue to fill their pockets by making gas or oil platforms that then have to close because they cause seismic disturbances, but they do so with a very important cost overrun for their own benefit. I'm talking about Castor. [[Applauds]] So, as I was telling you, be careful to do a useless work of patching and plumbing without really getting into the bottom. So, and finally, investment in adaptation? Of course it is, but transforming sectors and businesses and that really serves to take steps forward and work on mitigation and reduction of emissions. Because, the problem is not that more and more meteorological phenomena occur; the real problem is that we do not think why more and more extreme meteorological phenomena occur. That has to do - as I said - with the need for a change of economic model that leaves behind the developmentism that has inspired the economic model that we still suffer today and that does not take into account the finite limits of the planet, that does not allow it to regenerate in its raw materials as it would need because they consider it only a logistic platform. Plauto said - and made famous Thomas Hobbes, the philosopher - that man was a wolf to man, and probably so man is behaving toward the environment, devastating it, but he also does so even when he does not cause those phenomena but builds useless and harmful infrastructures, such as macro-incinerators, such as nuclear or landfills. And I end up remembering two people, Alberto Sololuze and Joaquín Beltrán, two workers who still today, after six days, remain buried by the collapse of a landfill in Zaldívar. Probably, and following the theocratic veto that someone has initiated in this session, these are not to be remembered either God. [[Pronounce words in Basque]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u164	Thank you, Mr. Matute. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u165	Thank you, President. Arritsalde on; good afternoon. Today, Mrs Ros, you are bringing us to debate a GNP that we have not really just understood, because it seems more like a marketing campaign to promote the government in an attempt to boost its reputation because it meets the needs of society, in particular through a series of aid for the areas affected by the climate disasters of recent months. And we say that it is an initiative that we do not understand, because a decree was already validated in October 2019 which contained a series of measures that could extend to those damages that occurred between April 19, 2019 and those that could occur until March 31, 2020. We therefore believe that it is an unnecessary GNP, because the Government can already take those measures contained in that decree. There was no need for this GNP. They are in the Government, it is the Government, and what they should have done is to implement those measures. We see, therefore, that this GNP is not necessary as an instrument of impetus for the political action of the Government. What we do understand is speed in the implementation of the measures and, a posteriori, what is the degree of implementation of them. Our group has already validated that decree of measures. We also said that that decree was not necessary or urgent because there was already a mechanism to implement those measures, that is, with the Civil Protection Act, but we adopted and approved it, and today we will also vote in favour of this GNP. In recent years, and as a result of climate change, it is true that extreme heat and rains are becoming more and more frequent, a phenomenon with environmental, social and economic consequences that is leading us to disaster situations at different points that fundamentally alter the living conditions of the population, of the citizenry and that cause serious personal and material damage not only in the private sphere but also in the public sphere, and that also entail a lot of high costs for society as a whole and for the economy. It is true that the scientific community has been warning since the 1990s that one of the key aspects of climate change is the intensification of extremes, and it is that in recent times the signs of climate change have intensified: rising sea level, increasing meteorological phenomena, which entail great challenges and, therefore, we must try to get ahead of them and not settle only by solving the problems caused by these phenomena in time past. Attenuation of climate change is also at the heart of the European Union's climate policies; however, the experiences and forecasts of more floods and droughts, rising sea levels and other extreme climatic conditions are increasingly driving EU public bodies to adopt measures to adapt to new climate realities. Not only must we work to mitigate the effects of climate change, but, as I have also said, we must try to adapt to these phenomena through vulnerability and risk assessments, early warning systems, etc., in addition to the agreement between all political parties, integrating these phenomena and risk management into territorial planning policies and coordinating different departments and levels of government. Through planning, we understand that greater capacity for adaptation and resilience to new climate challenges can be achieved. Finally, I would also like to comment that there is a study of conclusions and proposals from the subcommission for water policy and climate change challenges, a report that we believe should be taken into account because its objective was to provide tools for the design of prevention and planning policies in the face of the effects of extreme atmospheric events. We will therefore vote in favour of its GNP, but bear in mind that we must work on these lines and that, as I said, it was not necessary to bring this GNP here today as an impetus for government action. Thank you so much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u166	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mrs Saavedra Muñoz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u167	Good evening. First, we express our pain for the people who died and disappeared in these catastrophic episodes, the most tragic and irreparable consequence of these blights. It is these losses that force us to act to alleviate the damage caused and to plan the actions to avoid them in the future. We also want to show our solidarity with the people most affected or who have lost everything, a solidarity that does not remain in words, that has a concrete translation. In the society that we defend people who suffer a misfortune, a situation of vulnerability does not face it alone, but the whole of society is involved and collaborates to overcome it. That's what the tax justice we're defending is for. The first to intervene, in fact, in these situations have been public services paid for by all; they have acted to reduce risks, to rescue people. We therefore convey to them our appreciation for the work, professionalism and effectiveness of these public services, as well as our gratitude to the citizens who are mobilized in solidarity to help their neighbours and neighbours in the disaster. Extreme weather events are becoming more and more frequent, becoming more devastating and requiring public administrations to commit themselves to different levels of action. The first of these, because of their urgency, is to care for the people affected and help to repair the damage. Our group has tabled a non-legislative proposal for this purpose and we will vote in favour of this GNP, but we think that we need to go beyond this urgent response. United Nations We can consider policies necessary with a view to the future, which face the climate and ecological challenge that we have on top. The negationism of the right and the right puts us in danger and is irresponsible. We need cross-cutting policies, urban planning, regeneration and coastal protection, energy transition policies such as those provided for in the recently agreed Climate Emergency Declaration by the coalition government. Spain is one of the countries most affected by global warming. In the latter, the most serious damage has occurred in Aragon and the Mediterranean area. Catalunya, País Valencià, Les Illes Balears, Murcia or Andalusia have been particularly vulnerable and in my land, in Castelló, I have been able to personally check the effects of the storms in Moncofa, Castelló, Benicarló or Vinaròs, beaches that have practically disappeared, retreating to 32 meters, flooded dwellings, destroyed roads. We have all been able to see also unused roads and roads in Teruel, the practical disappearance, hopefully recoverable, from the Ebre Delta and the sand of the Manga del Mar Minor, gigantic waves in Mallorca or terrible floods in Malaga or Girona. It's not random. In this very vulnerable Mediterranean, and in the Valencia Country in particular, with twenty years of government of the People's Party, we have suffered from the bricks balls, the real estate bubble, the wildest urbanism, the construction without sightings in flood zones, in ravines, few meters from the sea, the destruction of the dunes cords, the realization of infrastructures without predicting its effects on the ecosystem, the non-compliance with the Coast Law. Right-wing policies that have placed the economic benefit of some ahead of sustainability and our lives; policies that led us to the economic crisis and that today aggravate the climate crisis. Therefore, it is necessary today, putting life in the center, to rethink our relationship with urbanism, with rivers, with nature, with coasts because this is going to go further, and we do not say it, says the Intergovernmental Panel of Experts on Climate Change. We must rethink the expansions of the ports, with their enormous impact on our beaches; recover dune systems that protect the coast from erosion. It is neither impossible nor an attack on tourism; on the contrary, it is the only way to ensure its sustainability. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot look anywhere else. We have an obligation to anticipate and ensure the future, to ensure the sustainability of life and economic activities, to promote a policy or culture of prevention and care of the commons, we must ultimately ensure that the aid we are now talking about in the future is unnecessary. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u168	Thank you very much, Mrs. Saavedra. At the time of acceptance or rejection of the amendments, I ask you, Mrs Ros Martínez, whether you accept any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u169	We will accept Amendment No 2 from More Country-Equo, Amendment No 1 from Junts per Catalunya and Amendment No 1 from Esquerra Republicana.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u170	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ros. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on the revision of the financing system for the common system and local developments. [[File number 162/000050]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u171	No bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the revision of the system of financing of the autonomous communities of common system and local finances. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to the rostrum to request your support for the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group on the revision of the system of financing of the Autonomous Communities of Common System and Local Finances. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain must already address the reform of the funding model; the model has expired, said Mrs Montero in October 2017. Three months later he ruled: '...autonomic financing determines the model of society and development that we want to achieve; without adequate funding the welfare state is being put at risk'. I do not intend now with these appointments to show a glimpse of contradictions or bandages in this government, quite the contrary. This, the reform of the funding model, is a demand coming from all the autonomous communities of the common system, the last time yesterday, when the spokesman for the Socialist Party in Extremadura was begging for a new funding model. Ladies and gentlemen, the current system of autonomous financing, negotiated bilaterally by Zapatero with the Generalitat of Catalonia, has been an absolute failure. Unfortunately, we have not been able to change it from the Government on two very simple issues that everyone will understand. Firstly, because when we arrived at the government in 2011 the fiscal imbalance that the Socialist Party had left us was so large that it prevented any action in this regard: a fall in the collection of more than 70 billion in three years and a public deficit that exceeded 94 billion euros. Secondly, as early as 2016, the socialists refused to agree on a reform that would benefit all the autonomous communities equally. However, in 2018 we left everything ready to approve a new funding model based on the proposals contained in the report of the committee of experts set up for this purpose and with the participation of all, absolutely all, the autonomous communities of the common system. But the Socialist Party did not want to approve it by ignoring the general interest of the autonomous communities. That is why we are presenting today a proposal to update and modernise the current funding system so that the principles of equality, equity, transparency and fiscal co-responsibility are now guaranteed. It is no wonder to remember these principles that we all say we accept, because the so-called Agenda for the Reencuentro looks at what you are doing by putting the names down said that Mr Sánchez's road map, that Agenda for the Reencuentro fails each and every one of these principles by rewarding the sedition with a series of privileges that will not enjoy the rest of the autonomous communities. Or do you think it reasonable for your ladies and gentlemen to increase the investment in Catalonia by 70% at the cost of reducing it in the rest of the autonomous communities? It serves as an example of my native land, Galicia, where it declines by 17%. From the People's Parliamentary Group we want a reform of the financing system that takes into account all the actors involved, such as the latest model approved by the People's Party, a system that runs away from the bilaterality concerned and that meets the general interests of all Spaniards. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, do not return to bilaterality, it is synonymous with privileges for a few and harms for the great majority. Do not confront some autonomous communities with others, do not confront the Spanish with each other. Not everything goes to satisfy Mr Sánchez's personal interests and ambitions. Do not be as irresponsible as Mr Zapatero in 2009, you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, learn from your own mistakes. Ladies and gentlemen, secondly, I would like to stress the other point in our non-law proposal, the return of the 25 billion VAT to the autonomous communities and the more than 750 million that are owed to the municipalities and to the parliaments, a matter that has generated consensus that is difficult to imagine: the autonomous communities of the People's Party, the People's Party with Citizens, the Socialist Party, the Socialist Party with Podemos, the independenceists, all of whom agree that it is a real harassment and that it is a real barbarity and something intolerable. Well, not all of them, because the Socialist Party candidate in Galicia has decided to take Mr Sánchez's side and turn his back on all the Galicians. All, including the socialist barons, agree in the facts, I repeat, all agree the facts, are very simple: The citizen paid the VAT religiously in 2017. Finance, the central government, collected it with the obligation to transfer 50% to the autonomous communities. The minister told the autonomous communities in July 2018 not to worry, that the possible problem was fixed by her in a matter of weeks and that they could count on that money to introduce it and prepare their budgets for the following year. In these twenty months of Sánchez's government, whether in office or not, they have passed more than forty royal decree-laws, most of them less urgent and of less importance than the one that could solve this problem. Finally, last week Mrs Montero tells the autonomous communities that they do not intend to give back what is theirs, but that what they can do is to be indebted for that EUR 25 billion. In other words, Mr Sánchez, the socialist government, forces millions of Spaniards to pay VAT twice, once, the first, when they made the purchase or rented a service in 2017, and the second in the future, when they have to pay the debt Sánchez owes to the autonomous communities. Can you be more disloyal, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party? Is there a greater exercise of fiscal and political trilerism? How would the members of the Government and the hundreds of high-ranking officials, advisers and trusted staff feel if, instead of entering their payrolls, they were told to go to a bank to ask for credit for these amounts? Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, this afternoon you have the opportunity to stand by the users of public health, the students, the families, the SMEs, the self-employed, the elderly, the most disadvantaged, in short, to stand by all the citizens and not at the service of the interests of one, Mr Sánchez. And please leave the argument that you do not understand the problem, because it comes from a rule adopted by another Parliament, with another government, because that argument is frankly childish. Although it is also true that it serves us to define how socialists understand this about governing. Can you imagine what would have happened if the People's Party in 2012 had acted in the same way as you do now and had said that the more than 7 million bills you left unpaid were PSOE's business and we would not have implemented the Supplier Payment Plan? Can you imagine the thousands of companies that would have shut down and the hundreds of thousands of unemployed that would have caused this? Can you imagine that the PP would not have launched the FLA to finance basic public services when the autonomous communities did not have access to financing in the markets, claiming that it was the fault of the PSOE? [[Applauds]] Because what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen, is financing basic public services. I finish now, Madam President, and I do so by quoting, as at first, Mrs Montero, who just over a year ago said: Chiqui, 12 billion are nothing. I imagine you'll remember. Many of us think: What barbarity! How can you be so frivolous with public money, with the money of all the Spaniards? And the truth is, we've sinned a little bit of naive. When a socialist handles public money everything is possible, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u173	Mr. De Olano, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u174	I'm done. I'm done. Ten seconds. 700 million euros disappeared from the Andalusian unemployed in the EREs of Andalusia with Mrs Montero, Mrs Calvo and Mr Planas at the Board's Governing Council, and now Mrs Montero herself has made 25 billion of the autonomous communities disappear and more than 700 million in the municipalities, because - in the words of Mrs Montero herself - that money no longer exists. With regard to the amendments tabled, we cannot accept any of them. That of the Socialist Group because it shows that they do not intend to return the money to the autonomous communities and municipalities; that of Junts per Cat, Compromís and BNG because they insist on a bilaterality that we reject on a level for unfair and insolidary; and that of VOX because it would absolutely render the object of this non-law proposal ineffective. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u175	Thank you, Mr. De Olano. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Rego Candamil is speaking first of all by the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, look where we agree that the funding system needs to be changed. That is true, we totally disagree with your model and, therefore, we have tabled two amendments. We already know that you - in general, the right ones - are a lot to standardize - and if we neglect, also to standardize - but the reality is that in the Spanish state you coexist different realities, for which to apply equal solutions, as you propose here, can be a mistake and an injustice. In fact, there are already two different funding models. Well, noting that at least for Galicia the current financing system has failed and harms our interests, the BNG is committed to a system of concertation which implies that the Galician Administration has the normative and tax collection capacity, through a gaggle facet and, therefore, also the subsequent determination through bilateral dialogue with the State from which party to transfer. So we would correct the injustice of detracting much of our resources year after year. Do you know that the difference between what the Galicians pay the state in taxes and what the state returns to Galicia exceeds - 2017 data - the €45 billion? It is a genuine expoliation to our country, which must be brought to an end. That is why we have tabled that amendment. On the other hand, you call for the return of EUR 25 billion that the State owes to the autonomous communities. It seems good to us, but they forget to claim the 170 million euros of incentives that correspond to compliance with the spending rule. Does this mean that you are willing to give the State this money, which is of all Galicians or Galicians? Or maybe Mr. Feijoo paints so little that his party doesn't even listen to him? Or can it be that once Urkullu has called elections in Galicia you assume that you are going to lose them and, therefore, that you are not going to be able to manage those resources? [[Rumors]] The BNG will claim them at all times and everywhere and therefore we ask the absent minister to pay what she owes to all Galicians and Galicians.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u177	Thank you, Mr. Rego.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u178	The 200 million of VAT and also the 170 of the incentives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u180	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr De Olano, with all due respect and consideration, often brown who has just endorsed your party. Coming to defend a financing reform now... Good times, green sleeves! You ruled from 2011 to 2018, you had absolute majority here, absolute majority in the Senate, absolute majority in eleven autonomous communities; you had it - forgive the expression - to egg to make the reform. And what did they do? Nothing, nothing. Yes, you tell me the virtuous circle; virtuous circle that you made with the Valencians? You could change it and did nothing, you created more debt, more debt, more debt. When Mr Rajoy entered 2011, the Valencians owed 21 billion, 4300 euros per inhabitant; when Rajoy left, when Rajoy left - a virtuous circle, a virtuous circle - 46 billion, 9300 euros per inhabitant. Yes, it was a socialist system, which you could change and did absolutely nothing. More debt, that's what the PP government gave us. So, come now... Anyway, you have to be defachable. The Valencians are poor - 12 points below the average - and we pay as rich, and this year, thanks to the fact that you did nothing, and not the Socialists, we again have the honorable title of the red lighthouse: 343 euros below the average, 17 billion if we multiply it by the five million Valencians. We are almost 1000 euros from the best-funded community. I don't think this can be. Socialist gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u181	Mr. Baldoví, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u182	I'm done. ... this has to be fixed either when the budgets are presented or with the agreement they have reached with Compromís: in eight months, in September, there has to be a new financing system on top of the table. We Valencians and Valencians can't take this anymore. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u183	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u184	Thank you, President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Olano, an anecdote. I have been a member of the General Courts for eight years; eight years ago my first Senate inquiry was to Minister Montoro and asked him when they were thinking of reforming the local funding system. We then adopted a motion, following an inquiry, with the votes of the People's Party and with the votes of the Socialist Party, according to which before the end of 2012 the local funding system had to be approved, and the truth is that - I speak to you as a mayor - the credibility of these Chambers in relation to the local administration and the autonomous communities is less zero, it is absolutely null and void. Look, both the People's Party and the Socialist Party have had the opportunity to put forward these reforms. We have tabled an amendment not to discuss the principles, a very simple amendment: before six months, reform of local financing; before six months, reform of autonomous financing; with a singularity for Catalonia, a very simple singularity to comply with: a system of own financing, that a Catalan tax administration has the power to collect all taxes in Catalonia. You do not agree with this amendment either. In any case, we also reserved the possibility, of course, that the Government would not have to compensate if it did not have to pay, that it would have to pay back the outstanding 25 billion of VAT, because it is a shame. And it is a shame the proposal made by the minister the other day, the EUR 433 million that owes Catalonia owes them and will have to pay them. We don't settle for more deficit! The biggest deficit is to make investments, not to make up for a debt, one more, that the Spanish State acquires with Catalonia. In any case, I am sure that no one will approve the State's General Budgets if they do not envisage the direct payment of these 433 million euros. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u185	Thank you, Mr. Bel. Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u186	With the venom. Indeed, it is very difficult to understand the intelligence key to the presentation of this non-legislative proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group because, as some speakers have said, and I share, it is not understood that at this stage we are going to propose a reform of the autonomous financing system in the first part of the GNP that is being debated. This is taking the accessory for the main thing. VOX is not in line with these short-flight approaches and the pursuit of a calamitous state of affairs. We do not understand how we can intend to continue with this never-executed intention of reforming the autonomous financing system without really addressing the problem of which it hangs, which is the territorial model of State. This is a lack of rigour, it is a political inconsistency, it is a total lack of realism, because there is a widespread discomfort in Spain about the autonomous system, about the territorial model we have, and therefore, as I say, this lack of rigour and every logical sequence in the approach of a debate like this is not understood. The autonomous system we know - which VOX does not share, without prejudice to its substitution allowing decentralization, but not in the terms in which it is currently conceived in Spain - is a system that poses a chronic risk to national unity, the best example is the Catalan crisis, which erupted and lasts in a state not different or less severe than that of its explosion, the inequality between Spaniards, the multiplication of outbreaks of corruption with client networks and the rotation of partisan vices that contribute to the degeneration of a political system as a whole. VOX has a regenerationist attitude towards this and therefore does not share the continuation of this state of affairs. Moreover, it has economic consequences: the unsustainability of the system in general. It's empirical evidence. In 1990 there was already an OECD report which said that it was impossible to multiply administrative levels for economic reasons, and I do not believe that this international body is suspicious of anything and less of sharing any of the ideas, in the ideological order, of the group on whose behalf I am speaking at this time. In addition, these economic consequences are also consequences relating to an increase in the incidence of economic corruption, a deterioration in political life, a breach of the public exemplary duty of the rulers and, ultimately, an injury to the moral and social order. In this situation, which some will say I present as apocalyptic - they will know what the apocalypse is in their creeds, if they have them, I also know it -, we have to attend a duel of titans between PP and PSOE, in which the one and the other say that he has done more the first than the second and the other than that to contribute to that system and, on the other hand, an exchange of demerits and reproaches that serve no purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we are calling for in this proposal, which we are not going to vote in favour because we have tabled an amendment to delete the first part, the one concerning this will to reform the autonomous financing system, the expert report of 2017. Page three of the report, so that you can see that what I have just said is not the fruit of my harvest. Experts say: Over these decades the system of financing the autonomous state has evolved without an explicit design of where it was intended to go in the long term. At first it was improvised and, at the end of this initial stage of improvisation, successive financing agreements have resulted in a gradual increase in the tax autonomy of the autonomous communities and an increasing complexity of the model, without resolving the underlying equity problems. The end result has been a complex and untransparent system, with serious problems of equity and efficiency. And then he mentions that all this is the result of successive funding models. Well, under these conditions, ladies and gentlemen, VOX is going to abstain from this proposal, although it would be in line with its second operative part, concerning the 25 billion VAT, a credit which they have contracted - credit in a civil, budgetary, in no way in a loan sense - with the General Administration because of this famous immediate information system implemented during the mandate of Minister Montoro. Therefore, even if the abstention does not serve to support that second part, which we believe should be worthy of our approval, that second part can be implemented in another way, as has already been announced by the different Autonomous Communities, in order to be satisfied with that credit, which, as I say, has not so far been disbursed by the General Administration. I'm done. I would like to say that none of the amendments tabled deserve our approval either, some of which, as has been said here, go too far in this vocation of an autonomous system which constitutes an intellectual misappropriation and a failed experience in its financial part, in its part of financing also for many years now. They've contributed to that misappropriation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u187	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u188	I'm done. First, the centrist governments, then the government of the Socialist Party for fourteen years, then the government of the People's Party for eight years, then Mr Zapatero for seven years, and finally Mr Rajoy in his term of office. And today we are in this deplorable situation with this Government. I didn't say anything...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u189	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u190	I'm done. I have said nothing about the Socialist Party and company; it is not worth it. I interpret that everything that is said here will give rise to a comment that we are fascists, homophobes and xenophobes. Just like we're talking about lettuce or the aeronautical industry. [[Laughter]] Let's talk about what we talk about, they always say the same thing and I think they act with... [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u191	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u192	Thank you, President. Today, the People's Parliamentary Group is presenting a non-legislative proposal for the revision of the system of financing the autonomous communities of common system and local finances. This proposal is quite opportunistic and certainly the People's Party has no will to solve anything or agree anything. We're not too surprised either. Although we have had very little time in the legislature, we are already quite clear as to the course of action on the part of the People's Party: to criticize a lot and ask for solutions to those problems that they themselves have not been able to solve in a long time. Let us make a reminder of the issue we are dealing with today. The current autonomous financing system was born in 2009. The Autonomous Financing Act itself established its revision in 2013. The PP Government failed to comply with its obligation. With regard to the settlement of VAT, which has caused some discomfort in some autonomous communities, we must remember that this problem was caused by the modification of the settlement system carried out in 2017 by the People's Party government with Minister Montoro at the head and, knowing the problem, they also did nothing. But let's go further, let's go to the most important. The financial insufficiency that constrains the autonomous communities and local entities causes underfunding of essential public services, but you already know that. It was you, through your reforms, who left our welfare state in the bones and the consequences are quite racist public services today that suffer citizens every day throughout this country. They have a lot of face when they come now to ask others to account. Estimates of under-financing in the 2009 model amount to about EUR 20 billion per year. This financial insufficiency of the autonomous communities must be included in a public finance model which, in general, lacks effective instruments for obtaining resources. This situation is largely the result of the rather irresponsible tax reforms promoted by the People's Party in 1998, 2002 and 2015, which weakened collection capacity, as well as reflecting a very limited commitment to the fight against fraud. We already know that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are more tax amnesty to the letter than to fight fraud. The data are clear: 8.2 points less income on GDP than the European average; this is about EUR 96 billion. But there is more, the financial insufficiency of the autonomous communities has to do with laws that you passed; just to quote them, the Budget Stability Act or the Local Government Rationalization and Sustainability Act. In short, the financing problems of our autonomous communities and municipalities have generated them to a large extent with their policies and with the governments of the People's Party. Frankly, I believe that neither before nor now, I really believe that this dream has never taken away from the underfunding of municipalities and autonomous communities, which do not have sufficient resources to provide adequate public services. I'd dare say that you're more into privatizing... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u193	Mrs. Garrido, excuse me. I pray a little silence, it is difficult to hear the intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u194	I was saying that I would dare say that you are more likely to privatize, remarket and cut benefits and rights. Where we see a right to be guaranteed, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you usually see a business niche and you don't care whether it's a public service, a service of general interest or an essential good. I set the example of housing; you sell public housing, so much needed and so little, in that way, you also cash in and benefit the economic elites, and we in the United States We are more than fighting to guarantee the right of all people to decent housing at an affordable price. [[Applauds]] Therefore, in this Confederal Group we firmly believe in the need to reform the autonomous financing system to ensure economic sufficiency, fiscal sovereignty, territorial cohesion and solidarity of the system. The priority objective must be to ensure the necessary funding with an agreed timetable that allows for such quality public services and services, and in this task we can be sure that the United Nations will be working, working and working, and instead I believe that other political parties are neither expected nor expected. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Garrido. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u196	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is clear that today your poor conscience is reflected in this initiative, in which you premeditatedly hide that they are the source of the problems you denounce. For you the least important thing is the solution, for you the only important thing is to wear down the government. It is enough of so much confusion that they are generating, because all they are doing is weakening the democratic system. [[Applauds]] It is absurd and has no guarantee of success in seeking to match the revision of the funding system with the presentation of the new budgets, as we are asked to do. It is clear that presenting it without an in-depth debate with the communities and with the municipalities is called to failure, hence our replacement amendment. Funding reforms are a commitment that is reflected in our investment agreements and are a priority of the Government that will be agreed with dialogue and responsibility, in accordance with the timetables set out in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and the National Commission for Local Administration, as it cannot be otherwise. A model that guarantees the principles of equality, equity, transparency and fiscal co-responsibility. Secondly, we are also tabling an amendment because we want to record the need to alleviate the harmful effects that the People's Party Government has had on the implementation of the immediate VAT information system. Because the fact that Minister Montoro in 2017 allowed VAT taxpayers subject to this monthly settlement system to pay later, that is, after the 20th day, caused the last settlement of the 2017 VAT month to enter in January of the following year, according to the cash criterion in the General Regulation of Collection. With this, what was generated were less income than originally expected for the communities in the final settlement of 2017, which is practiced two years later, in 2019. So there hasn't been any retention. There is no withholding of income from the Treasury. In fact, to solve it, it is not true that you today, with your initiative, are proposing an imminent return; it is not true, you are missing the truth, because you simply know that it is not possible. They propose to change the overall approach to the liquidation of funding system resources to address a specific problem, a whole nonsense that would generate more problems than benefits. So, ladies and gentlemen, stop confusing the citizenry. We cannot erase Montoro's decision in 2017, we cannot change the past, we can only alleviate the harmful effects that his decision caused. [[Applauds]] That's what the Minister of Finance is working on. In fact, it has already announced that that decision on regulatory change will not affect the community deficit, and measures have been provided to avoid any Treasury tension that might have caused, and therefore will in no case affect the provision of public services. It is curious that leaders of the PP who urged to paralyse the handling of the 2019 budgets, where precisely what they were doing was to prevent the rapid solution to the problem proposed by the minister, be those who are now fueling the damn mantra 'Spain steals us', trying to wear it down to the government to try, precisely, to collect electoral revenue. And the best example of this, the Galician President Feijóo, who has just advanced the elections, who has made a bold silence to the person who generated the problem and who is now revealed, without blushing, to those who are trying to solve it. [[Applauds]] Look, do you know why the city halls and communities are so angry? Because Montoro's last mistake has been nothing more than the drop that fills the glass of the bad politics of the People's Party, and I refer to the evidence: they did not review the financing model when they should have done it; they weakened the communities, because they designed a system of loans with very high interests; moreover, they tried simultaneously to turn the municipalities into mere administrative units. So who is going to believe in you this GNP that you are presenting to us?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u197	Mrs. Blanquer, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u198	I'm done. Montoro launched a centripetal force that pushed towards centralism and used the economic crisis as an instrument of ideological reform. Ladies and gentlemen, from those dusts come these muds, so I am not surprised that they have such a bad conscience and present us with this GNP. [[Applauds]] Let the government work. Hardly, in such a short time of government the minister can correct all the misappropriations of the Montoro era, but we do know that a stage of hope has been opened where the autonomous communities will have much more funding. If they want to help the autonomous communities, they now have a chance: to approve the stability path proposed by the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Blanquer. Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u200	Good afternoon again. This GNP has two parts, one is the community funding system and the other the VAT gap of 2017. We are going to vote in favour, but I would like to make a few comments. With regard to VAT, the position of the PRC has no nuances: the Government must enter the amount corresponding to the Autonomous Communities. Time limits can be negotiated, but they cannot be exchanged for loans, no matter how good they are. Secondly, on the financing system, I would like to make a few nuances. The consensus of the autonomous communities was essential, and the minimum required was the current status and guarantee of the effective cost of public services. But under no circumstances do we want to hear about the fiscal balance between autonomous communities and the state, because this would be as serious as transferring this concept to people, imagine yourself, in the IRPF, in Social Security or in the issue of pensions. We need solidarity and, for that, we already have the Convergence Fund. There is another important issue. The idea that the population is currently underrepresented in the system is sometimes transferred to public opinion. Well, that is not true, because it must be remembered that 97% of the funding is for the population, for the population with different nuances; it can be a net population, it can be an equivalent protected population; a population under the age of sixteen and a population over the age of sixty-five. This accounts for 97 % of the Guarantee Fund. Therefore, we should not always continue to divide between the number of inhabitants, because this would make totally inoperative the principles of which we talk so much about equality, equity, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. I now give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, one closes one's eyes and it is tremendous: Mr De Olano saying what the Socialist Party and the Socialist Party were saying what Mr De Olano was saying. Of course, I do not share the preamble to your GNP. I am going to support it on the content, but I find it really regrettable. You didn't do it because you didn't want to. I have to say to the Socialists that what number would the Minister of Finance have assembled if Minister Montoro had told her what she said yesterday. I'm telling you about the Canarian Community. The Canary Islands goes to the Council for Fiscal and Financial Policy; we do not have VAT, that does not affect us, and the Canary Islands has surpluses such as Navarre, Balearic Islands and the Basque Country; and it turns out that those who do not comply, Minister Montero will increase the deficit capacity. Hey, and the Canaries that make it bother! Why? Because the surplus in the Basque Country, which has the Balearic Islands and which has the Canary Islands is used to increase the deficit of non-compliance. You have to eat that! But above all, I remind the Socialist Party of one thing. Do you remember when the money was in the municipal deposits because it was not allowed to be spent by the People's Party government, with the social needs of the municipalities and the proposals you brought here - which I supported - and these gentlemen voted no? Well, it's already worth 26 billion what we have from the municipalities, which are holding up the deficit rates in this country that Brussels is asking us for. It cannot be; and it cannot be that the autonomous community has 525 million euros and cannot invest them in health, education, social services. And this is not Ana Oramas' speech. It was, until a few months ago, the Socialist Party's speech as well. We demand a model of a system of autonomous financing where funding is for the actual cost of services, and any Spanish, canary, Malagasy, have the same services, fundamentally social, live where you live in this country. We're gonna be at that table, but we're not gonna shut up. We are not going to shut up like the President of the Canary Islands, who is happy because a committee is going to be set up to study the surplus of the 8000 municipalities, those 27 billion and those of the Canary Islands. The commission was created and the conclusions of that commission on the surplus of the municipalities and communities are since September by your government with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities. No study commission should be set up; the resources that do not have to be in the banks themselves must be provided; they must be at the service of the citizens; those are the municipalities and the autonomous communities and, above all, the compliance agencies, which are being punished. It is benefiting those who do not comply and transferring our surplus to finance the deficit of communities that have not complied with the rules of play. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u204	Thank you, President. I begin with a previous one, and that is that if the People's Group comes to us today to talk about funding, it is imperative to remember that today it has skipped the news that they are calling to declare Mr Aznar and Mr Rajoy, among others, for corruption. It is fair to remind you that you are the most corrupt party in southern Europe and that you are a disgrace. [[Rumors and protests.-Mr González Terol: The PSOE!-Applause.-Several Members: The PSOE, the PSOE]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u206	We are not going to vote for this proposal today, firstly because it makes sense to confront people and, secondly, because it seems incongruous and contradictory to us. I quote only one of the reasons you put forward: you boast of the creation of the FLA and of financial sustainability and then criticize the PSOE for the cuts in Brussels' deficit issues in Andalusia, when its debt policy is the same: the debt policy imposed on us by the troika. Therefore, you - you have already told them several times - are making a partisan and determined use of what is now of interest to you. We have decided to intervene because it is clear that the crisis of political, territorial and economic legitimacy of the Spanish State is becoming increasingly evident, and this reinforces our political thesis, which is the construction of the Catalan countries as a political, economic, social and national alternative. We are concerned that certain independenceist, sovereignist forces from the Catalan countries and other parts of the Spanish State will bet on the well-known fish in the cove. For us the only alternative to justice is self-determination. Funding, from our perspective, is directly related to the sovereignty of peoples, to economic self-determination, to the public ownership of all kinds of resources and to the democratic and popular management of these resources.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u207	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u208	I have to admit that the first will of our group was to abstain from an initiative that is being proposed is measures for those autonomous communities that enter into the so-called common funding regime, and it is not the case of either of the two autonomous communities from which we came, nor of the Basque Autonomous Community or of Nafarroa, but I must thank the spokesman of the People's Party... [[Mrs Beltrán Villalba utters words that are not perceived]] Let me finish or ask for the floor. [[Mrs Beltrán Villalba utters words that are not perceived]] Already? You're leaving me? [[Rumors]] I'm gonna have plenty of time, I don't have much to say, but you can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u210	As I said, to the extent that neither Nafarroa nor the Basque Autonomous Community are communities that are subject to the common system we thought to abstain, but the intervention of the representative of the People's Party - to be thanked - has been enlightening and has achieved something that from the parliamentary forum must be acknowledged when we take politics seriously. He's managed to move our position, he's moved it to no. We are going to vote no for this initiative because what you are proposing to us, what the People's Party, and also other right-wing parties are proposing, is a fallacy, from our point of view, and I will not deny that it creates a certain perplexity for us to talk about equality in order to guarantee access to public services. If the right is rushing to remove the Succession Tax in the transmissions of the millionaires to their descendants where it governs, Madrid, Canarias, La Rioja, Murcia, Extremadura, Andalusia - we must remember that in all of them they have bonuses of 99%-, or eliminating the Heritage Tax in Madrid or lowering the autonomous type of the IRPF, this only leads us to the higher decile, 10% richer, pay less percentage of their income in direct and indirect taxes more contributions to Social Security than the rest. And it is that the higher percentage, the richest 1%, pays even less than I have previously pointed out, and that is also an expert figure. The motion spoke of some experts and I quote others, those who nucleate or surround Mr Piketty, for example. You guys were talking about equity. What equity did they mean? To the vertical: to pay more who has more? I fear not, because when we see all their policies we recognize economic and fiscal policies that lead to the opposite. Or did they tell us about horizontal equity? From that which has to be produced by the transfer of resources from one autonomous community to another, when you, in those places where you govern and which I have mentioned before, have been for decades with political, economic and fiscal guidelines that intend to make Madrid a megaurb, eliminating or cutting basic services such as health, teaching or transporting closeness to all small and not so small peoples. It will be that perhaps this from emptied Spain has not come because yes and that there has been a political intentionality in which there is an emptied Spain to strengthen a great metropolis; and even in that they are not original because the great metropolis already existed in Europe. They also talk about transparency, and it is curious that they talk about transparency when we are denied information on any sensitive issue. I could quote many; I will quote one: we still do not know what the successful police device of your government in Catalonia cost on 1 October. But it is also curious to be told about transparency, as you have already remembered, when the autonomous communities that you have governed have become the examples that we all always set to talk about opaque communities and communities that draw public resources to spend them on private hands, which is the beautiful way - not to offend them - that I have come to point out corruption: I could talk about Madrid, Valencia or the Balearic Islands. They talk to us about more things; they talk about fiscal co-responsibility and you could even... [[Mrs Beltrán Villalba utters words that are not perceived]] Mrs. Beltran, let me finish. You ask for the word another day and talk about what you want. I'm usually quiet, as you'll know.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not engage in discussions. Mr Matute has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u212	As you speak of fiscal co-responsibility, I will tell you one thing: the system of economic concerts could be generalized. Do it for all autonomous communities. We are not going to oppose you trying to set up a system of economic concerts or improvement laws, because what is to be said is that the concert and the improvement law carries a risk: if we collect less than we expected, we do not have a state father or an autonomous liquidity fund that solves what we have not collected. Therefore, if you want, do it, that there is no problem, because what is curious is the patriotism of portfolio, the patriotism that makes someone very Andalusian all his life, but that then he has his entire portfolio of declaration in Madrid; for example, the lords of Alba. I conclude with two conclusions. That we defend the economic concert and the improvement does not make us insensitive to be in solidarity with the working class of the Spanish State, because we fully understand that they suffer and suffer from governments that are dedicated to pampering the powerful to undermine public services. We also tell you that a funding proposal that does not clearly mention the autonomous communities with their own funding regime, what it does is to move forward on a path of standardization and re-centralisation on which you will face us, but this I know is also not a novelty for you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u214	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Today we are discussing in this plenary a non-legislative proposal, tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, which urges the Government to submit a review of the system of financing the autonomous communities of the common system. Mr Olano, it is the great promise of your group that you did not fulfil when you were in government, and that you were with an absolute majority. It is a revision that should have been addressed in 2014 and that now comes to call again and again as an offensive policy towards the new government, but the truth is that, on the one hand, it comes to demand a reform that you were unable to address and, on the other hand, it tries to solve a VAT error that your government also committed. We are therefore witnessing a deja vu, a situation that has been going on since 2014 and that has never been closed for lack of agreements, and this should lead to a reflection because what is at stake is ensuring the well-being of citizens. As you know, the autonomous financing of the common territory does not directly affect the outlying communities, but indirectly because there is an economic relationship and, therefore, we will reflect on this GNP, but always from respect for the positions of the different groups. Autonomous communities demand a model for more resources and for addressing public policies. There is a political and also social demand that should be addressed, a revision that must be understood as an opportunity, of course, to strengthen not only economic stability, but also the welfare state in a system that, unlike the foral, is based on a criterion of necessity by which State funding is received to cover the competences that have been transferred to the autonomous communities. There is a multi-national reality and we believe that the funding model should be reflected to improve sufficiency and financial autonomy. It would be necessary, in our view, to combine fiscal responsibility with expenditure capacity or, in the same way, fiscal responsibility with autonomy. There is a need for a review of the system based on the consensus of the autonomous communities and, therefore, also of the various political parties at a time, in addition, still economic growth and, therefore, with more resources to address this challenge. In this GNP, moreover, it is urged to compensate for the VAT gap of 2017 in view of the GNP that its group presented in 2018, which does not solve the local problem of the municipalities with regard to VAT, voting against this group for this and other reasons, and also because it understood that there was a better solution proposed in the preliminary draft general budgets of the failed State. Nor are we going to reproduce the problem arising from the implementation of the immediate information system and, surprisingly, once again, that it was your group that ruled when it was implemented, that did not take into account the consequences that were supposed to arise from it, and that now you ask for a solution that did not come at the time. The preliminary draft general budgets had already come to give a solution to this problem which was not approved and, therefore, the rest is history. To date, the only solution offered by the Government is last Friday's proposal, in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, to give a greater margin of deficit. In fact, all this seems more like a partisan struggle than a real will to solve the problems that the autonomous communities have. Basically, in this discussion, also about VAT, what underlies is the revision of the system of financing the autonomous communities of common system. It is therefore necessary to address the shift from the financing model of autonomous communions to a more just, transparent and simple system that improves funding to tackle social services, health, education, effectively and efficiently by ensuring economic sufficiency. For this, of course, we believe that a debate with rigour and political responsibility is necessary, in which the economic, financial, fiscal and social criteria that are precise and respect differentiated systems are agreed. In any case, it also has the Report of the Committee of Experts for the revision of the autonomous funding model as a starting point, which will require an agreement between the Autonomous Communities and the Government. As I said, they have the opportunity to reach agreements; they also had the opportunity today to reach an agreement between the various parties through the amendments tabled and to put aside that partisan struggle, but, for what Mr De Olano has communicated here, it seems that the differences today are insurmountable. That is why we will set a position after observing the whole debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u215	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mr De Quinto Romero has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, governance does not consist of being with institutions for their own benefit as if it were a loot; governing is to understand that one assumes an immense responsibility for all citizens to have voted for them or not, and for all autonomous communities to govern them or not. [[rumors]] To govern is to understand the obligations that this entails and the first is to behave with some institutional decorum, which includes not lying to citizens and not blackmailing autonomous governments because they are not at the service of the Council of Ministers, but at the service of citizens. It is paradoxical that Mr Sánchez fills his mouth with that of plurinational Spain - something that he has never just defined or told us of how many nations it is - as his Government does not address the autonomous communities and twists the law to suffocate them financially. Let me freshen up some recent episodes that support what I say. As you were in office, you were shielded in forceps reports to the state's attorney to deny the updates of the deliveries to the autonomous communities. Do you remember? They said it was legally not possible if they were not invested, but suddenly they decided to call elections and, surprisingly, they pulled a new report out of the joke that already allows them to unlock those deliveries on account. They announced it without falling into shame at an election rally, as if a legal obligation of the Government could be converted into a gracious economic donation from Mr. Sánchez's own pocket. [[Noting Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, President of the Government]] Do you know what that is called, ladies and gentlemen? Singing and manipulation. I'm on it. Formed already what you call Government of Progress, you take ownership of part of the VAT of 2017 that should have been reversed to the autonomous communities - it is 25 billion of the wing - and this appropriation is perpetrated while promising the gold and the Moor to those who have been disloyal with Spain, committing, for example, to forgive the VAT to TV3 of the usurper president, Mr Torra. Are you not ashamed that even an autonomy governed by your own, such as Castilla-La Mancha, has given orders to your legal services to file a complaint on an oversized basis? Are you also going to say that Mr. García Page is judicializing politics? Many feel that behind that appropriation of the money of the autonomous communities is their attempt to cover that shameful gap between promised spending and invented revenue, from that fake budget they want to sell to Europe. But the top line is when Minister-Medical Montero, in charge of palliative finance, offers to compensate the autonomous communities for this non-payment by allowing them to be in debt 2 tenths more in 2020. To understand us, it's like the bank tells you: look, I don't give you back the money I accidentally took from your account, but I grant you credit for the same value. That's exactly it. For know that you will have us in front of you if what you intend to do is to keep those 25 billion that you had to go to health, dependence, education - which you care so much about - to use them as payment to those who facilitated Mr Sánchez's investiture, both by their vote and by ordering abstention, as did some convicted political criminals in prison, who some erroneously call political prisoners. Finally, a minimally serious government cannot financially drown a region like Andalucia, claiming the very same Minister of Finance that Andalucia failed to meet the 2018 deficit, just when she was then a tax advisor there. Lords of the evil so-called Government of Progress, you do not govern for the citizens, but you rule from weakness to finance with the money of all the nationalists' road map, who are the ones who protect them, who are the ones who allow them all to be there, tight in that blue bank. You don't believe in Spain or in your autonomy. How will you believe in them if it bothers you that in those where you do not rule we lower taxes to generate prosperity! It seems that for you, gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, it is only legitimate to exercise the competences that an autonomy has transferred if it is to implement your policies, those that have caused so much unemployment and ruin here and also there, on the other side of the Atlantic. For all the above, I say that we are going to vote in favour of the two points of this non-law proposal, but for our part I would like to point out that our small but relevant - yes, Mr Simancas, relevant parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u217	Mr. de Quinto, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u218	I'm done. ... It is going to do something that the ten Members who make up it have shown us to know how to do in our previous professional life, which is to work hard 'until Saturdays', and to work hard to develop a constructive and firm opposition that prevents your government from destroying our country too much in this legislature. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u219	Thank you, Mr. de Quinto. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u220	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Mr de Olano, I say to you that we are going to vote against this GNP - what a surprise, eh? -, basically because you are hypocrites who do not believe in the system of autonomous financing, however much now the clothes are torn in your defense. You do not believe in a decentralized State, nor do you contemplate the possibility that the autonomous communities or the municipalities can carry out their own policy, and you have shown it on countless occasions. You are the party that from the government promoted the fiscal stability policies of 2012 that have led to the end of the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities. You drowned the treasury of the communities, and the only solution they came up with was the FLA, that is, granting loans, forcing the autonomous communities to pay interest credit for resources that were already theirs, which contributed to aggravating the problem. You are also - we will always remember - the party that pushed 155 and the financial control of the Generalitat; an empirically proven disaster, as is being demonstrated in the Commission of Inquiry of the Parliament of Catalonia; therefore, do not be surprised by the null credibility that inspires us. Our conclusion on the funding system is clear. In forty years of operation, the current model, far from reducing regional inequalities, has increased them. This model has meant that Catalonia, for example, has a permanent tax deficit equivalent to 8% of GDP. And the same can be said of other regions, such as the Valencia Country and the Balearic Islands. The current government of the PSO - what a pity that the minister, who was here, is now not here - has many urgent needs regarding the fulfilment of its financial duty towards the autonomous communities. Last summer the Generalitat de Catalunya already brought the state government to court for breach of its financial obligations. At that time, the State was holding 874 million in liquidation of the financing system. To this should be added the 443 million VAT, which should have been settled last year and which we still claim today because they have not been paid. We must not forget that they are resources belonging to the citizenry and that they are responsible for strict application of the law, that law which they so like to use as a bold weapon. We stand against the current model of financing, inefficient and unfair, which ends up harming users of essential public services. Our solution passes - you know perfectly well - through full fiscal sovereignty, but in the current management of this terrible model we will claim up to the last euro that corresponds to the citizens and public services of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. Mr De Olano Vela, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u222	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u223	Thank you very much. It will therefore be voted on in its terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u224	We turn to the next item on the agenda, concerning the accountability of the Permanent Chamber of Deputies of the Congress of the last parliamentary term to the present House. This matter will be submitted for approval by consent at the end of this meeting. We shall call the vote. [[Pause]] As we call for a vote, I will allow myself to make three reminders of the start of the legislature: the first reminder is that the times for interventions are to be fulfilled, not that they are indicative, they are times to be followed. Think that today, Tuesday, without motions, we are finishing the plenary session at about nine o'clock in the evening. I'm telling you to think about it. Secondly, I would also like to remind the House, or to tell and inform many new Members and Members that recordings and photographs are not allowed in the Chamber. - Rule 98.3 of the Rules of Procedure. And, thirdly, let me also remind you that there are hangings outside the Chamber so that you do not have to put your clothes on your seats. Thank you very much. [[applause.-Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. First of all, we vote for the proposal of the Murcia Regional Assembly to reform Organic Law 4/1982 of 9 June on the Autonomy Statute of the Murcia Region. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 338 plus 2 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 319 plus 1 telematics vote, 320; abstentions, 19 plus 1 telematics vote, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u226	Consequently, the proposal for a reform of the Autonomous Statute of the Region of Murcia obtains the vote of the House of Commons in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u227	We shall proceed to vote on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is an organic regulation of euthanasia. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 plus 2 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 201 plus 2 telematics votes, 203; against, 140; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u228	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u229	Let us proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals. No legislative proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to alleviate the damage caused by natural disasters such as those caused by the temporary Amelie, Bernardo, Cecile, Daniel, Elsa, Fabián and Gloria. We are voting on the terms resulting from the incorporation of Amendment No 2 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sabanes, Amendment No 1 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Borrás, and Amendment No 1 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 343.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u230	It is therefore adopted unanimously. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on the revision of the financing system for the common system and local developments. [[File number 162/000050]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u231	No bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the revision of the system of financing of the autonomous communities of common system and local finances. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 104 against, 180 abstentions, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u232	It is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-11-CD200211.u233	We then proceed to submit for approval the accounts of the Permanent Chamber of Congress of Deputies of the XIII Legislature to the Chamber of the XIV Legislature. Can it be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] As a result, the accounting system is approved. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine and five minutes of the night.
