ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Today the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies is meeting again to hold a session of control of the Government, thus giving continuity to the exercise of its constitutional functions, as it has been doing since the beginning of the health crisis in which we live. At the beginning of the session - which will once again have the assistance of a majority of the members of the House - I would like to express, on behalf of all citizens, the gratitude of everyone for the work of the health personnel and those from other places who fight the pandemic or ensure the conditions and safety of the rest of the citizens. Likewise, we send a loving embrace to people who suffer from the disease and look forward to their early recovery. We also express the pain of the House for those who have died and we convey our deepest condolences to their families, friends and companions. In his memory, the Board of Spokesmen agreed yesterday to keep a minute of silence. [[The ladies and gentlemen present in the Chamber, stood up, kept a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u2	Thank you very much. In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the exclusion from the agenda of the current sitting of item 18, corresponding to the urgent inquiry of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, to the Fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, to set out their responsibilities as coordinator of the process of de-escalation, as well as the general lines on which this new phase is to turn. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The reference point is therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u3	We begin with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u4	Mr. Sánchez, how do you rate our country's situation with the pandemic?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u5	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u6	Thank you, Madam President. I believe that yesterday's data from the EPA is sufficiently eloquent. Indeed, we are facing a very serious economic and social situation and that is why the Spanish Government has acted on three areas. The first of these and the most urgent is the creation of a safety net: firstly, for companies, through the ICO lines that we have put in place; secondly, for workers, through the ERTE and, without a doubt, also through the cessation of activity provision to self-employed workers, which has benefited one million self-employed workers; and thirdly, for families, with social services and social care-related budgetary policies and with subsidies for housing and electric social bonds for the payment of electricity and water. The second area has been to put in place - and yesterday we announced it because we approved it in the Council of Ministers - a plan of de-escalation to re-enact our country while we save lives and guarantee the public health of citizens. The third area focuses on the social and economic reconstruction that has to be carried out in both Europe and Spain. In this sense, Mr Casado, I encourage you and your group to leave your position uncompromising and to add and to tie their shoulders with the Government of Spain, because that is what they demand, they long for and need the whole of Spanish society. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u7	Mr. White Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u8	Mr Sánchez, the first thing you have to do to get out of this crisis is to tell the Spanish the truth, and you are not doing it. He lied when he said they could manifest safely on 8 March. Why did I hide the World Health Organization's warnings and not take measures that would have halved the contagious, according to Fedea? He lied to health professionals by telling them that they would be protected, but they already have the highest number of infected people in the world. Can you explain this purchase of fraudulent material to socialist intermediaries or suppliers investigated by bribes, to whom they have paid commissions? He lies to the OECD when he gives false data on the tests, he has even commissioned the CIS electoral survey rather than the seroprevalence survey. Can you tell us how you're going to guarantee the descalation if we don't know how many asymptomatic people are going to take vermouth, according to your words? He lies about the numbers of the deceased; we knew yesterday that, according to the Carlos III Institute, there could be more than 45 000, comparing those of the Civil Registry of recent years. Why not declare today the national mourning for victims and family members? He lies to autonomy by accusing them of false cuts and telling them that he is going to give them a health fund, which is basically what he owes them, while they are being cut off from training and VAT. Why don't you go to the General Commission of Autonomous Communities tomorrow and talk to them instead of that Sunday chat where the press from the day before tells you about it? And lie to the European Union about the double deficit, because you spent EUR 20 billion in the middle of the election campaign. Are you going to ask for the ransom, as the Italian Prime Minister and yesterday the Moody's agency say? And how much would it cost the pensioners, the unemployed and the civil servants? He lies to SMEs and self-employed people saying he was going to give them EUR 200 billion, but he only gave them 7%, coinciding with an EPA that already shows the employment catastrophe. Can you tell us when you are going to pay ERTE benefits to 4 million families who have been without any income for a month? And he lies when he says that they are not taking advantage of this crisis to advance his radical agenda. Why does he not defend the king from the attacks of his government, from judicial independence, from the independence of the media, from the freedom of education or from the freedom of the Spanish to express themselves on social networks? He also lies when he says he wants to agree heartily with an opposition that has to be heard on television again about his plans for descaling and prolonging the state of alarm. Is that the democratic normality that you now want to coin? Mr. Sánchez, I used to say Tarradellas that politics could make anything but ridiculous. You, if you want, can keep doing it, but don't ask us to do it with you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u9	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, it gives me the feeling that you spend all your time criticizing the Government and you do not have time to study or at least to learn about the measures being taken by the Government. It happened to you a few days ago with the measures you announced to the transporters and that the Government of Spain had put in place forty days ago and the same is true of so many other issues that you are putting on the table. Look, Mr. Casado, you're asking about the economic and social situation. That is what you have raised in the agenda. And I tell you there are exits and exits from the crisis that we are suffering right now. This crisis, Your Honor, will certainly not serve as an excuse to abandon, for example, agendas such as the just ecological transition. Nor will it serve as an excuse to cut off the welfare state, which is what you did when you ruled in Spain and are doing in autonomous governments over the past few years. [[Applauds]] It is not going to be an excuse, Your Honor, to continue to precarious labour relations, to abandon a tax system that has to be much fairer, to have a much stronger welfare state and, without a doubt, Your Honor, it is not going to serve to abandon those who are now suffering more forcefully the consequences of this stoppage of economic activity. Your Honor, that may be ideology, yes or no; it may be ideology, but, above all, it is a longing for social justice with which this government empathizes and, therefore, we are not going to leave anyone behind. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GALVAN ERJON, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT MEASURES IS GOVERNMENT GOING TO TAKE IN THE MATTER OF AID AND EVALUATION TO THE PRIVATE SECTOR? [[File number: 180/000107]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u11	Question by Mr Íñigo Errejón Galván, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. President, I'm not going to ask you about any conspiracy theory. What measures will the Government take with regard to aid to the private sector?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u13	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón, and thank you for the tone of the question. Finally, I have told Mr Casado before and I reply to you that since the confinement, since the decree of the state of alarm, what the Government of Spain has done has been to create a triple network, a social shield. Firstly, for companies, through ICO lines, to guarantee liquidity to many companies, especially small and medium-sized and autonomous. We are talking about a sum of EUR 20 billion, which was launched practically by announcing the state of alarm, and there are another EUR 20 billion, up to the EUR 100 billion we have committed to maintaining and sustaining the productive fabric of our country in this unprecedented economic activity that we are living not only in Spain but in the world. Secondly, in order to protect workers, not only those employed on behalf of others, with ERTE who are benefiting more than 3.5 million employees in our country, but also, logically, with termination benefits, self-employed workers, or with unemployment benefits or compensation, to groups who did not have it, for example, eventual workers, who, logically, have been the first to be expelled, as unfortunately happens in all the crises, demonstrating the shortcomings of our labour market in these first weeks, as we have seen in yesterday's EPA. And thirdly, logically, this safety net also covers families. Not only have we put in place housing aid, whether on property or rent, and for self-employed groups and SMEs, but we have also put in place measures such as the electric social bonus; in short, measures to alleviate this precarious situation that families are experiencing in the first person. We still have one outstanding task, minimum vital income, which is one of the parliamentary commitments of this Government. What we have agreed has been to advance this parliamentary commitment, and we hope that in this month of May we will be able to put that new pillar of the welfare state in motion precisely for those people who are suffering the most and who are less protected as a result of this crisis. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u15	Mr. Errejón Galván.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. We agree that this crisis is a huge shock to our country, forcing a huge common effort for health emergencies and for social and economic reconstruction, and that this effort is only possible because we have shared institutions, because the State condenses social cooperation and makes immense country umbrellas. That umbrella is in force and has to be in force for everyone, including the big companies that throw the most dividends and those that during the good times have a hard time talking about the public and when they are badly given they run into the arms of Dad State. But if the Spaniards are going to rescue the private economy again - as we already did - and we pay as a country, we have the right to decide as a country. Today the editorial of the Financial Times said, we have the right to set certain conditions for large companies that want to receive aid, conditions in terms of environmental sustainability or employment generation or conditions in terms of taxation: whoever wants public aid has to be aware of all their payments in our country; one cannot be Spanish to collect and then Swiss or Andorran when it comes time to pay taxes. Intermón Oxfam, in its last report on the subject, said that in 2018 up to 800 subsidiaries used Ibex 35 companies to evade taxes, failing to pay around €32 billion in our country, which is more than 35% of the Ministry of Health's budget that year. Neoliberals always say that where money is best is in the citizen's pocket, but this crisis shows that this is silly, because when a pandemic comes you can't buy a piece of ICU, you can't buy a piece of hospital, you need to have public services. Well, the crisis leaves asking a question: Where are those €32 billion better, in Switzerland or in Spanish public hospitals? You know, Mr President, that many Spaniards have a great deal of difficulty in taking advantage of the aid that has been put in place and many are on the way to the small letter. My question is simple: will there be any conditions, as we said in our last amendment and as Austria or France have already adopted, for large companies to benefit from public aid? In that regard, I would ask you for a compromise: can you commit yourself to making public aid unique and exclusively for large companies that have all their tax payments in Spain and that do not host tax havens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u17	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u18	Mr Errejon, first of all, I would like to say that we are indeed empathizing, as I said in another question, with the demand for social justice on the part of the citizenry. Secondly, we are clearly directing all liquidity and liquidity guarantees to small and medium-sized enterprises and to self-employed workers, which account for 98% of these lines. With this, we logically empathize with that social justice and will not abandon the entire social justice and ecological transition agenda to which you referred. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED FRENCH BALDE, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE MANAGEMENT OF THE HEALTH CRISIS CAUSED BY COVID-19 BY THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN YOU PRESID? [[File number 180/000105]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u19	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u20	Mr Sánchez, how do you appreciate the management of the health crisis that your Government has done? And I'm specifically asking if you're going to recognize any mistakes in managing that crisis.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u21	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u22	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is, every week I'm asked about this, Your Honor. Last week I was asked by Mr Casado and, indeed, I have said this: not only the Government of Spain, no Government in the world, no European Government and no autonomous government, of which your party is a party, can presume to have been right in everything; we have been right in some matters and we have been wrong in others. I can assure you, Your Honor, that the errors of the Government of Spain I assume in first person. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u23	Mr. French Ball.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u24	Look, Mr. Sanchez, we've reached out to you, but that's not a blank check. You have to be accountable to the Congress of Deputies and, above all, make self-criticism to learn from mistakes and not repeat them again. You have been late in managing this crisis - the same information had other countries in our environment and arrived earlier - and, above all, you have failed to provide us with PPE and testing at the time. They improvised with the State Official Gazette, those bulletins at 11:30 a.m. that returned workers to their jobs without knowing under what conditions. They had to rectify with the kids. Today sportsmen don't know if they're going to be able to go out on the street and train. Wouldn't it have been better to talk to the social partners, the autonomous communities and the opposition? Yesterday you announced to us a plan of decontainment, first, unilateral, without any consensus; we found out on television. Wouldn't it have been better to listen first and then announce? His plan lacks a phase, the phase of calling the opposition. When is that going to be, Mr. Sanchez? September? Secondly, it is full of inconsistencies; it seems that we can go to the terrace of a bar to have a beer, but not to see our relatives. Thirdly, you have created disconcertingness, there is nothing but listening to the entrepreneurs of the hotel industry last night. Fourthly, it is an insecure plan: it has only been forty-eight hours since the serological tests began and yet it makes decisions without knowing the results. Fifthly, Mr Sánchez, this is not a serious plan or a safe plan, this is the photo of Mr Iglesias in the supermarket making the purchase. What you have created has been a concern, a lot of concern: in families, who do not know if they are going to have masks; in health care providers, the most infected in the world, who do not know if they are going to take the tests; in self-employed people, who do not know if they are going to be able to lift the blind, but they do know that they are going to have to pay the quota of self-employed people. Yeah, it takes a decontainment plan, but it's safe and serious, and this isn't. Improvisation is already changing for wisdom, unilaterality is changing for consensus, but above all, Mr Sánchez, you are up to it. The Spaniards are asking for it. Today, you're not giving the size.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u25	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, before you referred to the fact that we do not recognize mistakes. Every time I come here they ask me whether we have made mistakes, and I say yes, that we have made mistakes, but it is also true that all European countries and countries of the world have arrived late and that Spain has acted before; that is so. If you look at when the state of alarm was decreed based on the number of contagions we had compared to that of other countries, you will see that it is obvious that we acted before. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all have to do that shared self-criticism exercise. Its party is part of such important autonomous governments as, for example, that of the Community of Madrid, where there has been one of the main outbreaks of the epidemic. For example, in the media we have heard that the contract will not be renewed for health workers, doctors and nurses in the Community of Madrid, almost 8500 people who have been hired to fight the pandemic in the Community of Madrid. Perhaps your party, which is part of that autonomous government, would have to reflect on and strengthen the welfare state and the health system in Madrid, because I insist, Your Honor, we have not yet defeated the pandemic, even though we have controlled it thanks to the measures taken by the Spanish Government, among others. It also happens in the community of Murcia, where you govern with the People's Party, which has recently approved budgets in which not only is the national health system cut, but also envisages an increase in the salary of the autonomous president of Murcia. Therefore, if we speak of mistakes, of the demand not to be self-complacent and of being self-critical, Your Honor, it would be very good for your party to do so too. In any case, I am left with the best, and it is that you extend your hand to the Government of Spain for this joint task of social and economic reconstruction, and to that we are ordered, Your Honor, to rebuild our country socially and economically. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED THEODOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND SECOND AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHAT FUNCTIONS IS THE SECOND SECOND SECOND SECOND SECOND SECOND SECOND SECOND SECOND SECOND SECOND SECOND SECOND SECOND IN THE CRISIS OF COLONAVIRUS? [[File number 180/00113]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u27	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Iglesias, if the People's Party were ruling today, you wouldn't be here asking questions, you'd be surrounding our headquarters in Genoa, you'd be burning down the street, you'd be asking the head of our president. You would be doing what you best know how to do, politicize the pain, use the pain of the victims, because you are better at organizing a crash than managing a decontainment. Under your care, Mr. Iglesias, 16,000 elderly people have died, and this is not a number, this is a drama. I remind you that the goal of imposing a single command wasn't a chair on the CNI, it was saving lives. He does not apologize in the data of the autonomous communities, because - as President Sánchez said - there are no communities of the PP or the PSOE, what there is a sole responsibility for which he has to answer. And in this panorama I ask you: What functions are you taking on in this crisis?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u29	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Mr García Eggea, as Vice-President of Social Rights, my role is to coordinate social policies in the Government, in a context where the economic and social crisis caused by COVID-19 puts a large part of our compatriots in a vulnerable situation. We have done some things, probably not enough, but that everyone recognizes as the largest social shield that has been built in the history of our country. We are now working - as the President of the Government said - to ensure that in May there is a vital minimum income, which serves not only so that many people in need can fill the refrigerator, but also so that businesses and self-employed people can continue to bill, because that vital minimum income money does not go to accounts in Switzerland, goes directly to consumption. And despite the tone and aggressiveness of his intervention, my responsibility is to reach out to him again, because we have to do this as a country, not as parties. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u31	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u32	Your Honor, this crisis shows the best of our nation: the people who make it up; the handover of the Police and the Civil Guard, to whom members of your party attack; the solidarity of the Army and the Crown, to which you despise, and the commitment of entrepreneurs, such as Amancio Ortega, to whom you demonize day by day. But the crisis also brings the worst out of politics: politicians who put ideology before health, those who put their personal interest before the good of all. In view of the futility of that vice-presidency and of you in this crisis, as it does not help, we ask you not to interfere at least. The elderly that you forget were the children of the postwar period, were the parents of the transition, were the grandparents thanks to whose pensions were overcome the crisis of 2008, they are the best generation of Spaniards in our history; therefore, I ask you, I demand you, to protect our elders and stop indoctrinating our children. And now, Mr. Iglesias, you can put on that tone that you usually use, serene and paused, when you want to hide the truth of what you think; that paused tone of not having raised your fist in your life, of not having broken a plate, but not believing it already in Podemos. I don't understand President Sanchez trusting you. There was a Pablo Iglesias who founded the PSOE and there will be another Pablo Iglesias who destroys the PSOE and ruins Spain. For the second thing, it will have us, this whole group and all our governments in front of us, because our goal is to protect people and not to protect a government that falls to pieces, like yours. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u33	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u34	I say this to you with all appreciation, Mr García Eggea, I believe that the main opposition party deserves a content of interventions in the control of the government that is better than what you have expressed here. Look, you and I can have many ideological differences; we could talk here about the privatizations of your party, the cuts and how the public has become faced with the health, social and economic crisis. In the thanks you made at the beginning, you have drawn me attention that did not include health professionals. It's okay to thank the State Security Forces and Corpses, it's okay to thank the king, it's okay to thank some businessmen, but how could you forget about health professionals, from doctors and nurses, to cleaning workers, who are playing life and health every day? How is it possible that that's not in your speech? [[Mr. García Eggea, pointing his finger to Mr. Vice President and Minister of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, Iglesias Turrión: You, you]] And don't point your finger at me; I'll keep holding your hand, even if you don't like the tone. There are cross-cutting consensuses in this country. The people who vote for your party, Mr.Egea, do not want to see any more cuts in public health and bad wages; the people who vote for your party do not want to have a relocated industry that cannot manufacture breathers again; the people who vote for your party want to see not a government, but a country defending our interests in Europe. Stay away from VOX and return to the Constitution, Mr. García Aegean. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF WOMEN MONTESINOS AGUAYO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENT: IS THE GOVERNMENT COMMITTED TO REPORT PUTUALLY AND TRANSPARENCY ON THEIR DECONFINATION PLANS? [[File number 180/000116]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u35	Questions to Vice-President Fourth of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by the deputy, Don Pablo Montesinos Aguayo, of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, apologize to the Spanish. In the midst of the health crisis, when transparency and accountability are most needed, opacity has marked the management of this Government. And the People's Party - which also - has not said so, it has been denounced by the main journalists' associations when, for example, you refused to answer without filters. Therefore, I ask you, even more so after Pedro Sánchez's chaotic appearance yesterday: Is the Government committed to providing timely and transparent information on its decontainment plans?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u37	Madam Vice-President Fourth of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u38	Mr. Montesinos, good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. My first words are dedicated to the professionals, to the people who are sick, to the deceased and to the relatives of the deceased. I join the expression of gratitude, affection and condolences expressed by the President. This Government, as it has done so far, is of course committed to maximum transparency, dialogue and understanding in a context of uncertainty, complexity and the need for answers and affection for all the Spaniards who expect us to respond together. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u39	Mr. Montesinos Aguayo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u40	Vice-President: 'Sánchez wants to legitimize censorship', front page of the ABC newspaper. 'The government uses CIS to justify media censorship', cover of El Mundo. "There is no worse virus than censorship," La Razón warned. The problem, Minister, is not the questions, the problem is not having an answer, and the best way to fight the bubbles is to report truthfully. News of the last few hours - he has been able to hear it in the SER, he has been able to see it in the Sixth, in all the media -: 'The government was inflating the data of the tests carried out to presume that we are among the first in the world'. Yesterday, President Sanchez insisted on that bubble. Who is to blame, Minister, for the media to report, this party for denouncing it or the Government of Spain for not telling the truth to all Spaniards? And no, Madam Vice President, the Civil Guard is not to minimize the climate against government management. For all this, I urge you: Forgive the Spaniards for the politicization of the CIS, for that of Spanish Radiotelevision, for trying to silence the voices against the government and, most importantly, compromise to rectify. It defends here today the freedom of information without half inks, activate again the portal of transparency. Make an amendment as a whole. No more rectifications and bandages. Stop missing the truth once and for all, Madam Vice President. And most importantly: We are not going to get out of this crisis with less democracy; that is why I ask you to repeat with me: more masks...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u41	Thank you, Mr. Montesinos Aguayo. Madam Vice-President Fourth of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u42	This Government maintains an absolute commitment to transparency, democracy and the defence of its citizens, especially those who are having a bad time in an unexpected context, in an unexpected and extraordinarily complex context that affects not only Spain, but a very large part of world society, and does so in a committed, supportive way with those who are experiencing it the worst. It has kept a level of transparency beyond doubt: with the presidents of the autonomous communities, the president has already met on seven occasions; the minister of health, with the health advisers, in an interterritorial council that has been meeting at least twice a week at the level of advisors and a few times at the level of technicians; we have also been doing so with all sectors of society and with all the academics, who feel they have a lot to contribute on how to answer those questions for which there are still no clear answers. The truth is that we also have an enormously important level of transparency: daily information on the total cases by PCR, broken down also by autonomous communities, last cases in the last twenty-four hours, recovered, hospitalized, use of ICUs or deceased. And from this moment on we will also have significant information, thanks to the indicators that we have agreed with the autonomous communities in relation to what we have called a descalation plan: how we are recovering normality on the basis of health security and how, thanks to these epidemiological indicators, but also of social, economic and mobility order we can go on insurance. So yes, we are willing to lend ourselves to any information that citizens ask of us. What we're not willing to do is submit to lies, infuses or bubbles like the ones we're hearing these days. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT'S PLAN OF DISCONFINATION? [[File number 180/000106]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u43	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u44	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Ribera, Madam Vice-President Fourth, what plans does the Government have to start decontainment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u45	Madam Vice-President Fourth of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. Yesterday the President of the Government made a comprehensive presentation, and later the Minister of Health and I were sharing the master lines of that plan, which is today public and on which we will continue to work with full integration and inclusion of opinions and the way in which we can improve to reduce the uncertainties that we still have ahead and go on for sure.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u47	Mr. Ruffian Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs Ribera. I've seen the press conference, I've seen it. In fact, it is the only source of information we have, something that should reflect not only on you, but on the whole government, if they want to maintain the spirit of the 180 Members of the motion of censure. I say this as Vice-President Fourth, but above all as responsible for the descalation. And I tell you very clearly, how much do you care about the legislature? How much do you care? Do you care a lot? You don't care much? Are they aware of the alternative not to dialogue, not to inform, not to get along with us? It's Torquemada Abascal and her colleagues. That is the alternative, those who consider that eating is socialcommunist. That's the alternative to not talking to us. Mrs Ribera, it is now 47 days of state of alarm, it is now 47 days without competence and, above all, it is 47 days without dialogue, without consensus, without coordination, learning about things by press conferences. If they had called us, we would have told them that it makes no sense to go and cut their hair at a hairdresser before you could go and see your mother - it doesn't make any sense - that it doesn't make any sense the territorial criterion by provinces - it doesn't make any sense - unless you're breaking up employerly and confining up skills, and we don't want to believe that. I will be very clear and very sincere: end the state of alarm, return the competences to the autonomous communities and, above all, dialogue, consensus. And I remind you that the alternative to us is them, those who would give the worker of the month a mask as a month's prize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u49	Madam Vice-President Fourth of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u50	Mr Rufián, I thank you for your proposal to work together with the parliamentary groups on this issue, because, indeed, being critical is very important and we still have many things ahead of us to resolve. I have taken note and, together with the Minister of Health and waiting to be able to organize us properly, I trust that I can have a debate and an in-depth exchange of views on this. We wanted to give priority to the health security of our citizens on the basis of the strengthening of fundamental capacities, such as health care, epidemiological monitoring, the monitoring of contagion and the capacity for self-protection of our society. There is a second fundamental principle: graduality. We will have to learn to protect ourselves, to be co-responsible, in order not to take risks, and this means that, following the recommendations of the World Health Organization, the European Union and epidemiologists, we will have to go in stages, gradually, assessing what each of the steps we take in the recovery of these spaces of family well-being and economic well-being means. And we must be aware and respectful of the autonomous state, a possibility of organizing a National Health System on the basis of seventeen autonomous systems that contribute to that National Health System and in which indicators, metrics, the ability to face all relevant information, because we know that the virus does not respond to geographical limits of any kind, can allow us to move forward calmly, but also by facilitating that those territories that have a solid basis for facing reality without any kind of health risk can go more quickly, with full transparency towards citizens and making decisions in which it is the autonomous communities themselves that propose what this territorial unit is, with full support for their health monitoring capacity, capacity for mobility and also capacity to respond if we need to take measures to ensure the solvency, health of citizens. It is a system in which we will have to learn to do it all together, because to a large extent depends on co-responsibility... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u51	Thank you, Madam Vice President Fourth. - OF THE DEVELOPED CAYETANA ALVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESION, TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: HOW DOES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE VALUE THE DEcalIFICATIONS OF THE VICE-President UNDER THE JUDICIAL POWER? [[File number 180/000118]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u52	Question to the Minister for Justice. Mrs Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Thank you. Minister, I'm going to tell you facts proven by Justice. On January 31, 2014, Isabel Serra, now spokesperson for Podemos in the Madrid Assembly, addressed a police officer in the following terms: You are cocaine, a bad mother, a whore. With everything we've been fighting women, you lose everything. They don't even want you your own mates. She yelled at another, "Son of a bitch, you fuck all the city cops." Shame. If I were your son, I'd have to take a gun and shoot you. Prodigious feminism that of Podemos, exemplary sorority. Ms. Serra not only outraged the judicial police, she participated in the violence: two officers were injured. Yesterday he said he'd do everything again. For these facts she was condemned, and not for curbing an eviction, as Mr. Iglesias said. The vice president lies, and knows it; he lies to undermine the judiciary, whom he calls corrupt, because he does have a plan. The socialists, on the other hand, only have phases, four, and the Lord Churches justify and defend it. There are three judges in the government, and you are one of them, Mr. Campo. Tell me, please, why do you defend Mr. Churches' lies and his attacks on justice?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u53	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Alvarez de Toledo, I have the best opinion and consideration of the judiciary in this country. Judges, and not always in the best conditions, act under very clear premises: independence, responsibility and submission to the rule of law. This doesn't make much sense for me to tell you, I've been a judge for thirty-three years, that's my opinion. But I can assure you that it is the opinion of the Government of this nation, of each and every one of its members, that they respect and ensure that the exercise of the judicial function is carried out under those premises. You ask me about the Vice-President's statements. Look, the second vice president makes statements framed by a fundamental right, which is freedom of expression. He may like it more, less, but it is a freedom of expression that we all have, also the second vice president. And with regard to members of your party, I would not like to throw away a hemerotec, but how many statements from leaders of your political party have been incardinating and pointing out specific judges. This Government believes so much in freedom of expression that, even with what it is hearing or what has been heard here this morning, it is reaching out to it to form a pact for national reconstruction, that is what the citizens are asking of us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u55	Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Does the government of the anti-bulb committee talk to me about freedom of expression? According to their criteria, they would have to persecute Mr. Iglesias. I'm not saying that, I'm talking about his operation to kill Montesquieu with the lie, which is what he's doing. I'm going to tell you why socialists defend Mr. Iglesias. First, most obviously, out of necessity. Without us, they're nothing anymore. With Podemos they retain power, power at the cost of democratic health. And second, for something worse, for conviction. We saw it before the pandemic: appointment of a prosecutor-general from part, Mr Sánchez's explicit bet on sacrificing justice at the altar of his negotiations with the separatists. We now see it in the authoritarian drift of the Government. And we will always see it, because, despite your differences, you certainly agree on something essential, on a justice based on ideology, and not on truth. That is why, Mr Campos, today my group insists on something fundamental, that the defence of public freedoms must be part of the competence of the committee to be set up to analyse the situation after the pandemic. Spanish reconstruction is incompatible with democratic destruction. Do not confuse the new normality with the most ruinous and involutionous ravine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u56	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, I know that my assessments of more or less fortunate statements are not going to convince you, but what is clear is that those who are not going to convince are citizens, because what they are asking us today is that we resolve the biggest health, social and economic crisis that this country has experienced. Politicians - I have said this on one occasion - we talk a lot, we talk and we think of everything, and we think of what people think of everything. Let's listen to Azaña, let's lower the noise and, in that silence, let's get to work. In that silence, I invite you to join the great pact for the reconstruction of this country. I ask you to support Justice, because, as you have rightly said, it is part of what constitutes the reconstruction of the country; the lawsuit, the citizens' disputes, but also as a driving force behind the economy. A royal decree-law was passed yesterday. Support it, because that will be to support the citizens and the reconstruction and strength of this country. Only from the unity and strength of the institutions can we get better and give the citizens what they legitimately demand of us. [[Applauds]] - QUESTION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PEDRO TO BE INTURBED, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENTS: DOES THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENTS FOR NEW OBJECTIVES OF BUDGETARY ESTABLISHMENT AND PUBLIC DEBT TO THE AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITIES, IN RESPONSE TO THE CRISIS PROVIDED BY COVID-19? [[File number 180/000103]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u58	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance. Question by Mr Pedro Quevedo Iturbe, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, are you planning to set new targets for budgetary stability and public debt for the autonomous communities in response to the crisis caused by COVID-19?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u60	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u61	Thank you very much. Good morning, Mr. Quevedo. Indeed, the problems of the Autonomous Communities, Mr Quevedo, are the problems of this Government. The problems of the municipalities are the problems of this Government. Perhaps too often we talk as if the citizens are different depending on who exercises the competition. For us, it is so important that citizens can have adequate, quality health benefits in order to be able to be cared for with regard to their health problems, such as the possibility of good social services provided by the municipalities, or how to give them the pension or social security benefits that are necessary for the development of their lives. This Government is therefore working with the autonomous communities so that we can, in fact, know exactly what impact the pandemic is having on public accounts. And in that dialogue, you have no doubt in those talks, Mr Quevedo, that we will address from the Spanish Government all those issues that are necessary to continue to have a robust system and so that the autonomous communities can continue to provide the quality service of which we are proud of all Spaniards, all citizens, for having magnificent professionals, who are protecting us at such difficult times. The answer is therefore that, of course, this Government will accompany the autonomous communities so that they do not have difficulty in overcoming this health crisis, which has also become an economic crisis. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u62	Mr. Quevedo Iturbe.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u63	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Okay, we're reasonably encouraged by what it tells us. What happens is that now we need to move on to another terrain, which is that of concreteness. We, as you know, have supported the decisions of this Government in the state of alarm, and they have seemed better or worse to us, because, essentially, we believe that what needs to be done is being done. We have supported the social protection measures and we have supported the transfers to the Autonomous Communities on account; we have done all this. But there is a debate that is present here that has already been in the great recession: is it reasonable that the flexibility of the fiscal measures proposed by the European Union should be used exclusively by the central government of the State? Or is it reasonable that the autonomous communities and local corporations, which have very serious skills to attend to, essential in a context of severe decline in income, should also have a share in this flexibility? I am telling you this because the Finance Advisor of the Government of the Canary Islands sent him a letter two weeks ago asking for an urgent Fiscal and Financial Policy Council to talk about how we are moving the fiscal relaxation that the European Union is proposing to the autonomous communities and local corporations as well. And in the case of the Canary Islands, the example is very clear, and we have been talking about it for forty days. Unfortunately, we in the Canary Islands are going to have a much more worrying future than the rest of the communities for a clear reason: tourism weighs 35% of GDP and 40% of employment, and this is extremely worrying to us. Faced with this, around EUR 4 billion in the current accounts of all local corporations in the Canary Islands and the urgent need to go to debt from the Government of the Canary Islands, because the Community of the Canary Islands is the least indebted of the Spanish State and now we need to be able to go to debt, because, if not, it is not possible to face the enormous problems that the Canary Islands society will have once...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u65	Indeed, Mr Quevedo, we have been talking for a long time and we still have to continue to dialogue for all that remains of the year in order to be able to make compatible what I think a progressive government is always trying to develop, and I am aware that the Government of the Canary Islands also, that citizens can be cared for in all its dimensions, in all the needs they have regarding the welfare state, basically those provided by the health system, the social services systems and the education system, but also, Your Honor, so that we can have public accounts that do not owe future generations, because, in the same way, we will have to maintain a necessary balance between what we have to attend to and what our children in the future, our grandchildren will have to develop from the management that we have done. Therefore, you have the absolute tranquillity that this Government is going to accompany all the autonomous communities. In some cases it will authorize indebtedness, in others it will transfer. In any case, I insist on what I said at the beginning: for us it is equally worrying the situation of the Canary Islands that that of other territories and we will attend to it from the Government of Spain, with all the needs... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u66	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MARÍA SÁNCHEZ GARCÍA, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THAT HAS USED AND ABOVE THE STATE OF ALARM BY THE HEALTH CRISIS OF COVID-19? [[File number 180/000111]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u67	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr José María Sánchez García, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u68	Minister, do you consider that the government has abused the state of alarm?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u69	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, thank you very much for the question. This Government, in the face of the biggest health crisis in this country, has had to agree on the state of alarm, a state of alarm that has been extended on three occasions with the majority support of this House and always under the criteria of proportionality, that is, guaranteeing the public health of all citizens, but also respecting fundamental rights and freedoms, also trying to achieve the effectiveness of these measures in the fight for public health. And in that the great positive responsibility lies with Spanish society, which, with its exemplary behaviour, has managed to make us in a situation where we can already address the process of descalation in the coming weeks. We have also done so with transparency, transparency towards society around the measures adopted and always with a specific purpose of consensus, as we said today, to give our hand and to ensure that we can rebuild this country socially and economically among all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u71	Mr. Sánchez García.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u72	Mr. Minister, abuse is to have come to a figure such as the state of alarm to limit fundamental rights and public freedoms that admit limitation only in a state of emergency, in fraud with article 116 of the Constitution and against article 155. Abuse is, moreover, as you well know, that this state of alarm does not require authorization from this Congress, while the state of emergency does. Abuse is, moreover, that you, of 147 proposals made in the applications for authorization, have not approved a single one. Yes, only one of the PNV without material content; 146 rejected proposals. Abuse is to resort to the decree law as a source of law without reason of extraordinary and urgent necessity and on many occasions in relation to matters that are not related to the health crisis, such as the reform of the CNI Act to introduce Mr. Iglesias into that body through the Government Delegate Commission for Intelligence Affairs, or to reform the passive classes, with fears created among civil servants on account of Muface or between the judiciary on account of Mugeju. Abuse is also the use of norms for the development of such decrees that have caused enormous fear, for example, of forced leases, which call into question the right to property, which is the instrument by which the prosperity and effort of the middle and working classes in free societies is poured out. I can also mention, among these rules for the development of these royal decrees, demagogic, frankly repulsive rules, the last one in the field of education, which places as a principle the promotion of course and as an exceptional measure the repetition, contrary to what is provided for in the Constitution in its article 44, which establishes the principle of promoting access to culture, not to inculturation. Abuse is that you have omitted, on the contrary, to regulate the intervention of censors of information circulating on social networks, when those censors are with noted people and entities affected by...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u73	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez García. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, one more week you come to this House to reflect in the Journal of Exaggerations, incorrect information, when not false. Look, abuse is two and a half minutes and not talking about the health crisis. It is an abuse to be two and a half minutes and to talk about the measures that this Government has taken, but to ensure that no one is left behind. Abuse is that you haven't had a memory of Spanish society, that for seven weeks today you're staying at home, you're changing your working habits, you're changing your teaching habits, you're changing your social relationship habits. That is really an abuse, an abuse towards the solidarity of Spanish society. Your Honor, the state of alarm was agreed by the government, but the three extensions, of course, needed the permission of this House. And this House approved that extension, with which it properly considered and how it proceeded that there was no abuse. Because there can be no abuse when it is about collaborating the whole of society to overcome this health crisis, not leaving anyone... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u75	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON Jon IÑARRITU GARCIA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT TAKE IN THE CHALLENGES OF DEPROPOSED ACTIVITIES BY THE FORCES AND SECURITY BODIES OF THE STATE DURING THE STATE OF ALARMA? [[File number 180/000104]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u76	Question by Mr Jon Iñarritu García, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u77	Good morning and thank you very much, President. Minister, what measures does the Government intend to take in the face of complaints of disproportionate police action during the state of alarm? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u78	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. Last week we had the opportunity to discuss this issue in the Congressional Committee on the Interior and I will repeat substantially the same thing to you again. The State Security Forces and Bodies are working in an effective and effective way to cooperate with society as a whole, of course, to ensure the health and safety of all, to ensure equally in terms of legality and proportionality that basic services are provided, to ensure the prevention of crime in this new situation that we live in with its specificities and also in the humanitarian character. But as far as I'm concerned, in all the collectives there may be at some point an improper action and the legal order so establishes, because the police themselves, the Civil Guard itself, all the security forces and bodies, the local police, the whole, act under exemplary criteria and are the first to remove any exceptional elements that do not comply with those criteria. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u80	Mr. Iñarritu García.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u81	Thank you very much, President. Minister, 800 000 sanctions and rising, as many fines in six weeks of state of alarm as in four years of law gag. You tell me whether you intend to exceed any record at European level, because I do not think anyone sees it wrong that those insolent and irresponsible people who jump into confinement are warned or even, in the most serious cases, punished. But it looks like this is out of hand. Complaints from different bodies about arbitrariness, legal uncertainty, disproportion, and you are still wrong. Explain to us what they're going to do in the face of a new normality, because it doesn't seem easy. Between the different phases, the numerous particular cases that can be given, what recipe will apply?, in the face of doubt, hard hand or apply alternatives? Similarly, we have seen police acts of brutality, of disproportionate use of force. Of course, you pointed out last week that they're the least, and I share that I'm sure they're the least. But they are also the least recorded on the part of the citizenry, and at the moment there are dozens of them viralized on social networks. You have pointed out today that institutions have the capacity to clean up such improper actions or dysfunctions, and that is so. But in the meantime, won't you say anything? Look, we've heard you announce an investigation into Mr. Rajoy's alleged violation of confinement in his peculiar marches. Similarly, given the confirmation that the Civil Guard in police reports on cybercrimes and on the extreme right bubbles also includes citizen protests and political parties, you have said nothing. Is he not going to say anything? You're not going to investigate anything? Doesn't he get any attention? You cannot look elsewhere in such serious cases, you have to say something, because they create social alarm and the state of alarm cannot be an excuse for the violation of rights and for repealing freedoms and rights. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u82	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. I'll try to be very concise. To be effective in the criticisms must give objective facts, not generalities. To be sensitive, you also have to be very effective in giving data. Look, it's not good with generalities. The State Security Forces and Bodies are basically guaranteeing the exercise of the fundamental rights and freedoms of all citizens. Exceptional cases of major and serious dysfunctions that may occur obviously have their legal consequences in the area of liability, whether disciplinary, criminal or of any other kind that is feasible, because we are still in a rule of law, and, as the representative of VOX said, the state of alarm does not imply any limitation of citizens' rights and freedoms, but quite the contrary. We are working to ensure their health and exercise their rights and freedoms and, of course, also to protect them from the bubbles and misinformation in those terms. I say again that any improper action has consequences on a rule of law such as ours. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u84	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs BELEN TODAY JULIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: DOES THE GOVERNMENT ANNOUNCED DISSECTION PROCESS TO OPEN HOW LONG THE ECONOMY IN SECTORS AS IMPORTANT AS INDUSTRY AND TOURISM? [[File number 180/000115]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u85	Questions to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mrs Belén Hoyo Juliá, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u86	Madam Minister, you speak of new normality, and we all know that nothing will ever be like before. But the Spaniards who wake up in distress every week to know if they are going to arrive at the end of the month need certainty and confidence, and the government is not up to it. Sectors such as industry, commerce, tourism or hospitality have been calling for help for weeks, and even if they don't do it behind a banner, why don't they listen? [[Show a page of The Economist]] Behind each data there are individual efforts, and those efforts are those that have raised Spain in recent decades. You can't leave them behind, you have to open our economy and you have to start our country. Losing days means losing competitiveness and every mistake causes irreparable damage. If they had acted before, much suffering would have been avoided. Unfortunately, we cannot go back on the health crisis, but they are in time to reverse and, of course, to alleviate the economic crisis we are suffering. Minister, the self-employed, businesses, workers and their families need clear dates, they need answers to many questions that they still have unsolved. Will the provision of protective material be guaranteed? What safety and hygiene protocols will they have to apply? Where are the massive tests they've promised so much? How are you going to pay bills and taxes if you don't have income? Are they going to reduce the tax burden? How will the demand for products be stimulated? Will Spain's brand be promoted again, despite its partners, to reinvigorate our export industry and reactivate international tourism?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u87	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, as the President announced yesterday, the process of de-escalation will be gradual, asymmetric and, of course, coordinated with the autonomous communities, but always with the maximum guarantees of security, because it will coincide with me that we cannot take steps back. As you know, there are essential industrial activities that have not stopped like chemistry, pharmaceuticals or the agri-food industry and others are gradually recovering their activity. This very week they are already opening production centers in the automotive sector and next week they will finish doing so. With regard to tourism, we are coordinating with the autonomous communities a single protocol to prepare for its opening, which will be progressive and, of course, complying with health recommendations.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u89	Mrs. Hoyo Juliá.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u90	Madam Minister, if I had listened to the sectors, I would have known that they qualified yesterday as a hairdo and that, of course, they consider that these measures will bring them to ruin. It is surprising that you are not on that commission of descalation and, nevertheless, that there is room for the chief of staff of the Vice-President Iglesias. [[shows the cover of the digital newspaper the Economist.es]] Those sectors that depend on you, which you demonise and call 'private', turn out to be 40% of our gross domestic product, and what a coincidence, what a paradox, that you inaugurate this new normality with another 40%, 40% of the working population that, starting in May, will depend on the public budget...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u91	Thank you very much, Mrs. Hoyo. Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u92	Frankly, I am surprised that the People's Parliamentary Group is unaware of the reality of industry, trade and tourism, and that it is also unaware of the measures we are taking. Mr Casado - I say it with all due respect, Your Honor - is always late with proposals that we are already developing. The other day, for example, he called for a tourist promotion campaign. Know, Mr Casado, that for ten days we have been developing a promotional campaign with the slogan 'Spain awaits you', and we will continue to promote the brand Spain both nationally and internationally. Mrs Hoyo, the Government maintains a permanent dialogue with the autonomous communities, with social and business actors, within the framework of the social dialogue. As the President has pointed out, the descalation we have coordinated with the economic sectors will be gradual, will be orderly and, above all, Mrs Hoyo, will be safe. Those rushes are fine, but we have to ensure the safety of our people as well. The Government is also working on plans to support the tourism sector and industry, deepening such important issues as the adaptation of ERTE to descalation, or the development of homogeneous safety and prevention guides for the whole territory, because tourism certainly needs security in the destination to give confidence and certainty to the national and international traveller. On Monday Spain led, together with nine countries of the European Union, a protocol calling for mobility throughout the European Union, because tourism depends on the mobility of our partners. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I invite you... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Idoia SAGASTIZABAL UNZETABARRENETXEA, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO GUARANTEE THE SUPERVIVENCE OF SMALL TRADE? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000108]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u94	Question by Mrs Idoia Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJPNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u95	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister. How does the Government intend to ensure the survival of small trade?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u96	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u97	Thank you very much, President. Your Honour, the Government is well aware of the importance of small trade and its particular vulnerability to the health crisis, among other reasons, because it is a sector of SMEs and self-employed people. Hence the need to act in an urgent way to minimize its impact. To support the trade sector, the Government has, as you know, adopted a comprehensive and ambitious package of economic, fiscal and labour measures. And I take this opportunity to thank businesses and trade workers who are working on essential services for their dedication and delivery during these weeks of confinement.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u98	Mrs. Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u99	Thank you, President. Minister, general measures, yes, but valid for any sector. Trade is asking you for specific measures because, as you have said, it is vulnerable; it was already agonizing before by changing consumer habits and by the rise of e-commerce and COVID-19 can now end up drowning it by the restrictions it is going to impose. With the state of alarm the establishments of non-essential products have been closed, but the government has not limited or prohibited the sale over the Internet of these products, sales that are of course an added damage to the small trade, which does not sell because it is closed and also because of the difficulties it has to do so online, especially because many cannot afford it because of the added costs that this entails. Nor have we heard the Government about the possibility of banning, or even limiting, discounts or online promotional sales for after-containment. The small trade will not be able to compete with the big brands that, at the beginning of the exchange, when they open, they will establish these discounts. Let us not forget that the shops, moreover, have a very important stock because they have been closed weeks and have no income. Madam Minister, I am aware that the sector has sent you a letter with its proposals. Trade is calling for real planning to take care of the activity, along with a number of measures. We know the stages but not the security conditions in which they are going to take place. We need to know how, when and where and, in addition, we need to know the minimum means that they will need to open up in conditions; to open up, they will need equipment, furniture, decontamination equipment and a sufficient amount of time for the establishments to be prepared, to know the opening costs that they will have, if they will be able to make those investments and if they will be able to count on aid for this. It is essential that it is also well defined which small trade is going to be able to open up before in order to benefit from that variable time and, from what we have heard at the moment, that is not fully defined, it is only about small trade and malls. Small trade is demanding certainty and security, planning that is certainly tailored to its needs and coordinated with the territories, because it is the local administrations that know best about its commercial reality and its capabilities. It is not the same business in a city that in a village and therefore they need different solutions, and for this it is necessary to combine an articulated response between the government and the autonomous ones, which are, as I have said, the ones who know this reality best. To coordinate is not to decide one and that others abide, to coordinate requires listening, dialogue and of course reciprocity. An excessively centralized policy has no meaning for its own characteristics...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u101	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we certainly share my concern from the government and will try to answer all the questions I have. He has no doubt that this Government is supporting a sector that is essential for territorial vertebration, but also for the social cohesion of our neighbourhoods, our cities and our peoples. As I have pointed out, the Government has approved a safety net to support trade with measures such as internal flexibility, through ERTs, or the new extraordinary benefit for self-employed people, a benefit that will benefit more than one million self-employed people, of whom 25% are traders. The deadline for payment of taxes and social security contributions has been speeded up and a moratorium has been approved to deal with the rental of commercial premises. These are some of the measures that we have adopted. Mrs Sagastizabal, I welcome the responsible attitude of your parliamentary group in the validation of all the measures to accompany and relaunch the small trade that we have adopted in this House. We are coordinating with the autonomous communities - today there is a sectoral conference - and social partners a guide of good practices for establishments in the commercial sector, a guide that includes protective measures against COVID for employees but also for customers. We are also preparing a promotional campaign for proximity trade. Finally, he referred to the de-escalation plan presented yesterday by the President and, look at it, it is precisely that retail trade is one of the first to open and serve customers. We certainly work rigorously to achieve this new normality as soon as possible and we trust the collaborative attitude of your ladies and gentlemen and, of course, the co-responsibility of citizens and businesses. [[Applauds]] - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT IGNACIO ECANIZ SALGADO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH: HOW LONG DOES THE SPANISH SOCIETY HAVE TO WAIT FOR MORE THREE WEEKS TO AVAIL THE MASSIVE TESTS, THE PROTECTION MATERIAL AND THE PREVALENCE STUDY IN THE POPULATION THAT HAS ANNIVED MORE THREE WEEKS AND THAT HIS INCOMPETENTITY HAS ARRANGED NOW? [[File number 180/000117]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u102	Questions to the Minister for Health. Question by Mr José Ignacio Echaniz Salgado, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. I put question number 15 on the management of the coronavirus, as the agenda for today's plenary session contains.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u104	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your question concerns diagnostic tests, protective material and the seroprevalence study. The Government of Spain has taken steps to make our country one of the most tested diagnostics, with an average daily of between 40,000 and 47,000. With regard to protection materials, the Government has taken steps since the beginning of March to provide this material, collaborating with the efforts made by the Autonomous Communities, and today we can say that there is already a regular supply of all this material, apart from having activated the national manufacture of this material. And with regard to the seroprevalence study, it has begun this week in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities. It is a three-wave study, separated by twenty-one-day intervals, and at the beginning of next week we will have the first provisional results. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u106	Mr. Echaniz Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, while the European Union and the World Health Organization were warning countries during the months of January and February to prepare for the pandemic, you were walking around Barcelona saying that there were no public health reasons for not holding the Mobile World Congress in the city. If that had happened, Minister, today Barcelona would have twice as many dead as it has at the moment, but thanks to the responsibility of the companies that did not happen. Today, Your Honor, your director of public health, who warned you, is missing. Could you tell us, Minister, where is the Director General of Public Health? Is the most responsible in this country's largest pandemic in recent years missing? She doesn't see it, she doesn't know it. Why are you hiding it, Minister? Where's she at? What have you done to him? What do you know you don't want to introduce her? Ladies and gentlemen, the highest rate of infected and deceased people in the world and the highest number of infected healthcare professionals is the result of improvisation, one-time unruly command, falsification of data, even from the OECD, and chaos in shopping, with false tests, with defective material and with failed kits. Instead of entrusting it to serious and expert companies, you have entrusted it to friends' bars to carry out billionaire commissions in a single operation. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u108	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u109	Minister, yesterday you announced an exit plan without data, blindly, eye-to-eye, to prove. The epidemiological study to which he referred in his intervention is a study that will give definitive data at the beginning of July and is therefore a true dip. Mr. Minister, without massive tests you can't descale. Those countries that take more tests will come out faster; they will be faster to get out of the crisis, and they will also have fewer casualties. Minister, for all these reasons, you have been assured that the People's Party will not make amends in its efforts to investigate serious mistakes, to bring about justice, to demand responsibilities and, above all, to redress the grievance to more than 24,000 families, to which this failed and harmful lying government of Mr Sánchez has not even granted the slightest mourning. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u110	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, the Director-General of Public Health is exercising her powers to the full satisfaction of this minister and you have every right in the world to take whatever measures you deem appropriate. The policy is not to predict the past but to contrast projects, but above all the policy is to reach agreements. Now, Your Honor, in order to reach agreements, there are at least two requirements. The first, to have some proposal to offer, and the second and most important, above all to have political courage, political courage not only to point out problems, but also to help solve them. We are going through the biggest pandemic of the last hundred years, in Spain and in the world. You have had government responsibilities in the area of health in two autonomous communities. It should be asked whether, at this time, critical for our country, for all the countries of the world, it should not, instead of just pointing out problems, help to solve them. I believe that this is what citizenship demands, with its constant example, by giving exemplary fulfillment to very drastic measures that the Government has agreed, with the support, by the way, of this House and of its vote, working together with the autonomous communities and seeing the daily example of a set, also exemplary, of professionals who, day by day, help us solve the biggest problem of a hundred years ago. Plant yourself if it's not the attitude you should have. In any case, the Government has a permanent hand, in case you ever decide to change your mind. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHAT CRITERIA ARE YOU FOLLOWING TO SELECT TO THE COMPANIES TO WHOM DO THE PURCHASING OR MANUFACTURE OF HEALTH MATERIAL? [[File number 180/000109]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u112	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u113	Thank you, President. Minister, what criteria are being followed to select the companies that are in charge of purchasing or manufacturing health products?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u114	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u115	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the Government has already been committed for weeks to bringing as much of the necessary material as possible, the quality required, as soon as possible and at the best possible price in the context of a very important health crisis and in very convulsive markets. There is an interministerial team - Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Industry, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Defence - that validates potential suppliers to ensure that they meet the requirements to provide us with the material we need. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u116	Mrs. Olona Choclán.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u117	Thank you, President. Minister, I am starting from a premise to save us time, but above all because I am not going to allow you to hide behind it. We are well aware that the international market for health products - and, specifically, China - has become because of this pandemic in the wild West, but it turns out that this market is the same for everyone. Therefore, the question we have to ask ourselves is what are the reasons why Spain is precisely the country of the world with the highest number of deceased and infected healthcare professionals, because the rules of play are the same for all countries. The first thing I would like to highlight is that they have shown more of their total disregard for the current legality while maintaining a total opacity of the contracts, which they have concluded by finger, by the special fund for the fight against COVID in the amount of more than EUR 1 billion and which only from the 21st of April began to make public. Do you know what my experience has shown me for ten years as a lawyer of the state specializing in the fight against corruption, Minister? That the corrupt, like the rats, what they seek is darkness. When we met some of these contracts from 21 April, the first thing that caught our attention was that they waited forty days since the WHO declared the pandemic a public health emergency to conclude the first contract for the acquisition of health equipment, six days after Germany banned exports of health products. There is no doubt that we were late in the international market and when we were already very tense. But we're going to stop at some of the suppliers. They have paid EUR 263 million to a company in Catalonia that you know very well, Minister, and they have also commissioned suppliers and intermediaries who lack personnel and any kind of experience in the health field. I can also stop at the national level. Why have they entrusted the manufacture of 60 million masks to a Basque company of the Mondragon corporation that lacked any experience in the manufacture of this sanitary material? Minister, I recommend that you stop wasting your time filing fraudulent complaints. It is you and your Government that are going to face an allusion of lawsuits and lawsuits for your criminal management. Perhaps at that time I am acting as an active state attorney and asking why Spain was the country of the world with the highest number of deaths and infected healthcare professionals. Thank you, Madam President. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Rumors.Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u118	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, also to save us time and misunderstandings, since this is the first question you ask me, I will not fall into your provocations or your language. You're free to choose the language you want and I'm free to choose mine too. Therefore, in order to save us misunderstandings in case in the future I decide to ask myself, I will neither fall into their provocations nor let myself be dragged by their language that seems easy to improve. The Government of Spain, as I have told you, has from the beginning put all its efforts and resources to complement the action of the autonomous communities and provide us in the context of a very complicated market for the material we needed: protective equipment, invasive mechanical ventilation equipment and all the products, as well as the diagnostic tests that were needed. In two lines: the purchase of these products where they were available and using all possible mechanisms to do so. For example, we have used the emergency procedure, with which we have complied with rajatabla, giving publicity when it has touched on all the contracts we have concluded so that you and any citizen can see the details of the purchase: suppliers, price that has been paid, delivery conditions and specifications of the product we have purchased. The second line we have worked on, and with great pride, is that of activating the national manufacture; for example, of the Mondragon group, of the Hersill group in collaboration with Escribano, of the company Seat, of the company Siemens and of so many others - there would be an endless list - that have put all their efforts in being able to manufacture in our country the products that it needed. It seems to me that this is patriotism, Your Honor. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN ESPINOSE OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE THIRD GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT PRESENT AN ENTERPRISES NATIONALIZATION PLAN? [[File number 180/000110]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u120	Question to the Third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Third Vice-President: 'To be a Democrat is to expropriate, even if it hurts you. To say express yourself, that is democracy. What would a decent ruler do? Expropriate. Do you know whose words these are? I imagine you know that, because they are neither Lenin's, Fidel Castro's, Maduro's, Chávez's, nor any other left-wing dictator who is so fond of some member of his government, but they are one of his greatest followers, his second vice president. We are no longer surprised that the second Vice-President threatens our head of state and that the President of the Government defends him; we are no longer surprised that he threatens our judges and the Minister of Justice, who is a judge, defends him, but I would rather believe that you are going to face the threat that our Vice-President is putting to the economy. Madam Vice-President, correct the second Vice-President, correct him. Or does the government have a plan to expropriate and nationalize our businesses?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u122	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u123	Thank you very much, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, this government has a plan, which it has been carrying out since the first day, to respond to this pandemic, and it is to respond in health, social and economic terms with a set of packages, with an ambitious set of measures that you know well, since they have been validated by this Parliament. This is the plan in which we will continue to act in the coming weeks and months, in support of our productive fabric and of all the citizens of our country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u124	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u125	If what we want is to save the productive fabric, Madam Vice-President, what we don't have to do is threaten to expropriate it. Let us focus on what we have been saying for a month and a half: liquidity and employment. If he had listened to us on the subject of employment, we probably wouldn't have the EPA data we had yesterday. The VOX party has already proposed that the government take over the payroll of all workers and self-employed persons for three months. That would certainly have prevented the dramatic unemployment data that we have known and those that will come in the next quarter. As for the liquidity to finance this and other measures, I have read your statements in the Financial Times saying that Europe needs 1.5 billion - not trillions, billions of euros - to finance this type of initiative and probably others. We, in spite of our internal disagreements, will always support the Spanish Government in the external market and as long as the eager moment of his resignation comes, they will be able to count on our support. That's right, you can't fool the Spaniards. We already know what the European institutions are going to demand of Spain in exchange for that money, because we only have to look at what has happened with Greece in the past. And one of two, either the government starts slimming down the welfare state of politicians and we simplify our elephant administration, or Europe will impose its criterion and then all of you - like Zapatero - will end up reducing public salaries, freezing pensions and raising taxes. There is no other: either we save the welfare state of politicians or we save the welfare state of Spaniards. We are clear what we prefer, now you choose, but stop expropriating and, above all, stop deceiving the Spaniards. Simply pay the payroll and leave, which is the best service this Government can do. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u126	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u127	Thank you, President. You spoke of two main objectives: liquidity and employment. And these have been two of the key elements of the package of measures that we have been proposing and adopting: a public-backed liquidity guarantee of up to EUR 100 billion to keep the economy running, and a relaxation of the system of temporary employment regulation dossiers - the ERTE - in order to maintain employment and our productive fabric and to be able to emerge as best and as soon as possible from this exceptional situation. What puzzles me, frankly, is when he tells us that we have to take over the payroll of the private sector and, at the same time, he says he does not want to expropriate. I do not share your view that the public sector has to completely replace the private sector. We have to support it, we have to accompany it, especially those sectors that are most directly affected by this pandemic, but I do not see that the solution is for the public sector to completely replace the functioning of the private sector. I confess that, despite the fact that this is a nostalgic party and that the other day we were listening to the panegyrics and the body to re-create the INI, I am surprised that this is his proposal. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, as I told you before, we have a very clear plan: to support employment, to support businesses, to support the productive fabric, to support our economy and no one to stay behind. That has been our plan from the very beginning and in that we will continue in the coming weeks and months. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u128	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. First, urgent appeal from the Plural Parliamentary Group to the Vice-President Third of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, to outline the measures envisaged by the Government to ensure a social and just exit from the economic crisis following the COVID-19 pandemic. For your defense, Mr. Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, beyond the social, economic and labour emergency measures that the Government was taking, and which the BNG did not endorse because it considered them insufficient and in some cases unfair, we still do not know the Government's proposals to tackle the crisis and boost economic recovery after leaving the health emergency behind. It is true that a parliamentary committee has just been set up in which all groups will be able to participate, with the stated aim of agreeing on a plan for social and economic reconstruction, but it is also the responsibility of those who have the responsibility to govern to assume the duty to foresee a situation as complex as this. I confess that the BNG does not have great confidence in the positive outcome of that commission, but not only because we are convinced that the solution to the social and economic problems of Galicia will not come from Madrid but also from our own capacity as a people to decide and face our future, but because we do not know exactly what they intend to compromise on it with that right that managed the previous crisis by applying the conspicuous neoliberal recipes of cuts and privatizations. If it were to make truly transformative policies, the Government would already have sufficient support to push them forward among the forces that supported the investiture. So, agree what? If the effort is to agree with the People's Party, it will be because it is shared or willing to do what the People's Party can do in social and economic matters, and we already know what it is. That is why we want to know what the Government's proposals are going to be. In all our interventions we have been insisting that the social and economic crisis unleashed by this health emergency cannot pay for it again the same, the workers and the peoples And it is not rhetorical, it is pure and simple prevention against the neoliberal recipes that we have already suffered. Because it is clear that there are two alternatives to obtaining and mobilizing the economic and financial resources needed to get out of this crisis: either to take it away from those who have less through cuts, reduction of wages and social benefits, privatization of public services and socialisation of the losses of large companies - in short, a path we have already experienced - or to put them on top. Clearly, the BNG bets on this latter alternative. For that reason, in the discussions on the measures that the Government was taking, we advanced proposals in that direction, among others, to recover all the money from the bank rescue fund. Only in the recapitalisation of the banks are we talking about more than EUR 60 billion that were not returned, but in total between toxic assets, guarantees and other liquidity measures the fixed aid exceeded EUR 186 billion. It is time for the banks to return what is ours in order to be able to apply it to measures to protect the small and medium-sized economic fabric, the self-employed and the families. Deep tax reform is needed to implement a truly progressive and redistributive fiscal policy to ensure greater tax justice. And immediately, in order to meet the situation of economic exceptionality in which we enter, we must establish a tax on big fortunes and companies, a solution that, by the way, is already under debate in some countries such as Argentina or even Italy. In our view, we must resolutely address - we have just heard your opinion on this - the nationalization of the major corporations of the strategic sectors of the economy, starting with those that were already public and should never have been privatized. And it is clear that we are not talking about temporary nationalizations, euphemism with which the old neoliberal recipe of privatizing profits is wrapped and adorned but socializing losses. We are not prepared to rescue companies from the wages of workers or pensions. And yes, it is necessary and urgent to reduce military spending. It's just a matter of priorities. If the data released yesterday from the Sipri report are not kept short, more than 20 billion in 2019; 20 billion and the approval of new arms programmes since the second half of 2018, i.e. by the government of the Socialist Party, for more than 13 billion euros. Well, we'll have to choose. They will be able to explain to the social majority, to the popular classes hit by this crisis, that first tanks go that wages or decent pensions and food on the table. They will explain that better Eurofighter fighter aircraft than a wage of labour and social inclusion or fair basic income. They will be able to justify the self-employed who lose their businesses that are more important the S-80 submarines. Or they will want to explain, in the end, to all citizens that it is not possible to improve public services, health, care or social services because the priority of the Government is to allocate money to pay for the new Spainsat NG communication satellite programme. The Delàs Center was annoyed by the conversion of weapons to actions of public health interest. I'm going to borrow it because it's illustrative and because, if it's not accurate, it sure doesn't go too far. The Eurofighter programme, with an amount of EUR 12.5 billion, is equivalent to 25 hospitals, hospitals which would have been very useful in this pandemic. That of the Leopard armored, 28 billion euros, would allow the purchase of more than 100,000 respirators. With the amount for 8x8 wheeled combat vehicles, more than 140 million VOCID-19 tests could be purchased, sufficient to carry out the tests massively to the entire population, as the BNG has been claiming. Anyway, I think if you ask the citizen, the priorities are clear. That is why we want to know what this Government is doing. In addition to the major transformative policies that need to be carried out, another basic step in determining a social and just way out of the crisis is the role of the European Union. The analysis by the BNG of the role of the EU since the Spanish state joined the then European Common Market in 1986 is profoundly negative for Galicia because of the devastating effects that the policies imposed had on the main productive sectors of our country: shipbuilding, fisheries or the agricultural sector. But in any case, without going back so far, the action that the EU has been taking since the beginning of this pandemic, we believe that it portrays it perfectly as it really is, a deeply undemocratic and insolidary structure at the service of the oligarchies and fundamentally of the central states. With the insensitivity shown with the countries and peoples hit by the social and economic crisis, the failure of a European project based on neoliberal fundamentalism remains bare. The agreements of 9 April last that you sold as positive for the Spanish state and a first victory in the face of the immobilism of some northern states, in our view, are not so positive. First, because they reoccur in debt mechanisms. Secondly, because, despite that, the 240 billion in MEDE loans are conditional in that they can only be used to finance health policies, with a maximum ceiling of 2% of GDP per country and only for the duration of the health crisis. And, thirdly, because the smallest part of the total will be intended to support employment and wage protection policies. On the contrary, it will be the transnationals and the banking sector that benefit most, because they will manage most of the aid, which will undoubtedly also condition their destination, and will be directly or indirectly the main recipients of the aid. But above all because, by accepting this agreement, the Spanish Government renounces to defend the Coronabons and the mutualization of the debt, bowing to the interests that dominate European policies. The BNG understands that the only reasonable and socially responsible way is to provide direct aid to the States most affected by the pandemic, but we sincerely doubt that this is possible, because the problem is not the position of this or that State but the problem is in the European Union itself. We therefore advocate a break with this insolidary and antisocial model in order to be able to build a truly democratic and people's social Europe. The third leg, for us fundamental, lies in the ability of Galicia to determine its own economic policies. Our country was particularly damaged in the last crisis by a process that accentuated the structural difficulties of our economy, resulting from political dependence, and which led to a sort of chronic crisis that is expressed especially as a deep demographic crisis, emigration, a reduction in the capacity of our primary sector and also a very serious crisis in the industrial sector in recent years and months, which will undoubtedly be further worsened by the economic impact of this health emergency. Unfortunately, we have plenty of historical experience to know that Galicia cannot expect the Madrid governments to solve their problems, because in addition most of it has cause for the colonial and dependent insertion of our country into the Spanish State. A great Galician poet, Celso Emilio Ferreiro, wrote some enlightening verses: 'it will never come from outside remedy or hope'. They are enlightening and certain, because that is our experience. From the outside came, in recent decades, industrial conversion, especially in the naval sector, in the field and in fishing, understanding that where Madrid says conversion - lexicon not innocent - we read destruction and limitation of our productive capacity, challenge of our potentialities and deterioration of our well-being. That is why, frankly, we have no confidence that the Government will solve our problems, and we are fundamentally concerned that it will not aggravate them through anti-social policies. But we do have confidence in our people, and that is why we know that the way is for Galicia to have full capacity to decide on its affairs in a sovereign manner. We need political sovereignty in order to develop the immense economic potential of our country and to advance in rights and well-being. I'm done. In order to ensure social justice and economic development, there must be changes in the political structure of the State and recognition of the rights of nations, so that they can go their own way. We therefore call on the Government to abandon the failed solutions of the past to walk the social and democratic path and to give priority to the interests of the people and peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Linares. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u131	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Your Honor. As I have been explaining every time I have occasion from this rostrum or in any public intervention, the key priority of this Government is to face the current health crisis, so that no one is left behind. I believe that there are different ways of getting out of a crisis, as you have pointed out, and ours is clear, acting in the health, economic and social fields, with ambitious and clear packages of measures, which have, by the way, been validated, for the most part - so far - by this House, in order to have a just social solution to this crisis. This is our goal; this, I believe, must be the one that continues to guide us in the coming weeks and months. Obviously, this has been our priority when we have strengthened the public sector in the health and scientific fields, to try to strengthen our capacity to develop a cure and a vaccine against the virus. Of course, that has been our objective with the measures to support the productive fabric and employment - I shall now refer to them - and, above all, the social measures that have been taken week after week to accompany the process of escalation in containment measures to combat the spread of the virus. We started from the first week with the transfer of 25 million euros to the autonomous communities for food aid as soon as the schools were closed in one of the autonomous communities. We also transferred 300 million euros to the autonomous communities to increase the Social Services Plan, and enabled the municipalities to spend another 300 million euros of their surplus on the same level of care for the most vulnerable, dependent and elderly. Very soon after, we suspended evictions for vulnerable families without housing alternatives in their usual housing. We have approved moratoria of payment in mortgage quotas, we have decreed moratoria in the payment of rents and we have launched a line of endorsements of the Institute of Official Credit of 1200 million euros to help people in vulnerable situations, to deal with the payment of rent of their housing and that this problem does not become a bigger problem for the whole of society. We have banned the cutting of electricity, gas, water and telecommunications services for reasons other than security of supply, while the state of alarm lasts. The review of the price of butane candy, which can only be reviewed if it is low, has been limited to benefit the consumer. We have extended the electric social bonus, and we have done so not only by talking about families but also about the self-employed, a collective that can also suspend the payment of electricity and gas bills. In order to ensure equal educational opportunities, as long as schools are confined and closed, we have launched voluntary reinforcement activities during the summer for the most difficult students. We have distributed 25 000 SIM cards for Internet access to students from vulnerable families; indeed, this is an issue that is not usually mentioned, and I think the most serious and important for our present and our future, to support children so that they can have access to education in this very exceptional situation. We have also protected consumers in the area of the resolution of contracts for the sale of goods or the provision of services. Obligations arising from consumer credit, non-mortgage, have been suspended. These are some of the many family support measures. In addition, we have taken measures to support and protect the productive fabric and workers, because the approach has to be, first of all, to protect incomes. We're going to protect what we have, try to preserve a solid basis for economic recovery and that people don't get to find themselves in that vulnerable situation. The ICO's collateral lines are targeted primarily at SMEs and autonomous, which make up the bulk of our productive fabric. In fact, up to yesterday more than 231,000 financing operations had been registered; 98.5% corresponded to SMEs and self-employed, for a total amount of more than EUR 22 billion, to try to protect - as you said - activity and employment. In 20 days of application, only the ICO's line of endorsements has allowed more funding to be granted to the productive tissue than that recorded by the entire financial sector throughout February, which highlights the important role that these public endorsements and our agile response are having in maintaining the productive tissue. Moratoriums in the payment of taxes have been agreed and an extraordinary termination benefit has been created. In the area of employment, a mechanism of temporary employment regulation files has been widely supported with public resources to ensure that workers do not become unemployed, to preserve our productive capacity and the well-being and incomes of families once again. We are working with the social partners; this afternoon I will have a meeting to see how the transition is made from this force majeure ERT system to the new reality that we will have in the process of descalation. Workers have been empowered to be protected in a situation of temporary incapacity assimilated to temporary incapacity when dealing with a quarantine situation. And apart from such protective measures for the collective of workers as a whole, there are other measures for specific groups, such as domestic workers, temporary workers who have not reached the minimum necessary to be entitled to a benefit and even those who have voluntarily left their employment and who have been dismissed or have not been awarded a contract because they are on probation. Extraordinary subsidies, extraordinary support for the whole of Spanish society with measures even specific to the agricultural sector; very powerful measures benefiting 6 million citizens who have launched themselves at the initiative of the Government, which have been validated by this Congress and which I believe we all have to put into value because they represent an exit from the social crisis, support for the most vulnerable, a very different exit from the one to which you have been referring. And, moreover, at European level, we are strongly supporting a European response, debt-sharing, joint debt-issuing systems, so that we can also strengthen that recovery plan, which I hope we can start talking about in this Congress as soon as possible. In this regard, I am surprised by your description or your perception that ambitious responses have been abandoned, because the truth is that Spain is one of the countries that is struggling most to have an ambitious European response in a new field, advocating for maximum use of the instruments we have and the creation of the new instruments that we need throughout the European Union in order to be able to regain economic activity as soon as possible. In short, Your Honor, from the first moment, from the moment I took office in June 2018, I have been defending a very clear principle, and it is that there is no economic or financial sustainability if it is not accompanied by social and environmental sustainability. Both are two sides of the same coin and we have to make parallel progress in these areas. In other words, we must ensure a way out of the social crisis, a sustainable way out, a way out that does not lose sight of the priorities to face the medium- and long-term challenges of our country, that agenda for change, that sustainable and balanced growth agenda that we have been putting in place since the first day and that we have been defending; we must not lose sight of the fact that we are now being forced to respond to the daily needs and priorities of the fight against the crisis. I believe that there is no great discrepancy between what you are defending and what the Government has been putting on the table, and that is why I do not see why you could not strongly support the various packages of measures that we have been proposing, which have a marked social character, each and every one of them aimed at protecting the most vulnerable, the workers, and at protecting the productive fabric as a basis for such economic recovery that will allow us to resume as soon as possible the path of growth and well-being for the whole of our population. If I see an element in which you and I do not agree on the approach you have taken from this stand and the approach we make from the Government, it is that of thinking that Galicia or any other autonomous community can emerge from the crisis acting on its own. I believe that if something has made this crisis clear to us, it is precisely the need to strengthen what unites us, to strengthen the public, to strengthen the public health system, to strengthen our educational system, to strengthen everything that unites us. If something has made clear this crisis is that when we face global challenges we have to act together, because, if not, each one on his own will not be able to come out in the best possible way. So in this area I do believe that there is a discrepancy and I am also very convinced of what I am saying. I think we have to get out of this situation as hard as possible, and for that we have to get out together. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u132	Thank you very much, Vice-President Third of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Gloria. I now give the floor to Mr Rego Candaimil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, one thing is rhetoric and the other the facts, and the social and just way out of the crisis is determined by the facts. He has reported a series of measures that we already knew and that we have considered insufficient in his day when they are not unfair, because unfair seems to us to have opted for ERTE instead of choosing to really ban layoffs. By the way, known to the Government's progressive decontainment plan, concern in society and in the weaker economic sectors is increasing. In that scenario, much small trade and restoration is likely to be unable or unable to reopen. What will happen to the self-employed affected and what will happen to the workers on behalf of others? What is going to happen to the ERTE once the cause of force majeure cannot be officially applied but in reality economic activity does not recover? Today, the main concern of people affected by the cessation of activity and by ERTE is that most people have not yet paid and do not know when they will do so, but the concern for the immediate future is growing, so we believe that the Government must now move forward with measures that give calm and certainty to the people affected and to the whole of society, and for this they are precise resources that, I insist, must come out of the superfluous, such as military spending or the Royal House, of those who pay the most who have the most and not to deteriorate the purchasing level and well-being of the popular classes. We consider, for example, measures for self-employed persons and families to be insufficient in their day, and I do not, on a case-by-case basis, include measures such as the cancellation of mortgage fees or rents in the case of large estate holders. You speak of a social and just exit from the crisis and that no one is left behind. Sounds great. Are you in a position to say that the European funds that may come are not conditioned or do not deepen the indebtedness of the Spanish State? The problem, Madam Vice-President, is that sometimes, listening to speeches, it gives the feeling that one thing is the economy and the other people. The problem is that when we forget that economic policy must solve the lives of the people, of the social majority, that is, of the workers and of the popular classes, it ends up favoring a few at the expense of the vast majority, and we do not want that to happen again. It's time to save people, people's interests, not results accounts. Therefore, he warned about false nationalizations, of public intervention, which consists in injecting money without that implying any public control. For example, yesterday we were aware of the Government's concern about Iberia, which is preparing aid to prevent the economic asphyxiation of this airline. Under what conditions? In exchange for what are these aids going to be? Will the State control the airline or will it simply devote essential public resources to drive social protection and the productive economy to solve problems of a private company? We already know this experience. I will remind you of a well-known example in Galicia. At the cost of reducing the wages of public workers, of sacrificing pensions and pensioners, of cutting social benefits, of deteriorating public services, there was a bank bailout. In the case of Novagalicia Banco, from the merger and banking of Caixa Galicia and Caixanova, €9 billion was injected. Once the entity was healed, it was sold to a Venezuelan businessman - and this time Venezuela did not worry the People's Party, quite the contrary - for 1 billion euros. The first year Abanca declared profits of more than EUR 1 billion. That is to say, the Venezuelan entrepreneur took less than a year to recover the investment and we left on the road 8 billion euros of public resources that undoubtedly had other priority social destinations. I set the example of Abanca precisely because if something needs Galicia to support the productive economy, for the development of the economic potential of our country, it is a public bank, and that has been a missed opportunity; it also needs to put under public control a strategic sector in which it is powerful, such as the production of electricity, and it also needs to modify the system of autonomous financing, which is seriously detrimental to Galicia's interests, to implement a model of concert that gives our country the capacity to collect taxes and also to decide what to allocate them precisely because we know that the priority must be social policies, the productive economy and the strengthening of public services. That is why I insist - and I know that we do not agree - that in order to get out of this crisis, political changes are also needed that go by recognizing the rights of nations and their exercise. Galicia needs to be able to decide and power to decide according to its interests and for the welfare of Galician popular classes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u134	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u135	Thank you very much, President. Allow me, Sir, four main ideas in response to your question, which, by the way, the President of the Government himself has been putting on the table and which he highlighted yesterday during the press conference to explain the plan for the transition to a new normality. Firstly, one of the main lessons that we must draw from this whole crisis that we are going through, as I said a moment ago, is the need to strengthen our welfare state and, in particular, the National Health System. We need to get much stronger public services, better prepared to deal with stressful situations like this. This is a priority that we have been defending since we arrived at the Government: our commitment to public services, their adequate funding, human and material endowment. Their protection is an obsession of our Government because these public services guarantee the equitable sharing of wealth, the protection of the most vulnerable citizens, equal opportunities for all Spaniards. We believe in this and we defend this. Secondly, in relation to the weeks ahead - which are going to be very hard weeks - with the descalation plan and how we are going to ensure the transition to a new normality, we have to ensure that it occurs in a way that no one is left behind. That is the approach we have taken by the Government. Please note that even when we have now talked about retail trade - you have referred to this sector - we are paying particular attention to the need to protect small trade by giving it opportunities to open up as soon as possible and helping it to meet the new security requirements. We are working with the social partners, as I pointed out a moment ago, to have as soon as possible legal certainty and a system of transition from the main causes to the new reality, to which I hope we are moving as soon as possible throughout the national territory. I think it is important to work with the social partners and not that the government unilaterally impose a view on this. This dialogue is progressing well and I hope that we can have an agreement on which to base government action as soon as possible. In addition, we work on a minimum living income, on a minimum living income, in collaboration also with social actors and the autonomous communities to offer a new protection mattress to vulnerable families and continue to fight poverty more effectively from now on, which has been one of our tops during these two years. Thirdly, you have referred to another set of reforms that have also been very high on our Government's priority agenda. We are talking, for example, about tax reform, to make a more progressive, fairer and, more modern tax system. That is why we have put on the table new figures such as the tax on financial transactions, the tax on certain digital services, which abound precisely in this line of having a fairer tax system with which we can adequately finance the necessary strengthening of the welfare state. I hope that the processing of these two new tax figures will be as quickly as possible here in Congress, now that the period of amendments is over and that we will have these two taxes in place as soon as possible. Fourthly, in these weeks which, as I said, are going to be very complicated, I think it is very important not to take steps backwards in what we have achieved in terms of health and not to lose sight of the priorities that have guided us in this threefold economic and social health struggle, nor to lose sight of the more medium- and long-term objectives that have guided us since the first day and that I believe must return to priority on our economic agenda from now on. In short, as the President of the Government said yesterday, this crisis must not serve as an excuse to abandon the ecological transition agenda, to cut the welfare state, to lose the goal of having a more just and progressive tax system, to fight the gender gap; it must not serve as an excuse to precarious labour relations. I believe that our agenda is very clear and it is clear that we have to get out of this crisis as soon as possible, as best possible and all together, as I said a moment ago. I hope that we can soon begin to discuss and discuss with each other and agree at parliamentary level how we will face these challenges that have not disappeared: the challenge of demographic change, the challenge of climate change, the need for digitisation, and build a more sustainable and just society. I share with you that it is not worth anything to counter people and economy, and this is not our approach at all, just as it is fallacious to counter health and economy. Just as we need to put the health crisis behind us in order to have a solid and strong economic recovery, so must economic policy measures take care of the productive fabric, workers and family incomes. It is that it is several sides of the same coin, as I said a moment ago, as I repeat systematically. That is our approach, not to counter people and economy, but to support the economy, families, workers, and people. That is where we stand and I hope to count on your support from now on. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u136	Thank you very much, Madam Third Vice-President of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Linares. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO EXPLAIN THE MEASURES THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS ADOPTED AND WILL TAKE TO PROTECT THE PEOPLE OF BETTER EDAD IN SPAIN. [[File number 172/000023]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u137	Urgent appeal by the VOX Parliamentary Group to the Government to explain what measures it has taken and will take to protect the elderly population in Spain. For your defence, Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, how sad it is to first rise to this rostrum in these circumstances. I am going to address you almost in a tone of supplication, with despair, because there are still more than 25,000 elderly people in our residences infected with coronavirus, who deserve to be given the opportunity to fight for their lives, because, to this day, there are more than 15,000 elderly people who have died in their residences, in those places where they were supposed to be cared for and protected until the end of their days. This chilling figure means that almost 70% of all deaths known to coronavirus have occurred in residences, and that has only one reading, one reading: that you have allowed, with your negligence and immoral decisions, the residences of elders to become authentic houses of horrors. You, gentlemen of the government, were the ones who made the decision at the beginning of the pandemic to lock up our elders there; you were the ones who decided that no one could enter and no one could leave, except the employees of the centers, and yet without understanding, we all complied. You were the ones who didn't know how to react when you skipped all the alarms and we started experiencing mass deaths in our homes, because you didn't give the importance that deserved a virus that only killed older people and with serious pathologies. At the same time they should have put in place all the machinery of the State to try to avoid another death in those centers, but incomprehensiblely they did not, they left the residences to their fate, knowing that they had neither the means nor the resources to deal with this limit and terrible situation, with the overwhelming result that we know today for our shame. They left thousands of our elders locked up and sentenced to death. They prohibited the direct sale of PPE and of health protection material to the residences, as the providers themselves had revealed to the persons responsible for these centres, while many of the elderly were prevented from being transferred to hospitals, where there was simply no place for them, where they were denied assistance because they did not meet the criteria. They then limited themselves to publishing an instruction from the Ministry of Health prohibiting discrimination against patients on grounds of age when deciding to join the ICU. And it is that the Generality's recommendation not to enter intensive care for patients aged eighty years old was still burning in our consciousness, but we do not know about the follow-up of this instruction or its fulfillment. Forgotten, alone and suffering; so are our elders dying in the residences, lords of the Government, those who were born in the midst of the Civil War, those who experienced the hardships of the post-war period, those who sacrificed themselves to the extreme to give us the best education and the best future, the same ones who when they came ill given also had to use their pyrecious retirement pension to help their children and grandchildren, and, in return, what have we given them? We have returned them to the Middle Ages, to the time when the stinkers were locked up and separated in their own homes or in much worse places without proper assistance. You've let them become simple statistics. They have erased their faces and hidden their coffins in order to cleanse their conscience and be able to sleep at night. They have been overcrowded on ice tracks, waiting for their families to find them and be able to take care of their bodies, without showing a single image of the suffering of these families. Eyes that don't see, heart that doesn't feel! Mr Iglesias, you have come a long way to get to where you are, you have had no scruple in doing whatever it takes to get to be vice president of this government. He supported a motion of censure at least questionable; he starred in the pantomime of an irreconcilable confrontation that ended in hugs and tears of emotion; you even had to betray yourself and all those who once believed in you to achieve your goal, changing ideals as quickly as you changed your T-shirts for a jacket. You are now the Vice-President of this Government, Minister of Social Rights and responsible for these services in cooperation with the Autonomous Communities and the municipalities. Since 19 March they have delegated to you the competence to coordinate social services with the Ministry of Health. The residences of elders, Mr. Iglesias, were and are in their hands. And now that you have what you wanted, why did you want it, Mr. Churches? Where are your incendiary speeches on protecting the vulnerable and the dispossessed? You now had the golden opportunity to prove that something you said was true, that one of your intentions was sincere. We would like you to explain to us what measures the Government has taken and is going to take to protect older people in Spain, because the only measure we have heard you propose in public appearance has been the provision of more beds by locating devices linked to social services that could serve to strengthen the National Health System during the crisis; 19,500 beds in particular, according to you, located in more than a thousand buildings thanks to the collaboration of several NGOs. Now I have a question to ask you, Mr. Iglesias: has any of these beds been used to accommodate people in our homes or people over eighty years of age? I tell you this because, while thousands of our elders died without assistance in the residences, 2200 UCI beds - 2200 UCI beds, Mr. Iglesias - have remained blocked and free in private health; free, ready and available for use, and empty, Mr. Iglesias. Is there any reason, any explanation, any minimally understandable justification for those of us who no longer understand anything about why there are ICU places in those communities where the pandemic has not punished so harshly, no patients have been transferred from these residences to, for example, Valencia, Andalusia, Murcia, Extremadura or where it would have been necessary? Please explain why residences have been verbally instructed not to request a transfer to the hospital for those over 80 years of age; why your own data, government data, indicate that people over 80 years of age have not been taken to the ICU. Can you explain to us, Mr. Churches, who has decided that the difference between being 79 or 80 years old can mean living or dying? Associations of residential management companies have reported this as an asset and as a liability. Why have public hospitals refused to accommodate residents? And if it couldn't be public health that took them in, why didn't they give them a chance in private health? Do they hate private people so much that they prefer people to die rather than claudiate in the face of evidence that private health is also a necessary and complementary service? Can your fanaticism come this far, Mr. Churches? If the alarm decree empowers you to use private resources, why didn't you use them?Why haven't you squeezed them to the limit? Too many questions, which I fear will not be answered, because there is no excuse; there cannot be an excuse in the world that justifies this way of acting. Gentlemen of the Government, you sent our army to the residences, an army that has given an example of humility and service, as they alone know how to give. They're the ones who've had to do with their own eyes the worst they could see, corpses of derelict elders in their rooms. After the terrible finding, you again had the opportunity to react, but you did not. The reports and the work of the Prosecutor's Office use it to shake the responsibility again, to blame the residences, which are a service to care for the elderly, not to cure them, and that all they did was comply with their instructions: not to let go, not to let go and do what they could with the means they had and that they were poor, Mr. Iglesias. Because, except for extraordinary exceptions from residences that did not believe what you told them and that were prepared in time, no one knew what was coming on them, but neither the residences nor the autonomous communities. Mr. Iglesias, you do not dare to blame the Autonomous Communities either because, since the Spanish Government has the sole command that gives you the state of alarm, they have power over the Autonomous Communities and because, in any case, the elderly depend on the Ministry of Social Rights. Do not dare to seek scapegoats because, when you have wanted, you have centralized, confiscated, seized and intervened. Do you know what autonomies are to blame for? To put the interests of yours before those of the rest of the Spaniards, autonomy is the fault of that. That's what our model of state has brought to us, to the particular interest, to a crippling bureaucracy, to the constant struggle to see who pays the bill, to pure and cruel selfishness: mine alone for me. Zero charity with the one next door and a lot of empty solidarity with which he arrives from anywhere in the world. Saint Augustine said that the root is deeply rooted in the earth and that where our root is there is our life, there is our love. We cannot forget what we have next door, let alone our elders, live in the autonomous community that lives. I would ask you, therefore, to take into account the proposal put forward by this group, in which we ask you to make available to all citizens the material and human resources necessary for everyone to receive medical care, without anyone being discriminated against for their age or vital circumstances, so that the last bed of ICU is exhausted in any corner of the national territory or even in neighbouring countries such as France or Portugal. Because as long as there is a free bed that we can offer to our elders, we cannot apply criteria of selection, triage or proportionality; we cannot dehumanize or relativize the value of human life because then we would cease to be human. Gentlemen of the Government, you say you are a progressive coalition, and I wonder if what you mean by progress is that we fail as a society by dismissing the weakest and the most vulnerable. Please, we beg you, to remove our elderly patients from the residences, to take them to hospitals, to continue to enable ICUs while there is only one person at risk of dying from this virus, to be eighty, ninety or one hundred years old. Do it out of charity and responsibility, as the last service, ask forgiveness and leave. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz Solás. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your reading, honourable Member. Out of respect for parliamentary rules, I would ask you to listen to me and to debate here, not to read the texts, although I thank you for the quote from St. Augustine of Hippon and I thank you for a tone that moves away from the most usual tone of your political formation. We will continue to support the Autonomous Communities in the management of the residences of public and private majors, because, as you know, the Government gave the Autonomous Communities an indication that they had to manage both. Under the command of the Ministry of Health, we declare the social services - and, in particular, the social services that affect the residences of elderly people - as essential services for them to have - honourable Member, I see that it is difficult for you to listen to me - the same consideration as the health services. At the same time, we established the flexibility of recruitment in senior residences so that they could hire the necessary staff, as well as in health care, and we allocated EUR 300 million which, precisely, would have to be used to enable the autonomous communities to hire the necessary staff. Under the authority of the Ministry of Health, we have instructed the Autonomous Communities to give priority to both residents and persons who are in the residences for distribution to be made by the Autonomous Communities both of the individual protection teams and of the tests. We also drafted the order, under the authority of the Ministry of Health, for the professionals of the Military Emergency Unit to disinfect the homes of elderly people who so requested and, to this day, more than 4000 have been disinfected. I think you will agree with me, even if we have very different ideas, that what is happening these weeks has exposed the reality of the model of elderly residences in our country. Let me read you a news from the newspaper infoLibre: Million dollar investment funds and some corrupt businessman control the thirteen largest groups of residences in Spain. Of the top five companies, all with more than forty-five geriatrics, two have as their main shareholder Jersey funds, one to an English fund and one to a Canada pension fund. In the business there are also five of the richest men in Spain - Florentino Pérez, the Albertos, Modesto Álvarez Otero and Carlos Álvarez Navarro - and the fifth fortune of France, the Mulliez family. Two groups are controlled by entrepreneurs involved in the Gürtel case, the already convicted Enrique Ortiz and the double-trialed José Luis Ulibari. It makes me ashamed as a Spaniard to have to publish a news like this, but it draws much attention to the fact that you, while quoting Augustine of Hippon, have not said a single word - not a single word - about what has implied that much of the elderly residences in our country, managed by the autonomous communities, are in the hands of corrupt and vulture funds. And you know why they didn't say anything? Because you are not a Spanish party, you are an anti-Spanish, anti-patriot party, representing the interests of those corrupt and vulture funds. [[Applauds]] What is defending Spain, Your Honor? What is the general interest when a health crisis exposes an unprecedented social and economic crisis? We believe that defending Spain is the opposite of what was done in 2008, when unemployment and dismissals were the daily bread of Spanish and Spanish workers. And this government has done what it has done is to protect four million workers with ERTE, avoiding redundancies and company closures. This Government has protected workers by prohibiting dismissals because of COVID-19. And you have opposed these measures because you are against the Spanish workers, which is being against Spain. Defending Spain, in a context of criticism and in a context of economic and social crisis, is to put an end to the shame that the evictions to Spanish families who were in a situation of vulnerability to financial institutions after the crisis of 2008 were. This government has banned evictions and you voted against them, because you are against Spanish families and against Spain. To defend Spain, to defend the homeland, to defend the general interest, is to defend the Spanish families when there are cuts in supplies. This government has banned supply cuts and you have voted against them, because you are against Spanish families and against the homeland. Defending Spain is to provide mortgage moratoria to people who for the economic and social reasons of the crisis cannot face their mortgages, and this Government has facilitated moratoria for housing and also for the self-employed. This Government has provided rental aid and has set up contract extensions. And for the first time, a Government of Spain has established an extraordinary benefit for the autonomous and autonomous of this country and you have voted against it, because you are against the families, against the autonomous and against Spain. Your Honor, in this country there are some cross-cutting consensuses; consensuses that link people regardless of the political formation to which they vote. The first is to defend public health, because when you need to be cared for, in health care you are cared for without asking which party you voted for. And that is why in Spain, regardless of what people have voted for, it is a consensus that must end the cuts and the precarious situation that the healthcare professionals in this country are suffering, and you are against this. In this country it is a consensus that relocation has caused the vulnerability of the industry of our country, remaining at the mercy of the international markets because we could not manufacture the PPE and respirators that our country needed, and you continue to defend an economic model that puts our country at risk because they are against Spain. Your Honor, when this government says that our country's position vis-à-vis Europe has to be a country's position that Europe will be united or not, when you are against it, you are against the general interest and you are against Spain. Allow me, in conclusion, a historical reflection. Today, Europe remains the result of a major reconstruction agreement that took place after the Second World War. That reconstruction agreement inspired what was known as post-war constitutionalism, social constitutionalism, which unfortunately took a little longer in Spain to arrive, but came in 1978 with a Constitution that was largely inspired by the Italian Constitution of 1948 and the Bonn Basic Law. You in this House talk a lot about communism, and for me it is an honor to represent a political group within which there is a party with almost a hundred years of history, the Communist Party of Spain, which was a condition of possibility of defeating the dictatorship, of building democracy in our country and of the Constitution of 78, despite people like you, who were never in favour of the Constitution, who were never in favour of democracy, and that every time you hide behind the figure of the monarch, you place the monarchy in a position of weakness, because if the monarchy succeeded in this country it was precisely by getting away from people like you. Your Honor, there would be no democracy in France or democracy in Italy without the action of the communists of these countries, who are recognized as heroes of the homeland; they fought fascism, which is something that unfortunately sometimes resonates in their speeches. But you do not come to something so extraordinary; you are a formation of great surnames and little shame, that you falsify titles to exercise without being able to do so, that you have no more homeland than your money; you, Your Honor, are not even fascists, you are simply parasites. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u141	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Valentina. Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u142	Thank you very much. How sad to hear you, Mr. Iglesias; first you are mistaken as a Member - I was looking after you from the very first moment - and then you are mistaken for intervention. I haven't heard you say anything about the elderly; I've come to ask you, to ask you to do something for them, who are dying in the residences, and you jump here with an anti-VOX rally that didn't come into play. You'll see. We're not leaving anyone behind. This has been his recurring motto throughout this pandemic and throughout this health crisis. We are not going to leave anyone behind, and they repeat it constantly, as if it were true, when the truth is that they have already left behind a lot of people, they have already left behind, and precisely those who deserved it the least and those who needed it the most. And they've left them behind because they don't really value their lives, they don't value their lives. You didn't give importance to this virus because you thought it was a virus that killed older people; that's the reality of what we're talking about here, that's how hard this situation is. Don't talk to me about vultures, tell me about what I've come to talk to you about older people dying, who are your responsibility. The truth is that your idea of progress comes to an end with the family, which has traditionally been the place of mutual relief in which the elderly occupied the place of greatest respect - that is the truth - so that, once eliminated, it is you who take care of the weak, as you are taking care of, who later end up discarding because you consume resources that you need for other things. That is the true ideological pandemic that has begun to spread to us with its selfishness and its lack of values which, unfortunately, is much more cruel and much more painful than this one we are living. You who speak so much of historical memory, who fills their mouths with historical memory and feminism and who justify euthanasia by appealing to a worthy death, have deprived those most deserving of that dignity and are giving a miserable farewell to those who lived during the Civil War and after the Civil War. For you it seems that women who have been dismissed, killed and abandoned in residences do not deserve the same respect as other victims because they are older and because they are sick, and that is why none of you, none of you, cries out for them today. We cannot be accomplices with our silence of what you are doing; neither can we nor will we stop saying that they were their responsibility and that they have abandoned them. I ask you, please, never again to come to this House to speak of worthy death; you have neither political authority nor moral authority to do so ever again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Valentina. To conclude the debate, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u144	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, it is miserable to use death to make politics, miserable. It is miserable to talk about families when you have not supported one of the measures to defend the families of this country. Your Honor, it is miserable to criticize euthanasia in the context in which we are. You have very few scruples and try to disguise your discourse of religious values. Look, I'm not a believer, but I really like Pope Francis, and I think he's been saying things lately that go in the opposite direction of what you say. You represent hatred, hypocrisy and moral misery, and I assure you that Spain and our people, once again, as in the 20th century, will take away the filth that you represent. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u145	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u146	We continue with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, there is the debate on the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 12/2020 of 31 March of urgent measures for the protection and assistance of victims of gender-based violence. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Equality has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I am speaking for the first time since the state of alarm was declared in this plenary to request the validation of Royal Decree-Law 12/2020 of 31 March of urgent measures in the area of protection and assistance to victims of gender-based violence. I would like to begin by sending our condolences on my own behalf, on behalf of the Ministry of Equality and on behalf of the Government of Spain, to all those people who have lost a loved one during this crisis, without being able to say goodbye as they deserve. I also want to send our affection to those people who are worried about the people they want, to those who have passed the disease or are passing it right now, and to all those people who are experiencing very difficult times as a result of this crisis. And especially I want to send my love and support to the families and friends of the eighteen women killed by macho violence during this year 2020, 1051 since 2003 and two during the state of alarm. If for something makes sense our work is not to forget any of these women and to honor their memory, working to eradicate the machismo of our society and that there is no more murder. We want to live, and that is the powerful reason that justifies the presentation of this royal decree. [[The lady]] Since it was necessary to declare the state of alarm in Spain, in the Government we have been very aware of the need to protect women and their children in an extraordinary way from the violence of macho violence, so we decided immediately to put in place a contingency plan against gender-based violence in the face of the crisis arising from the COVID-19, in order to be able to reinforce the actions that are already taking place in a normal way and to develop new ones adapted to the added difficulty of confinement for women and their creatures. The royal decree-law that I ask you to validate today is the normative response necessary for the development of this plan. As you well know, at least most of your ladies and gentlemen in this House, gender-based violence is a very serious violation of human rights in any political and social context as a structural part of historical discrimination against women. The World Health Organization also recognizes that violence against women is the biggest global public health problem, with its prevalence increasing in times of emergency such as the one we are living in. Measures taken to curb the pandemic can exacerbate, increase, the risks of gender-based violence or the impossibility of breaking up with the aggressor, exposing women to a scenario of unprotectiveness before which States, Governments, have a responsibility to give an immediate response. In particular, the United Nations Human Rights Council has stated that States must take additional social protection measures to ensure that their support reaches those persons at greatest risk of being disproportionately affected by the crisis of COVID-19. Acting in the face of sexist violence is therefore not a political option; it is an obligation, a necessity. Marceline Naudi, President of the Grevio, of the Expert Group on Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence of the Council of Europe, has made it clear that restrictions on movement give aggressors greater power and control over the lives of women and girls and children with whom they live. I think it is necessary to make clear exactly what we are talking about. Confinement situations cause women in situations of ill-treatment to spend 24 hours of the day with their abuser, without the possibility of leaving home with an excuse, without the possibility of spending their working hours without the aggressor, without the possibility of avoiding many hours of contact with their sons and daughters and of living together, which logically multiply the possibility of a conflict or a situation of violence, without the possibility of daily contact with those circles of support that we all have - family, friends, comrades and fellow workers -, without the possibility of unburdening with any person of trust, of calling a relative or a friend, with many difficulties in fact to be able to make a call to the usual resources that victims can use, such as 016 and, moreover, with fear, stress or anxiety triggered by the situation of confinement itself. I want to send a clear message to all these women: You are not alone. If you feel that you are in danger, if you feel that your life, your physical integrity, your psychological integrity, your or your children's, do not hesitate, there is no valid confinement. Go out on the street and seek help from the authorities. Your neighbours, the State Security Forces and Bodies and your Government are here to take care of you and to help you. I want to remember what you can do, what those women who can find themselves in a situation of risk or vulnerability can do if they need help. You can call 016; always, 24 hours a day, there's someone on the other side of the phone. If you are in an emergency situation, you can also call 112 and, if you can't talk, you can also send an alert with the AlertCops mobile app with a geolocation button that we have developed together with the Ministry of the Interior, which I take advantage of to thank for the collaboration and the joint work. If you need emotional support and restraint in such difficult situations, you can write by WhatsApp to two phones, the 682 916 136 or the 682 508 507. You can also write an email to 016-online@mscbs.es. I urge all these women, who are the most important of this royal decree: You are not alone. In addition, I want to recognize the value that 016 has as a public service since its creation, but especially in this situation of confinement, and the professionals who day by day leave their skin so that every woman they call feels accompanied and feels safe. Thank you on behalf of the Government of Spain, I dare say that thank you on behalf of society as a whole for the work you are doing. As you well know, calls to 016 have increased by 47.3% in the first half of April compared to the same period of 2019; there have been 4042 relevant calls, ladies and gentlemen. Similarly, online consultations have increased by 650 per cent. Following the data, the extreme right has intended to interpret the decrease in complaints to the State Security Forces and Bodies in some autonomous communities as evidence of the decrease in situations of male violence during confinement. It is my responsibility to deny to those who seek to minimize and question the macho violence and the situation of special vulnerability that many women are experiencing in these weeks. I tell you quite clearly, ladies and gentlemen, confinement makes it more difficult for women to report. It also logically reduces the chances that the abuser will physically approach them or their children if they no longer live together and also makes it more difficult for women to announce a situation that puts them at risk, such as leaving, separating or getting divorced. Women, especially those who have daughters and children, endure until they can no longer. This reality, together with the clear increase in calls and contacts by WhatsApp and by mail, tells us that risk situations continue to occur, are produced more and are produced more intensively. That is precisely why it makes sense, and it is our obligation, to strengthen the services and forms of assistance to women victims of sexist violence in order to reach them despite all the difficulties - including the difficulties of reporting - that this situation imposes on them. The reality tells us that these measures are useful and necessary, and yet we remain vigilant. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that there may be women who suffer male violence who do not know where to go, who are afraid or who do not trust the institutions. I want you to know that we will do everything in our hand to be at your side. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we will never again have to listen in this House or outside it to someone denying the existence of macho violence, denying the existence of the greatest vulnerability that occurs in situations like the one we are experiencing and denying this pain. Its negationism, ladies and gentlemen, does not fit into a democracy like ours, which is united and resolute in its struggle against machoism and against macho violence. I want to make it clear that these measures have been the first, but under no circumstances are the only measures that this Government is pushing to take care of women during this health crisis and during its consequent economic and social crisis. We know very well that in crisis situations - and the example that began in 2008 - women's living conditions are devalued faster and deeper. Women emerged from the 2008 crisis with a lower employment rate, higher unemployment, more precarious jobs, lower wages and a higher incidence of temporary or partiality. We also assume most of the burden of care work at home and also in the care of children and dependents. We also emerge from this crisis with a higher risk of poverty and a higher risk of social exclusion only because of being women. The situation is particularly difficult in almost 2 million single-parent households, 1.5 million headed by women. The risk rate for these'monomarental' households exceeds 40%. Or for household workers, one in three of them lives in poverty, according to Oxfam. On 13 March 2013, the European Parliament made it clear that the austerity plans with which it decided to emerge from the past crisis, cuts, privatisations, mainly affect the public sector and its assistance services, whose employees and main beneficiaries - both employees and main beneficiaries - are mostly women. Women cannot once again be the ones on our shoulders, on our bodies, the weight of the health crisis, the economic crisis and the social crisis. This crisis cannot make the soil even more sticky for women. This crisis, moreover, is revealing the enormous fragility of the care system in our country, its invisibility and which is overwhelmingly supported by women. This crisis has allowed us to understand what the feminist strike clearly expressed: that, if women stop, it is for the world, that care is not an accessory, it is a pillar of our society, or, what is the same, that, without care, society simply does not work. And in this crisis, essential jobs and jobs have so far been shown to be invisible, socially undervalued and recognized, precarious and underpaid, such as domestic workers, cleaning staff or home help service. This crisis has also revealed the enormous feminization of work associated with care: nursing, cleaning, caring for boys and girls, and elderly and dependent people. The World Health Organization and the United Nations have already alerted all countries to the situation of women during the pandemic - women in isolation, women in care and women in health care. According to the World Health Organization, women account for 70 per cent of the staff in the health sector. In residential establishments, 84 per cent of the staff employed are women. Women are, we are, at the forefront of the fight against COVID-19, and it is our responsibility to take care of those who take care of us and to take care of the work, physical and emotional consequences that this implies. Finally, the crisis has highlighted the need to combat loneliness, something in which there is also a gender burden of enormous dimensions. One in four Spanish families is one-person and 30% of them are single women over 65 years of age. Surely in these days the calls of their families, the video calls or the solidarity of their neighbors and neighbors are helping them to pass the confinement feeling somewhat more accompanied, but, let's not be fooled, loneliness does harm and our society must commit itself to returning these men and, above all, these women all the effort and care they have given us throughout their life. I would therefore like to acknowledge the value of public services, in particular public health and home care and support services for older and dependent people, as guarantors of the rights of all people and as a basis for life itself. Our lives individually are possible only and exclusively because we live in community. This pandemic is proving that it is a lie, ladies and gentlemen, that society is simply a sum of free individuals, that never a single person, not many, but separately, will be able to curb this health emergency, let alone face the social and economic consequences of it. If we are going to be able to get out of this crisis and, above all, if we are going to be able to get out of this crisis, it is because we are a community and we have created public services that we must strengthen and that, because they are of all people, guarantee us priority for the common good before any other particular interest. There are those who also defend in this House that society is a wild competition to see who comes first, that society and the economy balance themselves if everyone goes for free defending their interests. But the consequence of this model is the wild speculation that is taking place in the international market with products of primary need to save lives, such as respirators or personal protective equipment. And this crisis, ladies and gentlemen, has made it clear that this model of society is simply a lie, it is harmful and, moreover, it is a disaster, economically speaking. To live in society is to care for the common good, to cooperate and to put life at the centre of all our efforts. This Government is conscious and does not forget that crises - this too - do mean social class and do mean gender. In the previous crisis, between 2010 and 2016, cuts in policies to combat gender-based violence dropped investment by 26%. This time it won't be like this. This Government is aware that if we do nothing to prevent it, if we choose between maintaining employment and caring for children, dependent persons and the elderly, there will be many more women in care, family organization and domestic work. The 2010 Time Employment Survey reflected, in fact, clearly that women spent an average of two and a quarter hours a day more than men on household chores. In times of confinement and class suspension, domestic and care work is multiplying and we can talk about that the double day would be going on a triple working day for women. This Government is aware, we know that if we do nothing to prevent it, there will be many more women taking on more precarious part-time jobs or worse paid jobs. We know that if we do nothing to prevent it, there will be an increased risk of a situation of macho violence. That is why we have acted and we know that we must not lower our guard to strengthen and extend protection to women who are victims of sexist violence and that is why we have created - and I want to acknowledge the enormous work of this Government and, in particular, of Minister Yolanda Díaz - the Mecuida programme, which has allowed women workers to reduce and organize their working hours so that they can be compatible with care tasks. Learning from this crisis and caring for those who take care of us means that we must make public policies so that gender inequalities are not aggravated in order to bring a cross-sectoral and gender approach to the public policies we make and to ensure, as I said to them, that it is not the bodies and hands of women who bear the greatest burden of this crisis. As you know, since the state of alarm was declared, we have developed a series of measures in this context, all of which have been included in the Plan of Contingency against Gender Violence in the face of the crisis arising from the COVID-19, which seeks to strengthen actions already being carried out in a standardized manner against gender-based violence and other forms of violence against women and to develop new ones adapted to the added difficulty of confinement for women, their children and their daughters. What measures, in particular, include this contingency plan? The first is the declaration as essential services of specialized services for the protection and assistance of victims of gender-based violence, as well as their children. In declaring the specialized services as essential services, we wanted to ensure the proper functioning of these services in the context of crisis by adapting, logically, the modalities of providing them to the exceptional circumstances that we live in. In addition to strengthening 016 and the rest of the resources that we already have in the Government Delegation against Gender Violence, we have also launched a new instant messaging service via WhatsApp to be able to consult and provide emotional restraint and psychological assistance 24 hours a day on seven days a week; immediate psychological care for victims by a team of psychologists specialized in gender violence. Also, as I indicated to you, we have developed with the Ministry of the Interior an emergency button and geolocation through the AlertCops application and to strengthen the right to information and the need to influence the awareness and prevention of the entire society. We have also launched the campaign to prevent and raise awareness of gender-based violence during the period of confinement, aimed at the general population and at women victims of gender-based violence with the title 'We are with you, gender-based violence is united'. We have also developed a public policy guide for women who are experiencing gender-based violence that can easily and easily explain the main doubts that women who are victims of gender-based violence may have in this context, translated into different languages - English, Arabic or Chinese - in order to make it easier for all women residing in our country, regardless of their mother tongue, to have access to the answer to these doubts. Finally, I would like to point out that in recent weeks we have been working to extend the measures of this contingency plan to victims of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation, to victims of sexual exploitation, and to women in prostitution contexts in vulnerable situations. As you know, trafficking and sexual exploitation are also serious violations of human rights, affecting thousands of women and girls in our country, and the state of alarm has certainly had a serious impact on their survival and also on the housing autonomy of some of these women, increasing their levels of vulnerability and lack of protection of rights. Both the previous measures and these have been shared at the Observatory against Gender Violence, held last week, and continue to be discussed at the Social Forum against Trafficking, to be held tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, the actual decree-law that we are now subject to validation aims to give a normative response to the measures proposed in the Contingency Plan against Gender Violence that I have just explained to you and also responds to coordination with different ministries - Interior, Health and Justice, to whom I reiterate my gratitude and the work shared - and the different autonomous communities through the coordination tools established by the sectoral conference. In this way, the present royal decree is structured into two fundamental chapters. The first of these contains six articles aimed at ensuring the functioning of the services of assistance and comprehensive protection for victims of gender-based violence in the state of alarm by establishing, as they were told, essential services, the services of comprehensive care for victims of gender-based violence, as set out in Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by COVID-19 and thus ensuring, in particular, the normal functioning of information and advice services 24 hours, telephone and online, as well as tele-assistance services and comprehensive social assistance to victims of gender-based violence. The normal functioning of emergency centres, shelters, wards and safe accommodation is also ensured for victims of gender-based violence, sexual exploitation and trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation, as well as for their children, and it is ensured that hotels and hostels can be used where necessary, as provided for in the relevant order, declaring essential services certain tourist accommodation and adopting supplementary provisions. I would like to stress that the operation of the monitoring system by telematic means is ensured of compliance with precautionary measures and prohibitions on gender-based violence with complete normality, as well as the installation of new devices if necessary. The second chapter of the Royal Decree deals with urgent measures to promote the implementation of the funds of the State Pact against Gender Violence by the Autonomous Communities. This Royal Decree authorizes the use of non-committed remnants at the end of the exercise of the funds of the State Pact of the Autonomous Communities in the following fiscal year, so that the public administrations may allocate their funds under the State Pact against Gender Violence to implement all preventive and assistance projects or programmes contained in this Royal Decree-Law, as well as any other that in the context of the state of alarm is intended to ensure prevention, protection and care against all forms of violence against women. In addition to these measures, we have promoted from the Ministry of Equality a plan to combat ethnic-racial discrimination and a plan to combat discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and identity to facilitate the protection of different groups who may be exposed to situations of risk or greater vulnerability as a result of this crisis and, in particular, as a result of the situation of confinement. I cannot conclude without mentioning the international relevance of this royal decree and the contingency plan to which it responds. UN Women's Director for the region of Europe and Central Asia, Alia El-Yassir, congratulated the Government on its work in this regard, calling it an international reference for the rest of the world. Also, a few weeks after presenting our contingency plan, the World Health Organization indicated to all countries that Governments and public policy makers should include essential services to address violence against women in the preparation and response plans for COVID-19, resources and identify ways to make them accessible in the context of social distancing measures. Also on 5 April, the Secretary-General of the United Nations made an appeal to protect women during confinement. Ladies and gentlemen, just as our State Pact against Gender Violence has been and continues to be an international benchmark, so are we in this area during the crisis. The United Nations, UN Women, the OECD, the Council of Europe or the European institutions have taken an interest both in our contingency plan and in this royal decree from which I am now requesting its validation. I believe that the best news that we could expect today is that this international consensus is also being observed in this House, in the legislative branch of our country, and that we show unity of all political groups with parliamentary representation around a State policy, leaving aside the aggressive questioning of equality policies that, unfortunately, we have been observing for the past few months and which, unfortunately, we have continued to observe in recent weeks. Finally, I would like to point out the positive and necessary coordination with the Autonomous Communities in the development of both the contingency plan and this royal decree. In this regard, we are carrying out all the necessary steps to carry out - as the Autonomous Communities know - the Sectoral Conference on Equality on 4 May. As you know, it is the basic body for cooperation and collaboration between the Government and the Autonomous Communities on equality policies and the prevention of violence against women. We are confident that we will be able to maintain and strengthen coordination between administrations, which is indispensable for the protection of all women from the violence of the sexist, and also that of their sons and daughters. We are also confident in seeking the support of all parliamentary groups so that we can continue to fight against machismo also during this pandemic. And, above all, we trust to do our work effectively so that not a woman in this country will feel alone, so that everyone knows that if they are in a situation of risk or male violence, they will find a welcoming and guaranteed response on the part of society and of each and every one of the administrations. We will gather all their contributions and continue to work to ensure that, as I told you on several occasions in my intervention, this crisis does not lead to a setback in the fight against macho violence, so that this crisis does not pose a greater risk to women who are suffering from such violence and, above all, so that this crisis does not take on the shoulders of the women of our country, as has happened in all previous crises, and especially those women who are already most vulnerable. We want each other alive. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u148	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Firstly, the Joint Parliamentary Group is involved in position-setting. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u149	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. Allow me to sincerely welcome Doña Irene Montero back to the blue bank. I take this opportunity to encourage the sick and wish them soon to overcome the infection, as well as you and other colleagues in Congress and the Senate and staff of the General Courts. A lot of encouragement for all patients and their families. Madam Minister of Equality, you have just presented to us, under the heading of urgent measures in the field of protection and assistance to victims of gender-based violence, a regulation whose validation I will vote against, because it suffers from many of the defects, improvisations and vices that are characterizing the legislative production of the Government of Pedro Sánchez throughout this emergency of the COVID-19. In this royal decree-law, abundant in the literature of filling and very scarce in its operative part, consisting of only eight articles and three transitional and final provisions, it is, no less, that the forgetfulness of including, by the Government of the unknown progress, at the beginning of the current state of alarm, seven weeks ago, the victims of gender-based violence in urgent measures for the protection of vulnerable groups. In order to correct this monumental waste, they now provide a patchy regulation, which could perfectly have already been incorporated into one of the many provisions that have been adopted so far. You have barely referred to the content of the royal decree-law, which is the matter we are here this morning. In fact, the only question that is to be established is that of the implementation of the uncommitted remnants of the State Pact against Gender Violence, of which the United Nations We can, of course, abstained irresponsibly after a total amendment failed to break it down, with your signature, Mrs Montero. [[The Minister of Equality, Montero Gil, makes negative gestures]] In September 2017 they tried to crack down on the State Pact against Gender Violence that the vast majority of us approved in the Congress of Deputies. Since the Council of Ministers is so fond of the additional provisions, this issue could have been resolved with one, but what would this government have been without propaganda? Mrs Montero, the laws must be built to the measure of the Spaniards, not to the measure of the ministers and the ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, the poor technical construction of the Royal Decree-Law, in which it is acknowledged that we already have several regulations in force concerning the care of essential services, which also cover services for the care of victims of gender-based violence, prevents us from supporting it, not only because of its superfluous nature, but also because it contains redundant mandates. Nor does the text clarify how legal aid will be provided to victims, being prohibited by the state of alarm that lawyers, psychologists or social workers receive in their offices to their clients. I will vote against, Madam President, because we are not for propaganda or for sophistication at such a delicate time in the history of Spain, in which we must all focus on state policies that really face the difficulties, blocking the obsession to justify the presence of ministerial portfolios without content, which only seek to draw attention at the expense of the general interest of all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u151	Good morning and thank you very much, Madam President. That victims of gender-based violence need special protection is something I believe we agree with most parties and most citizens, and that in a situation of confinement such as the current one, the risk they run is much greater, I think it is obvious. Therefore, the services currently in place to protect victims, or those who may at any time be, are comparable to those provided by the police to maintain the order of all citizens and, therefore, these services must also be of a special nature as a result of the fact that there is at present a greater vulnerability and therefore the services must be strengthened. I am not going to repeat here all the measures that the Minister has put before us - welcome, I hope that most Spaniards will be able to return soon to their work and their normal lives - but I do want to advance our support and our agreement, which will result in a vote in favour of validation. However, the budgetary question has to be addressed not only in the terms laid down in the Decree-Law as to the use of the remainders of the 2019 financial year, since that faculty, at least for Cantabria, is wet paper since there are no remnants. Look, in my experience of many years of government I have never seen remnants of a game that has not been spent, because it is not only necessary that the game has not been spent or exhausted, but there must be sufficient remnants of Treasury to be incorporated. The consequence, therefore, is that either the State transfers funds so that we can meet the obligations, or greater indebtedness is allowed to the autonomous community. Because, at least Cantabria, at the moment - and I imagine most of it - already has a deficit horizon in 2020 far greater than expected. By the way, I take the opportunity to tell this Government that I think it is high time that they set the deficit and debt targets, even if it is approximately and if they need to be modified, because the autonomous communities are very much in need of something to stick to. We do not want the same to happen as has sometimes happened with other basic legislation, in which the State imposes obligations on the autonomous communities without accompanying them with the corresponding allocations to approve such services or the new rights that are sometimes created. At the moment, there has been an ambitious shock plan in Cantabria, and 700,000 euros are allocated to this item, which is not much, but I hope that it will be more than enough and that, for the good of all, it will not be spent. The Regionalist Party of Cantabria has always voted in favour of any initiative aimed at protecting victims of violence against women and we will always support reforms and agreements aimed at eradicating or at least reducing this great problem that exists in society; but this is a universal problem. Fortunately, Spain is not among those countries, such as the Muslim countries or countries of Africa or South America, or even in many European countries; in short, in most parts of the world. I therefore believe that our legislation has added value, because it can now be the spearhead of women's struggle for equality in all societies where they are terribly marginalized from men.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u152	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Pozueta has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Egun on, guztioi. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Ongi etorri, minister. I hope you have energy and keep it for real use when necessary. We know that we are living in an exceptional situation, and especially those who lived in a situation of vulnerability prior to this health and social crisis feel this exceptional situation. Without victimism, we cannot deny that a very broad sector of women were vulnerable and their day-to-day life has worsened, especially among those suffering from male-based violence. He read an article these days stating that gender-based violence increases in global emergencies. Researchers claim that sexist violence has dramatically increased in the world of coronavirus. The implementation of the State of Alarm Decree has meant isolation, social distancing and restrictions of freedom also for many women who already lived with an abuser and who continue to live with him and continue to suffer male-based violence. It is paradoxical to hear that the number of complaints of ill-treatment has dropped. It may be strange, but I will tell you that in particular in Navarre it has descended - and it has also been a very accused decline - and, according to the data available to us, this situation can be extrapolated to other territories. This fact is concerned and alarmed by the fact that it does not show the reality of homes. If it were the case that the cases of violence had come down, we would be happy, but have the cases really come down? What's the reason why women report less? What limits women who suffer from sexist violence so that they do not report? We cannot forget the data provided by the study by the Government Delegation for Gender Violence, which tells us that women who suffer gender-based violence need an average of eight years and eight months to report, but this also existed three months ago and, unfortunately, there were many more women who reported. [[The lady]] Therefore, Minister, we see a need to carry out a diagnostic study; it is essential to know the reality that has generated this exceptionality and to be able to give exceptional and real answers. We can state that this decree has been short and insufficient. There is an urgent need for rapid action both when it comes to getting the real picture and when it comes to giving an answer. We agree with Minister Montero that comprehensive services are essential for the various administrations to respond to the pandemic of gender-based violence now and always, because, unfortunately, this situation is not exceptional and should cause us to reflect on the information and counselling services and not just on the most serious cases. The decree calls for the coordination of all private institutions and entities, a coordination which, in our view, should have existed previously. We can also say that it is being taken care of from a global perspective - and when we say global it is central, state - as never before, losing the local perspective, the closest to women who suffer from sexist violence. We think this is causing some confusion. From the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu we have as reference to our country, Euskal Herria, and therefore from the administrations both of Navarre and of the Basque Autonomous Community we are promoting initiatives that advance this very decree, but it is necessary to make a specific effort to get the information to all the localities, especially taking care of the rural area, which is often in a situation of abandonment. This is a demand of the feminist movement from time to time. We therefore request that from now on they be considered as essential services for prevention, information and care and that, as such, they be managed, coordinated and budgeted. After forty-five days of confinement and seeing the beginning of the first steps for the so-called descalada, we want to remember that what we need is not a reconstruction of the social and economic order that has brought us here, but a profound transformation of the current outdated model, also in this area, including a gender perspective in all policies. In the speeches before 8 March, we raised the need to put people at the centre of all public policies, a need that has now become clearly a requirement that must be urgently addressed. As you have commented, it is no coincidence that women are concentrated in labour sectors such as cleaning, home care or nursing homes, which have so far been invisible sectors that have been brought up to date and have proved essential in this crisis. We have been aware of the real weight they have in our lives; feminized, impoverished sectors, close to misery. Nor do I want to forget the domestic workers, mostly undocumented migrant women. They find it difficult to regularise their situation so that they can access the insufficient aid approved here for this sector. Does anyone remember to bring dignity to these jobs, to guarantee decent working conditions and wages for these working women? We said this in the speeches of March 8th and May 1st: putting life at the centre and recognizing care. The time has come to move from words to deeds. Therefore, we take care of what we consider essential for life, we take care of those who make it possible, we guarantee decent working conditions making these services public, leaving aside the productive criteria and irrational profits, appreciating the well-being and care of people and preventing the productive sectors from feminizing themselves in order to undervalue them and strip them of their centrality. The decree submitted here today to validation, minister, responds to a situation of inequality and suffering generated by the machismo that permeates this society, although some do not see it. And we also see an urgent response to the social and economic crisis resulting from COVID-19 for women, so that those who were already in poverty do not end up in misery. And we know, Mrs Montero, that you share this need from a feminist perspective. If you want to go this way, we will meet, as I have heard you say. I cannot end without an enormous recognition of the feminist movement and its role, which has been, is and will be key to this, for, as my colleague Mertxe Aizpurua said last week, that the consequences of this crisis do not pay for the usual ones, because the usual ones have above all a woman's face. Eskerrik asko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u154	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u155	Thank you, President. Egun on. Minister, first of all I want to tell you that I am certainly glad that you are here today because that means you have passed the COVID and I am really glad for your early recovery. Having said that, I am surprised that you bring here today a decree when there are only two days left for its expiry, because the ones we defend, understand and are involved in this fight against macho violence we understand that it is more important to validate this decree by all political parties or by most political parties than who is the person who defends it. I understand that you have your priorities, but I also hope you can understand that we believe that this is not the priority of society. Having said that, minister, women who suffer from sexist violence live not only now but every day of the year in a constant state of alarm and that is why it is necessary not to take a single step backwards. It is true, as you have rightly said, that a situation of confinement forces women to live together with their abuser for 24 hours, a dramatic situation and that in some cases it is tragic and that, of course, we are particularly concerned. For those of us who really believe in this struggle, there is no need for a decree to activate the mechanisms or tools of reinforcement that are established in it. In fact, we in Euskadi - or we in Euskadi, better said -, community in which we govern, we have already done so. Emakunde has been working in coordination with all departments of the Basque Government, with the deputies and municipalities since before the start of the alert to give the best response to women victims of male violence. The telephone has been strengthened by 24 hours of care for victims; a document has been prepared on visiting and guarding regimes; aid access has been speeded up and, in collaboration with the Department of Security, new APP 112 has been disseminated that allows for the geolocation of those who download it and that can be notified of the emergency only by pressing a button. All this has been done, moreover, counting on the associations of women victims of sexist violence and before - as I said - the publication of this decree that we are going to validate. What I find sad is that a decree has to be brought to this House because there are governments that still deny the existence of macho violence and do not see the need to implement any measures. The decree that brings us today mainly obliges the administrations not to interrupt any tool or service dedicated to the care of victims of macho violence in these special circumstances, as well as to follow with greater effort, if possible, in the tasks of preventing and combating gender-based violence in all areas, and to this end certain specific guidelines and measures are laid down, which we of course consider to be very timely and necessary. To mention some, the decree establishes reception services for victims of macho violence and other forms of violence against women. This is what we are doing in Euskadi, having municipally competent reception units or emergency units with professional support from outlaws and with constant prevention and information campaigns. In addition, the outlaws and the different local entities offer information, assessment, legal and psychological guidance to victims of macho violence, as you also set out in Royal Decree-Law 12/2020. They should also continue to provide and adapt their delivery to the exceptional needs arising from this alarm. The decree also establishes a system for monitoring by telematic means compliance with precautionary measures and penalties for prohibition and approximation of gender-based violence. In Euskadi, in the Department of Security, all services for victims of violence remain active, with specific follow-up protocols being established for the current situation of confinement, working mainly in two areas and with geolocation tools for women who had initiated before the pandemic some procedure of violence, the Bortxa APP and the 112 APP for the rest, which enables warnings and silent intercommunication, facilitating geolocation, identifying the communicating person and for risk situations. In Euskadi there is not a single administration, however small, that is not reinforcing the fight against macho violence, either with its own resources or using the resources of Emakunde, to make known all the measures to associations of women, feminist groups, pharmacies, primary care and the judiciary, with a clear message: that the administrations coordinate, we have to be coordinated, that all the doors are open and that they can find the support that is needed. For those who do not give importance to it and tell us that complaints have diminished, as if this were a positive or important isolated data, our position will always be that of a comprehensive and coordinated policy. We cannot fail to invest in prevention and care for women who suffer violence. It is also now so complex, when it is essential to put all resources for the prevention, protection and care of these women from all areas, from all administrations, social, economic, psychological, protection and legal resources. That is why we are voting in favour of the validation of this decree. But, in our view, no administration should have waited for this decree not to interrupt or implement the measures set out in it. [[The lady]] In Euskadi, we understand that this fight must be carried out in a coordinated manner and we have different areas of competence that must be respected. Coordination and mutual respect, Minister, are necessary for this struggle and, if so, we will find ourselves on the road. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u156	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u157	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I begin my speech by adding to the solidarity expressed by the parliamentary groups with all the women victims of macho violence in our country, all our support for the families of the mortal victims of this scourge who are living in the confines these days with their aggressor. For them, confinement is not a restriction of their freedoms, but a constant and permanent exposure to the terrible pain inflicted on them by their aggressors who deserve the revulsion of this whole House without palliatives. I am very pleased, Mrs Montero, that you are recovered from the infection, but perhaps you could explain to these women victims of the macho violence why, given the urgency and gravity of the situation, you have not brought this decree to validation before, even if you did not present it. The important thing is the measures for these women and not who presents them. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first half of April, calls to 016 for episodes of male violence have grown by almost 50% over the previous year. This should serve us all as an indication to give us an idea of the especially aggravated circumstances in which many women find themselves when they have to be locked up at home with their attacker. Another fact that you will know is that in 2018 83% of the murders due to male violence took place at the victim's own home. The home, which would have to be the shelter, becomes the focus of greatest danger for many women in our country. All of them must be told that they are not alone - as you have rightly repeated, Minister - that this scourge is a cause that concerns us all and that we must not take a single step back to combat it, nor during the state of alarm, which, as we have said on many occasions, far from suspending, nullifying or restricting our responsibility as public representatives, forces us to work if it fits with greater dedication. The situation of so many women in our country is also one of the most painful faces of this pandemic, and in this regard it is important to bear in mind that there are women who are particularly vulnerable to this scourge, those who have the greatest difficulties in accessing services, women living in rural areas, those who are in situations of extreme poverty, women with disabilities and a long time. As clear defenders of freedom and equality, Citizens have always worked for the most vulnerable groups, and now it would be no less. In the proposals and initiatives presented since the beginning of the crisis, we have included and supported them, with a special focus on victims of gender-based violence. As you know, we have been calling for national reconstruction pacts for weeks, pacts that change improvisation for planning, unilaterality for consensus and ideology for aid to all Spaniards. That spirit, as the Government knows and knows, is the one that moves each and every one of the proposals we have made to them in recent weeks. That is what we are referring to, ladies and gentlemen, when we say that the Spanish ask us for consensus, usefulness, effective measures, and not the political battle. In our actions you will only see a reflection of the best willingness to reach a consensus. Today, we adopt a real decree that precisely contemplates the declaration as essential services of those who have to do with gender-based violence. I announce to you, Minister, that we will support the decree, but we will also ask for its processing as an urgent bill, because it is something we have always defended, but that we believe it is essential to also address the specific reality of women in particular vulnerability. These improvements need a calm debate in order to be able to legislate and establish their needs. We also believe, from the data presented above, that we must ensure from the institutions not only their normal functioning during this crisis, but also a greater effort. We are in an exceptional situation and unfortunately it has terrible consequences for gender-based violence. That is why, on my behalf and on behalf of my group, I would like to show special recognition, as has also been said in this rostrum, to the professionals who provide essential services against male violence. Their work is equally essential and does not rest in times of coronavirus. That is why we must stress that all this is guaranteed with security and with adequate protection to the essential health personnel or personnel they are. We will support, I insist, this decree because it seems to us that, although the Government is not doing everything it can to reach agreement on the measures, the loyalty, the sense of responsibility and the civic commitment that moves us as citizens, they make us support measures to protect those who need it most. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, this debate gives us the opportunity to share a reflection among ourselves. That in the midst of a pandemic we are voting a specific decree against this scourge of macho violence should give us the measure of the importance that, once this exceptional state of alarm ends, we continue to fight together. That is why we welcome the fact that this Government, although some of its members abstained from the Pact against Macho Violence - I refer specifically to its abstention, with its signature, in October 2017, Mrs Montero - remembers the importance of providing funding for the pact of State, the greatest milestone of this House with regard to the fight against this scourge and of which we should all feel inherited and proud, regardless of who pushed it. When we talk about saving lives, there can be no ideology in the middle. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I agree with you that there are issues where there are no political colours, and this is one of them, but we would like to ask you to preach with the same responsibility that you require the opposition to pass decrees when they draft them and when they propose each new measure. The situation was serious and it was not enough for the opposition to have a high eye; it must also have a high eye in the Government. The COVID crisis requires you as a government responsibility in the first place, and just as we welcome the consensus on measures such as those adopted in this decree, we ask you - it is up to you alone - to appear, please, the ideology of the rest of the measures to respond to this economic-sanitary crisis, that you do not become the first dynamites of the reconstruction pacts. Although some did not support the State Pact against Macho Violence, reconstruction must go ahead with the support of all. It is in consensus that we become strong and take steps forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Valentina. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u159	Thank you, Madam President. The Spanish state had, before the arrival of the COVID-19, a scourge on male violence. The arrival of the coronavirus has added circumstances of greater vulnerability to many women who, in many cases, have been forced to confine themselves to their abusers, creating a situation of greater danger. Indeed, the number of complaints, as indicated, has increased exponentially. In this terribly complicated context, there are no magic solutions. The capacity of both associations and institutions to act is limited. That is why we appreciate positively the measures that, while still limited, are reflected in this royal decree. With regard to the substance of the state pact, although it seems to us right to seek formulas for its implementation, we believe that the debate on its endowment and on the criteria for distribution, which do not take into account certain factors such as dispersion or ageing, is still pending. The Government must ensure that sufficient resources are allocated now and once the confinement is completed. The COVID-19 crisis cannot be used as an excuse once again to cut policies on equality or to combat gender-based violence. I'm done. We will vote in favour, but we do not comply; the Government must tackle the problem of under-financing of these services, which is not, in our view, solved by this royal decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u161	Thank you, President. First of all, we are happy with your recovery, Minister. Secondly, from More Country-Equo we will support the validation of this royal decree-law. I would like to raise three questions with you. First, we want this decree and its measures to be interlinked with coordination with the autonomous communities and with the State Pact against Gender Violence. Secondly, now and then, we want a clear road map in the fight against machismo. We will accompany her in the courage and strength against the extreme right that she has placed on the target of her attacks on feminism and the struggle for women's rights. We'll go with her, but we ask her for courage. Thirdly, Mrs Montero, today, in the descalation and in the new normality, women are more vulnerable to confinement and, therefore, we call for more action, more strength and more continuity in the campaigns. And we ask that the focus be broadened; women today have difficulty negotiating and therefore cannot act alone. The campaign already does, but we want more continuity and firmerness. Women at risk will only survive - alone - with a shield of solidarity, neighbourhood and social, and therefore campaigns must be directed towards creating that shield with strength and determination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u162	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u163	Thank you, Madam President. 'Why is that woman screaming? / Why are you yelling?' I begin with verses from the Argentine poet Susana Thénon because, as you know perfectly well, minister, gender equality is always a matter of power, and we would have liked her ministry to have deployed transversal actions in the Government, because the crisis resulting from the coronavirus has again found that under the tyranny of urgency and the neglect of the gender perspective it contributes to maintaining inequality and discrimination against women, which persists, in the words of the Secretary of the United Nations, as an overwhelming global injustice. The concrete example in dates. On 5 March, the European Commission adopted the new Strategy for Gender Equality 2020-2025, which committed itself to eliminating inequalities in order to move towards an egalitarian Europe and to the integration of the gender perspective precisely through its systematic inclusion in all stages of policy design and in all areas of action of the European Union. Twenty days later, the Equality Commissioner stated that COVID-19 is exerting, and I quote, 'disproportionate pressure on women in all their diversity', and called precisely for the protection of women's rights in areas such as gender-based violence including additional resources. While 'women provide global health, men lead it', it is the very eloquent title of a WHO report. The real decree that we are debating - and that will count on our vote in favour despite its limitations and that suffers rather from another virus, that of recentralization - focuses on one of the most unjust problems of this inequality, which is expressed in the form of violence. If 35 per cent of women worldwide are victims of sexual, physical or psychological violence, these figures increase with increased tension due to confinement. The Economist published global data in this context, and one of them seems particularly shocking to me. In Denmark, calls for crimes of male violence have more than doubled, rising by 140%, while complaints of common crimes have fallen to 50 %. In Catalonia we have similar figures. But, in addition, these figures probably undervalue the problem very much because many aggressors remain at home, without the victims being able to ask for help. So this may be the most silent crime of all we're living. And we are faced with the paradox that the state of alarm and confinement decreed to protect the citizens as a whole condemn many of these women to suffer their abuser twenty-four hours a day. All these are triple victims: they are victims of their aggressor, they are victims of their confinement with their aggressors and they are victims in the workplace because they have run out of income or remain agony waiting for the money of the ERTE or the aid to self-employed to come to their accounts at once. The work done by hundreds of entities and professionals deserves our thanks every day and not, Minister, that they are blamed for the helplessness of many victims in the current context, as was deduced from an unfortunate drafting of an official document of your ministry, fortunately rectified as a result of pressure from entities in the sector. Despite the work of all these professionals, we fear that the good intentions of the decree will remain in wet paper if they are not accompanied by funding and care to get the aid to the victims as soon as possible. I'm done. We ask you not to pass this decree on to the same as to the funds derived from the State Pact against Gender Violence, which the autonomous organizations responsible for managing them still expect to be communicated to them and allocated the funds for the 2020 financial year, and we are now at the end of April. We are talking about resources that are not being allocated from close proximity to the victims in the most necessary period of their suffering. To defend the victims less military presence for advertising purposes and more commitment and funding to end this scourge, because now is the time. 'No more screaming'. [[Do you remember that woman?]] I hope we all wake up. Thank you very much, Minister. We are very happy with your recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u164	Thank you very much, Mrs Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Valentina. Mr Rufián Romero has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u165	Thank you very much, President. First of all, we are happy for your presence here today, Minister, it means that you are recovered. The second thing is to apologize because I should not be here today making this speech, I should be here any of my companions, for obvious reasons. But it is even more obvious that, by force majeure, today they cannot be and I will simply be his voice. This parliamentary group does not want to expose anyone else as necessary in the midst of this pandemic. Today I could announce to you and state to you all the measures we have to try to enrich this royal decree, a good royal decree. I could talk to you about encouraging, encouraging the recruitment of even more professionals for the psychological support of the victims, expanding the mobile public housing park, talking about a post-contained plan of action for detection and protection, but surely, Minister, we will have more opportunities to talk about this and be able to introduce ideas. But this is the typical subject that I think deserves another approach so that, above all, it does not make it easy for whom. There are moments in history, in life, when things change not because they are known, but because things really hurt us. As long as we know, until they hurt us, we don't change them. And there are people, there are events, there are icons, they change absolutely everything. I'm going to read you something; it's the interview that was given to Ana Orantes in the prime time of Canal Sur, twenty-three years ago. - No, no, no, Question: Ana, you married only 19 years old. How did you meet your husband? - No, no, no, Answer: I met him in a Corpus. I went to a dance with a neighbor and danced like we made boyfriends. - No, no, no, Question: And just three months after you meet, you decide to get married. How did your parents take it? - No, no, no, Answer: My father cried like a child. Before I left, he said to my husband, "You take the sun from my house." So, I went to my father-in-law's house, they threw away our blessings and we got married. - Question: Tell us what happened the day you first hit her. - Answer: My parents-in-law didn't have a yard in their house and they paid a woman to wash their clothes and put it on theirs. I couldn't do the same thing because my husband's paper didn't go so far, so my mother offered to take her sheets so I could put them on. That day I was going to my parents' house for that, I told my father-in-law and I told my husband. My parents' house was far away, half an hour's walk, so I'm late. When I got there I went to say hello to my husband, then he turned around and hit me. That was the first time. - Question: Your father-in-law found out, what happened? - No, no, no, Answer: Yes, my father-in-law found out because I screamed very loudly, it was the first time. He asked me what had happened, I told him and he went looking for my husband to ask for explanations. - Question: And your mother-in-law, what did she do? - Answer: Quite the opposite. My mother-in-law came from a massacre and when she found out she told my father-in-law that what my husband did was our thing and that he didn't have to go in, kiss me or hit me. - Question: Ana, what was your husband doing after work? - Answer: He spent all afternoon drinking and playing cards, and when he came home he always found a reason for discussion: if the food was cold because it was cold, if it was hot because it was hot; the question was to hit me. Sometimes I'd sit in a chair and hit myself with a stick until I couldn't anymore and I'd give him the reason. - Question: Didn't you report him for ill-treatment? - No, no, no, Answer: At first I did not denounce it because at that time it was not done, then, at the end, yes, but the truth is that it did not serve me much. What I'm told is that fights are normal in family and that he's the only thing he does is what happens in many homes. - Question: Ana, how'd the money go? - Answer: Like this, like this. He gave me the money, but I always had to keep his bottle or his two bottles ahead of him, and his cognac in the morning. He was always the first, the second and the third. - Question: One of her daughters married only 14 years old, why? - Answer: Because he wanted to abuse her. I didn't want my daughter to get married so soon, I told her to take it, but she insisted and got married. - Question: What then encouraged her to request a divorce just over a year ago? - No, no, no, Answer: Because in one of the last discussions he grabbed me by the neck and tried to drown me. I asked for a divorce and they gave it to me. Since we have a two-storey house, I got the one upstairs and he got the one downstairs. At first, he was just threatening me, then he met a woman and left. - Question: But he comes home from time to time. - Answer: Yes, I start shaking every time he does. When the dog barks, we know it's coming. - Question: You've been married for forty years, what have you been to him? - Answer: Absolutely nothing. I've never been anything to him or loved me, he's just beaten me up and sane. - Question: After all that has happened, you say you have no illusion for anything. - Answer: Now Christmas is coming and yes, I have no illusion for life; I'm like buried alive and I just want to cry. I ask the Lord why I had to deal with this man. Ana Orantes, Canal Sur, December 4, 1997. Thirteen days later, the evil beast of her ex-husband, José Parejo, sprayed her back - from her back -, burned her and killed her. That interview and murder changed absolutely everything and raised awareness of a society that had normalized those things for too many years. The response of the People's Party government was that it was an isolated case of an eccentric. Until 2004, with a government of the PSOE, Mr Zapatero, it was not legislated. Today, twenty-three years later, there is a group called VOX that denies it, that continues to deny this, that continues to call it eccentricities. So important is to remember again, so important is to fight again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u167	Good morning. 'Remember when the landscape began to fade. / I held you until you learned to walk in the air.' These are some verses from Leonard Cohen that I come to through doctor Javier Padilla, and he through doctor Rafa Cofiño, who is undoubtedly doing a huge job in Asturias, as so many people who work in the health field throughout the state. Remember that when the landscape began to fade I held you until you learned to walk in the air. From this goes - they say, and I share it - the work of the public health system and from this, in my opinion, goes the very concept of health, beyond the pure and strictly sanitary. Now that we understand that our public health is a common one to protect, let us look beyond, because health transcends the logical barriers of health. To talk about health is to talk about how we have thought about our cities and our peoples, about public services and the guarantee of their access; it is to talk about care and to make this work visible and to those who do it, who are the ones who sustain life, and it is to talk about free lives, free from sexist violence. Many studies reflect how in the face of crises, whether economic, migratory or climatic, women's risk of machist violence increases. For this certainty, it is to greet and recognize the actions of the Ministry of Equality and that of the Government, both with this royal decree and with the contingency plan, which since its launch - because it is launched - has demonstrated its necessity and function. The minister has already explained how the number of calls to 016 has increased, as well as consultations through the courier service that enabled the ministry in the face of the pandemic's health crisis. The coordination with the autonomous communities, the reinforcement of all the services involved in the protection and accompaniment of women who suffer machista violence, as well as their daughters and children, is key in a context of confinement, and above all it is key - and it has been shown - that the fight against machista violence challenges us as a society as a whole, that those who suffer it are not alone, that we want to be alive and free and that in this want to be alive and free we must be as a matter of state, and this House approved it in 2017, in order to be able to talk about democracy without blushing and without cheating. The meaning and proper functioning of the contingency plan measures have led to international recognition by the United Nations, UN Women, OECD or the Council of Europe. In addition, I will tell you, it is good to see how this concern goes beyond our borders and other countries have made clear the commitment to act against sexist violence in this global pandemic, for the right to a life free of sexist violence and because rights are either for all or not rights. And all this is not new, it is the result of the commitment of the feminist movement in all parts of the world. Today we have a Ministry of Equality that knows that in its road map, in not leaving anyone behind, we have to keep in mind each and every one of the women, with a cross-sectional look that reminds us that there are elements that go through in exposure to sexist violence: class, ethnicity, gender identity, sexual orientation, functional diversity, the administrative situation. This is because it is this strong feminist movement that has been pointing the way and because feminism - as the minister has shown in her intervention - is the democratic compass to achieve social justice. I therefore appeal to your ladies and gentlemen to bear in mind the consensus reached by this House with the state pact. Yes, that pact, which, made a report of basic recommendations to follow, initiates work for the eradication of sexist violence throughout the State. That pact which, I am going to ask you, does not explain to this Member what it is like because, unlike the people who have intervened on the part of other parliamentary groups, it was in it. I was a part of it and I was also able to check the political height at the time. It must be said that this pact exists because it was unanimously adopted by all parliamentary groups in the subcommittee of the State pact. One is delighted to explain how this House works for those who do not yet know it, but, of course, the knowledge of the proper functioning of the House seems to then not to give rise to such empty headlines as some use. What I think is not coherent, Mr Oblanca - I am addressing you - is to strike at the text of a state pact, a report, and then vote against this royal decree. This Member does not know whether it is because she has not read the pact or because she has not read the royal decree, but, whether by ignorance or by lying, you should know that it is unworthy to lie in this House and confuse citizens at a time like this. [[Mr Martínez Oblanca asks for the floor]] Those who today, in such a sensitive and serious context for so many women like this, break this consensus - know it - are breaking with basic democratic principles, because it is those democratic, civic, community principles that make citizens come out at 8:00 p.m. to their windows and balconies. We need in those principles to recognize those who are sustaining life. The people have it clear, the essential services: doctors, nurses, workers and cleaning workers, who clean our streets and also our portals, the people who work in food, all of them sustain life in a situation of confinement, and in this new normality we will have to keep them present beyond applause, in their rights, in public policies, jobs that structurally have carried out and continue to perform fundamentally women. Today, we talk and think all day from our homes, from the work that remains active, in what is going to be the so-called new normality, we have to make it clear that sexist violence does not have to be in the so-called new normality, that sexist violence can never be part of our normality anymore, because unfortunately, until recently it was named, it was part of normality, as it has been reported through - thank you for bringing it to this House - Ana Orantes. Above all, it must be those voices that take the lead at this time and in this debate. So tell me, ladies and gentlemen, who is willing to vote against this royal decree to continue making macho violence still part of normalcy. To say no to this royal decree is to continue to consider that it is something that happens yes or yes in the normal way. I'm finishing up, President. Everything exceptional about the state of alarm, the confinement, has to make us look from logics that may not be the usual. Let us speak from the logic of the protection of the common, the logic of care. Don't worry, eh?, which also has epic. And if not to be told to women who go from being victims in a situation of male violence to being survivors. If you want to see epic, look there, but please don't turn them into heroines, neither they nor any of the people who face the most risk and exposure in this situation generated by the health crisis. In a democracy there must be no heroines; there must be women, there must be free people with lives free of any kind of violence, lives free of sexist violence, lives worthy of being lived. It's in your hand, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u168	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mr. Martínez Oblanca asks for the floor.]] Mr. Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u169	Madam President, I have been referred to in this speech by the spokesman for the United Nations Group, Podemos, who attributes to me that I have been told lies in the rostrum, and I would like to reply briefly.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u170	Without going into the background of the debate, please refer to the exact expression. It is not a replica turn, but a strict turn for you to manifest the allusion to which you refer.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u171	Mrs Fernández Castañón attributed to me a lie when I made reference to the State Pact against Gender Violence adopted here in September 2017. The Journal of Sessions does not allow lies, it leaves no room for doubt. That pact of state, adopted by majority in this House with the vote in favour of Forum - with my vote in favour - was rejected with the abstention by United Podemos, who previously tried to place an amendment to the whole to overthrow it. The experience of the United Nations We can with the state covenants is reflected in this and in the Toledo Pact. Nothing more, Madam President. [[Mrs Fernández Castañón asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u172	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. Mrs. Fernández Castañón.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u173	Thank you, President. When I referred to lies or ignorance by the Member of the Foro Asturias, although I have already explained it, I did not refer to what has to do with the approval of the state pact, only possible in the subcommission, but rather to the ignorance of the royal decree. If you want me to explain to the honourable Member that I am referring, in particular, to the fact that he has said that there is no legal accompaniment, but I would say that he is trying to call 016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Castañón. Mrs Toscano de Balbín has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u175	Thank you, Madam President. I want to convey from here my deepest condolences to the family and friends of all those who have lost their lives for this pandemic. My prayers are with them, with all those infected and hospitalized and with all those who fight this virus. Ladies and gentlemen, it is regrettable that today, with 24 000 people killed by coronavirus - according to the government's information - and on the road to the economic debacle to which we are being pushed, we have to be talking about gender-based violence. But we have to do this because the propaganda machine of Marxist feminism does not rest, not even before 24,000 dead. Their Marxist feminism needs money and, to that end, they have re-created a back door with which to skip the budget law and thus be able to accumulate more subsidies year after year. But we won't stop here today. As we did with another trap that set Mr. Iglesias in the Official Secrets Commission, we will go to the Constitutional Court to appeal against this royal decree-law, also showing the abuse by which they arbitrarily allocate EUR 15 million to private television. The country is sinking and is gripping with a pandemic, but its radical feminism is only concerned with its chiringuitos and, with this, it drags a Government that should be concerned exclusively about the contagion and the deceased. With this Royal Decree-Law of urgent measures for the protection of victims of gender-based violence, the Bubble Government, in addition to violating the law, lies again to us. Neither these measures require urgency, nor will they give real protection to the victims, nor does violence have gender. The only urgency that exists here is to economically shield your chiringuitos, who profit from the tragedy of ill-treatment to live off public money and who are unwilling to lose privileges while the Spaniards face a crisis that will haunt us decades. How can they talk about money for the state pact when there are no tests or breathers for everyone? How can they expect to spend money on institutional campaigns to spread their ideology when Spanish health care providers were wearing garbage bags? How can they say joyfully to the autonomous communities that spend money on feminist propaganda while millions of Spaniards have run out of work? I hope you don't have the little shame of repeating the feminist sophasia that machismo kills more than coronavirus; I only give you these numbers, 1051 tragically murdered women in seventeen years compared to 24,000 dead in two months. Still, you're making us come here to sneak up on funds to keep your chiringuitos. These millions that you want to waste in feminism are always a waste, but right now they are a criminal waste. The measures provided for in this royal decree, such as the pact to which they are attached, only protect women who are the victims of a heterosexual male; therefore, they exclude men, children, the elderly and all other forms of violence. In addition, the Shame Pact requires the extension of victim status to women who have not reported, which means a pool of false claims for benefits. This pact requires the implementation in schools of feminist ideological indoctrination programs. Here's something I want to tell you, Mrs. Montero. Our children are ours, not yours, and whenever they attack our constitutional right to educate them according to our convictions they will face us. This pact introduces the aggravating gender. Man is punished for merely being so, violating article 14 of the Constitution. This pact also violates the principle of in dubious pro reo and the principle of presumption of innocence, and the most important consequence is that women who are assaulted remain unprotected, because, accept it, their laws do not work. How are they going to work if the money that should help them to have a better life is spent on chiringuitos and their killers go out on the street instead of rotting in jail with the reviewable permanent prison? In short, this State Pact against Gender Violence, adopted by all parties except VOX, provides constitutional guarantees and eliminates basic civil rights for half of the population. It is a disastrous consequence of an ideological process that, with the connivance of the fear of being pointed out with the yellow star of machismo, suppresses judicial guarantees, which give legal certainty to the individual and underpin the rule of law. In addition, this pact and its gender laws systematically violate the Istanbul Convention, which they so much like to espouse in order, under their command, to harm the rights of all non-heterosexual women. In short, this is a pact that forces me to correct my admired colleague, Dr. Steegmann, who called the coronavirus the red plague. I'm afraid your feminism - sectarian and exclusive - is the real red plague. You, the left in general and feminism in particular, invent an idea, shape it into a political objective that is profitable to you and baptize it as a fundamental right. From there, they aspire to end any discrepancy, because those of us who oppose your idea will be tainted by fascists, machoists, dangerous and unconstitutional, and conveniently demonized and persecuted because, in your opinion, we oppose your fundamental right. And this is what happens to feminism. But we are not going to allow it, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to allow it to continue to impose its totalitarian ideas, which murder freedoms with the excuse of protecting their fundamental rights. We are not going to allow, with the false excuse of protecting women, to break rights such as constitutional equality and the presumption of innocence, or their related associations to continue to feed at the expense of Spanish taxes, or that truly abused women remain unprotected, or to look elsewhere when the victims are men, children or the elderly. We will not allow the discrimination that their laws make against homosexuals, because much put behind the banner on Gay Pride Day, but they leave them unprotected when they really need it. We will not allow, in the midst of the pandemic and with 24 000 dead, to waste the Spanish time and money in their totalitarian plan, because to defend this pact and this royal decree is not to defend human rights, as they want us to believe; to defend this pact is to bet on lies, totalitarianism and the violation of fundamental rights. To defend this pact is to accept the inequality between Spaniards and between sexes, to accept that there are first and second victims, is to buy his speech of hatred against man. In short, to defend this covenant is to accept injustice. They will be able to insult us and call us fascists whenever they want, but VOX will continue to defend a law of domestic violence that guarantees protection, equality and justice for all: children, men, women, heterosexuals or homosexuals. We will continue to defend without truce the presumption of innocence and the equality of all Spaniards before the law. Ladies and gentlemen, history will demonstrate the unfairness of your model of society. History will also condemn those who are thirsty and unprincipled, such as the People's and Citizens'Party, and all the accomplice parties to the State Pact against Gender Violence for destroying innocent lives of many falsely denounced men and for undermining the fundamental rights of half the population. But to you, gentlemen of the Socialcommunist Government, history will judge you for having miserably abandoned Spain to a pandemic and for having invested more effort in feeding feminism and hatred than in protecting and saving the lives of all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Toscano. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Cepeda. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Marcos Domínguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u177	Thank you very much, Madam President. I want to begin by conveying my group's condolences to the families of the 325 people who have died today - according to the data that have just been made public - our best wishes for recovery for all the sick and an infinite gratitude to all the health personnel who are turning into this crisis: 39,230 doctors and nurses have become infected in their work to cure us all. Madam Minister, I am very pleased that your lordship is already fully recovered from COVID-19 and can join this plenary, almost empty, to expose us to the Royal Decree-Law 12/2020. Your convalescence has led to the rule that we are debating today having a month of life, long enough for your department to have thoroughly assessed the impact of the measures. And for that assessment I ask you, because your lordship has spoken of many things, but very little of the royal decree-law. See, 12/2020 states that essential services will be considered: one, information and legal advice 24 hours a day to women victims of gender-based violence; two, tele-assistance and comprehensive social assistance to these victims; and three, reception services. Very well, extraordinary, if not because all that was already provided for in the law and developed in the 2017 State Pact against Gender Violence, a pact that my group voted here - here - in favor of and not yours. Do you remember? You may not remember it because today you have called it an international reference; so phenomenal. Madam Minister, there is a first question that must be asked. In this month of the royal decree-law can you list the minister how many services of information, assistance and reception have been carried out throughout Spain thanks to the 12/2020, but could not have been provided in the absence of this norm? How many, where and at what cost? I ask you and ask you for an answer in detail here or in writing. Indeed, for reception services, article 3.3 of the Royal Decree-Law provides for the use of tourist accommodation facilities. What kind of accommodation and for how long? And a truly surprising question: Why have you not foreseen in your royal decree-law the minimum monitoring requirement of COVID-19 for these reception establishments?, because the tests, ladies and gentlemen, are also indispensable here. No one wants to escape violence in order to be unprotected in the face of a pandemic. It is true that the data on gender-based violence murders that you have published shows a fall in March, with the start of the big prison. Without minimizing anything, Mrs Montero, it is more than doubtful that this good data is the result of the measures of your royal decree, because, in fact, the only relevant novelty of 12/2020 is that it decides to exempt compliance with the General Budget Law. Article 7 says that we skip that law, on an exceptional basis, that is, and limited to a credit of 100 million euros that the State Pact on Gender Violence distributes among the autonomous communities. You see, Minister, the General Budget Act says something very easy to understand: if an autonomous community does not spend part of its credit in one year, that remaining amount will be deducted the following year from its amount for that same credit. Have you not thought that if there was a remnant and it wasn't spent perhaps it was because there was no reason to spend it? And above all - now that the Minister of Finance is here - what is the point of rewarding non-compliance at a time of as much budgetary stress as the current one? An additional fact: it turns out that the 12/2020 is the only royal decree-law of the coronavirus that exempts from complying with the General Budget Law. Your colleagues on the Council of Ministers will look at you with great envy, Mrs Montero. In these weeks of descent by the coronavirus you will have seen - we have seen it all - the efforts of your Government to explain to us that we had to bend two curves: the curve of the infected and the curve of the deceased. They had to be bent because before they fired all their exponential force pushed by the explosive cocktail of imprudence, improvisation and imposition of his Government. Imprudence, improvisation and imposition. Imprudence, because they did not listen to anyone, did not respond to the warnings of the World Health Organization, those of the European Commission or the alert of countries as close as Italy. Didn't you ever think that suspending the Venice Carnival couldn't be a whim? And the Mobile, didn't turn on any alarms, either? Possibly, they did not even heed that unknown follow-up committee that - we have been told - advised them daily since 13 January. Imprudence and improvisation because you continued to diminish the importance of the virus until you passed the magic date of March 8. So it was a flu, remember? The Community of Madrid made all the alarms go away when it decided, in solitary, to close schools after having closed, also in solitary, the centres of the elderly. You all know that it must have been done before. Everyone knows that the great difference in the impact of the pandemic between different countries is explained by the moment when the first steps are taken, because the impact is not symmetrical and the incompetence of its response measures the asymmetry of our destruction. We are paying the price of your recklessness to impose your agenda with the strictest of confinements and the most painful record of truncated lives. Think honestly, Minister, what was the cost of the banalization of the virus before March 8 to postpone any decision of that demonstration? 'You're going to live on it,' predicted Vice President Calvo; while you were chanting that'sole and drunk I want to get home' or 'Madrid will be the tomb of fascism'. For none of this is feminism, nothing, ladies and gentlemen; it is a sign of lethal sectarianism. That is why today, with 212,917 infected and 24,275 dead, according to official figures, I want to ask you a question and ask you an answer. With the reports you had and did not respond, would you postpone everything again so as not to undermine your divisive agenda? Would you re-encourage participation in the March 8 demonstrations?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u178	Mrs. Marcos, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u179	I'm just finishing up, Your Honor. We can hear your apologies, because, as you said, we want to live. There you can say we can, because we can, Your Honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marcos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Valentina. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cantera de Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u181	Thank you, ma'am, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. My condolences, like those of the whole Socialist Parliamentary Group, to the families of the victims and the sick of this pandemic. The world of most Spaniards and Spaniards has been reduced in recent weeks to the four walls of their home. It is a difficult situation, of which there is no doubt, but at least in cases where confinement is due to civic action not to go out on the street in order not to be infected or to be infected, one lives in good health. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to make a little effort, to activate your empathy. I ask you to put yourselves on the skin of a woman who has been suffering from ill-treatment for a long time by her partner, with whom she lives under the same roof; a woman who every day fears the arrival of that couple to the home they share, who fears to reach that home herself who is not, which is actually a prison in which the only thing she receives is physical, psychological or both ill-treatment, a place where her bones, soul and heart break. For that person, the situation of confinement has turned those hours of coexistence with his aggressor into an eternity, a hell without interruption, without any breath. This decree that we submit to validation today wants to reach out to those thousands of women who have suffered and are suffering the confinement in the company of their aggressor. This decree is serving to have at their disposal several tools and more services; so that they can ask for help when they need it, because beatings are not normal in the family; so that they do not feel alone; so that they do not believe that society has turned their backs on them because of the urgency of the virus. These women need to know that there is someone out there who remains vigilant and at their disposal. Let us also not forget that, along with their mothers, there are many minors who are afraid of male violence. Our support for this decree also goes for them. The abusers also need to know that all services in the fight against macho violence - police, courts, lawyers, prosecutors, social services and many others - were declared as essential services. Impunity against abusers does not exist. You have no place to hide, nor in this situation. Obviously, the context has forced the adaptation of these services, hence the value and necessity of this decree. As the minister has already said, UN Women has acknowledged the great work that Spain is doing against male violence during the confinement, which represents a culture of zero tolerance against male violence. In turn, it has warned that gender inequalities worsen in any crisis, including increasing levels of violence against women. We have known some data that, while not conclusive, give us clear indications of what has happened and is happening these days of confinement in the homes of men who assault and murder their women. We already have some figures showing a drop in complaints because of the logical difficulties women have in escaping from their aggressors - the last one with seven of their children - and going to the police stations or the courts. But let us not be fooled or misled, ladies and gentlemen, this does not mean that gender-based violence has diminished the least; on the contrary, it has been camouflaged, it has been hidden. The president of the Observatory against Domestic and Gender Violence, Ángeles Carmona, reported on this decrease in complaints, but in turn, as has also been recalled here, and let me repeat, that the family home is the scene of 83% of cases of murder of women at the hands of their partners or ex-partners. The Minister of the Interior recently gave us another fact: the State Security Forces and Corpses, which are always vigilant, vigilant, have arrested more than 4100 men for gender-based violence since the beginning of the confinement. In contrast to the rest of the complaints, the phone number 016 recorded the largest number of calls in the last three years and an increase in messages to the same phone, which experienced in the first days of confinement a rebound - take note, ladies and gentlemen of VOX - of 286%, I repeat, 286%. The laughs here don't fit, ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, in the first half of April, the recovery over the same period last year was 650 %, ladies and gentlemen. The new psychological care service by Whatsapp recorded more than 700 consultations in just three weeks. We've also heard of two sexist murders, and another is under investigation. From here, I would like to express my strong condemnation and that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the greatest affection for the families and friends of the victims. According to a study published last year about the time it takes for women victims of gender-based violence to verbalize their situation, we know that on average it takes almost nine years, and older women even fifteen years. It is fifteen years of abuse, beatings, threats, broken bones, tears, blood, suffering souls, fear, fear of fear. And we know, according to this study, that living with the aggressor is a variable that negatively influences this decision to get out of the situation of violence. In at least half of the cases, the factor with the greatest incidence, the most retracting factor, is the fear of the aggressor, his reaction and the reprisals he may take, especially against his sons and daughters. We also know from this study that social support from the nearby environment is an important factor in making the decision to break up gender-based violence and that such support from the environment can act as a protective factor. According to the macro-survey of violence against women, three out of four women affected by physical or sexual violence have told someone in their environment in whom they have placed their trust. That is why all citizens are being appealed to by the Government these days, because now, more than ever, it is of vital importance that the eyes and, above all, the ears be multiplied. Complain when necessary; do so, they will be able to save many lives, because women who are confined to their aggressor are now more difficult to do so. This situation also reaffirms the conviction that equal education is fundamental: it was an 11-year-old child who saved his mother by calling the police and giving the voice of alarm when she was being assaulted. Even so, women who suffer gender-based violence should know that they have all the usual services at their disposal and, in addition, new ones, targeting them as well as victims of sexual exploitation and trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation. Ladies and gentlemen, I am finishing up, women who are victims of gender-based violence are, of course, a particularly vulnerable group, especially in a situation like the current one. Before even passing this decree in the Council of Ministers, nothing more than the start of the state of alarm, the Government launched a contingency plan to prevent, control and minimize risks, long before, ladies and gentlemen. We are faced with a set of measures that reinforce those contained in the legal text, the comprehensive law, which has recognized for over fifteen years that gender-based violence is not a problem that affects the private sphere, but is the most brutal symbol of inequality in society. These various international provisions recognize gender-based violence, such as violence against women, simply because it is such violence. In no way can or should it be confused with other types of violence, which are, there is no doubt, but which in no case have the structural character specifically discriminatory or obey patriarchal domination, as is the case with gender-based violence. Ladies and gentlemen, at first I asked you to make an empathetic effort, and it is that, in the same way as the state pact did, the adoption of this decree must have the maximum political consensus, because the emergency is also behind the walls of many homes, even of many that are not affected. Support for this royal decree is support for the victims, the denial is to forget about them, but abstention is the worst of reproaches, because it is directly not counting even that it exists. I'm finishing up, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u182	Yes, Mrs. Cantera, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u183	I'm just finishing up, just one thing addressed to Mr. Rufián. Mr. Rufián, you and I have many differences, but let me give you some advice, although I know you don't need it: the voices of men in feminism accompany us women, because they make us stronger and make feminism indestructible. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u184	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cantera. Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u185	Thank you, President. I speak only to show my gratitude, because I believe that the majority of this House will validate this Royal Decree 12/2020, which, as you know, has been in force since 2 April; the contingency plan to which it responds in a normative way has been in force since 17 March. I appreciate all the contributions you have made. We will continue to dialogue, both at this plenary session and at the sectoral conference, above all with regard to coordination with the Autonomous Communities or any other measures which they believe should be promoted by the Ministry of Equality. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u186	Thank you very much, Minister of Equality. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 14/2020, OF 14 APRIL, EXTENDING THE TERM FOR THE PRESENTATION AND REVENUE OF DETERMINED TRIBUTARY DECLARATIONS AND AUTOLIQUIDATION. [[File number 130/000015]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u187	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 14/2020 of 14 April, extending the deadline for the filing and entry of certain tax returns and self-liquidation. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u188	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to everyone and everyone. Indeed, I appear in this House to request the validation of Royal Decree-Law 14/2020, approved by the Council of Ministers held last April 14th; a Royal Decree postponing all tax declarations of April for SMEs and self-employed persons. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the health crisis that our country is experiencing with the rest of the world has led this government to launch an unprecedented set of measures to alleviate the effects of confinement on economic and, therefore, productive activity. And they also know that the reality of everyday life is being difficult, very difficult, for families, for workers and for the most vulnerable groups in our society, but also for SMEs and self-employed people, whom I remind your ladies and gentlemen who represent around 95% of our total productive fabric. That is why the Government's goal has always been to protect the incomes of the middle and working classes and to help the most vulnerable groups so that the effects of the crisis are the least possible, so that no one is left behind. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a very important management differential in relation to what happened in the 2008 crisis, in which the Spanish middle class was weakened, inequalities were increased and there were effects that have not yet been alleviated. That is why we must help those who, with their efforts, are raising this country every day and contributing to its maintenance, its strength and, therefore, to its progress. That is why important decisions have been taken in recent weeks in an effort by the Executive as well. We would say that the entire muscle of the country has been activated to contain the health pandemic and to mitigate its social, labour or economic consequences. We have done this, first, with the aim of protecting citizens, guaranteeing their health, and second, to allow them to travel in the best possible conditions. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we share all those who are here and those who listen to us from their homes that Spanish society is an example of compliance with all the measures of confinement, but also an example of solidarity, and it will also - I am sure - be an example of recovery. I am convinced that among all of us we will resolve an exit from this crisis as effectively as possible, but also as just as possible. While this happens, the Government is where it has to be, making decisions commensurate with the circumstances. In fact, we have acted speedily, responsibly and transparently to ensure that citizens, on the one hand, receive the best public services and, on the other hand, have a powerful safety net that allows them to move through these weeks until, gradually, we can regain mobility, economic activity and, ultimately, our new normality. Ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware of the number of businesses and the number of self-employed people who, by complying with this confinement of the population and by reason of their responsibility, have had to decrease their activity and have therefore seen their turnover affected or, directly, they have seen it paralysed. A large part of them have had to go to the ERTE mechanisms strengthened for the greater reason, which have allowed certain sectors of our economy to remain in a sort of hibernation, with the aim of being activated at the appropriate time in light of the evolution of the pandemic, circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, which yesterday the President of the Government expressed through the so-called transitional plan or descalation plan. This measure has undoubtedly allowed us to protect workers and self-employed people, even those who have not yet had minimum periods of contributions, and has therefore made it possible for families to have an income guarantee. It has also made it easier for companies to opt for this temporary suspension or for the reduction of working hours without having been forced to direct dismissal from the labour market of this group of workers, because behind each small and medium-sized enterprise, behind each business driven by an autonomous are thousands of families who are suffering in the first person the economic effects resulting from this health crisis. Therefore, the Government prioritized all actions aimed at this group, from the first rule adopted by the Council of Ministers, which helped citizens to cope with this crisis, to measures that made the situation of businesses and self-employed less difficult. I would say that never before has a Government made such a direct, extensive and resourceful bet for a collective. And, ladies and gentlemen, as Minister of Finance, I can understand that nothing is ever going to seem enough to us, especially when there is still a part of companies, of entrepreneurs, that is really having a bad time, but that cannot and must not detract from the effort being made by the Executive to find not only resources but also legal avenues to respond to these demands. Having said that, the measures adopted by the Government have, to date, meant, on the one hand, greater flexibility in the labour market - those affected by COVID-19 will be able to adjust their staffing by accommodating these reinforced ERTs which grant rights to those who did not have them, primarily to temporary workers - and, on the other hand, an extension of the time limits for the duration of temporary contracts. We've put in resources to guarantee liquidity. They know that both autonomous and SMEs are accessing loans on favourable terms, those guaranteed by the ICO, and that they face their payment commitments through this route - up to 80% of the State's guarantee for these groups when they request this type of credit -. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, measures have been adopted to facilitate the moratorium on the payment of mortgages and the adjustment of expenditure on communication, electricity and gas. In fact, this electric social bonus has been extended to self-employed persons who have ceased their activity or who have reduced their income by more than 75%. Fourthly, ladies and gentlemen, this collective will also be able to suspend electricity and gas bills and pay them six months after the state of alarm is over. Our estimate is that you can benefit around a million businesses and self-employed people. Fifthly, we have put in place an extraordinary benefit in case of cessation of activity, including groups that have a very high degree of seasonality. Even the self-employed beneficiaries of this benefit are exempt from paying the monthly social security contribution. And, sixthly, we have also approved for this same group a postponement in the payment of rent during the state of alarm and until four months later, a measure that will apply when the owner of the property is a public entity or a large holder. It is estimated that 150 000 commercial properties and more than 70 000 hotels will benefit from a measure, which, as an indication, has no previous reference. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the balance sheet that we can make with the latest available data indicates that 1 154 000 self-employed people have already applied for the extraordinary termination benefit, of which 1 039 000 have been granted until 24 April and more than 919 000 have already been paid, for an amount of EUR 671 million. Still, we continue to look for the path, the path that facilitates this day to day until we return to the new normality or to the complete normality when we have at our disposal vaccines or therapeutic treatments. For example, we continue to work to allow them to postpone the payment of their tax returns or to delay the payment of the social security contribution. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, this rule which I am presenting in this House today and which I am subject to its validation sets out precisely the extensions and measures that benefit, which give me the most important tax deferral measures in our democratic history, if I may say so, to SMEs and self-employed in the tax field. It is a question of more than 3.4 million SMEs and self-employed people being able to postpone all - I insist, all - the tax returns of April. We are talking about an important injection of liquidity for this group, which amounts to around €3.5 billion that will not enter the era now, an amount that companies will be able to count on to deal with this situation and, therefore, to alleviate the effects that this pandemic is undoubtedly having. I believe that this expression, this decree-law speaks to the clear that we are a sensitive government with our productive sector, but also with the tax managers and advisors who are helping in these weeks that are complicated for SMEs and autonomous so that these people can devote themselves to the exercise of productive activity and to the return to normality in their businesses. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if you validate this rule, you will be making it possible for SMEs and self-employed people with a turnover of up to EUR 600 000 to have until 20 May to submit the declarations for this month. Thus, the deadline of 20 April for submitting the quarterly VAT return, the split payment of the IRPF and company tax is also extended until 20 May, and in the case of declarations domiciled the deadline ranges from 15 April to an extension until 15 May. Therefore, in addition to delaying the date for submitting and entering these tax returns, I remind you that we already approved at the beginning of the emergency, as I mentioned at the beginning of my intervention, that they may postpone this tax payment for a period of six months, three months without any interest rate. In particular, we have established the possibility of postponing up to EUR 30 000 both for six months and, I insist, three months without interest, and 98.8% of the self-employed, i.e. almost 99%, are within this measure, because their declaration is below the threshold of EUR 30 000. Similarly, 94% of SMEs will also be under this umbrella, under this postponement, and with this further expansion of self-liquidation will not have to enter until October, November, near the end of the year. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that the vast majority - I insist, 99% of self-employed and 94% of SMEs - have the option of postponing their entire tax debt without paying interest for the first three months, a measure that is helping the treasury of many of these groups. I can tell you that until yesterday 400 000 taxpayers have submitted 626 000 requests for postponement, which means that we have already postponed EUR 2334 million, an important amount that will certainly help to protect our productive fabric. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the benefits of implementing this royal decree-law. These are measures that will make it easier for this group to face the situation we are experiencing, because what is clear is that this country will not be able to recover and, above all, will not be able to do so with the vigour it needs if its business sector does not do so. Adopting measures in this regard is not just a political issue; it is a responsibility as a Government to the future and the recovery of our economy. We continue to improve and adapt this government decision-making to this daily reality of our businesses and our self-employed. In fact, last week the Council of Ministers approved a battery with more than thirty measures aimed mainly at SMEs and self-employed people. To the postponement of the six-month tax payment, with three failings in the tax moratorium to extend the filing of tax returns, in addition to the split corporate or IRPF payments until 20 May and to the credit lines endorsed by the ICO up to 100 billion, largely intended for SMEs and self-employed persons, the fact is added that SMEs will be able to change the system of calculation of the split corporate tax payment and that self-employed persons will also be able to move from the module system to the direct estimate, both of which will entail additional savings of EUR 1 billion, estimated at around 425 billion the companies that will benefit from it. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there is a tax reduction for those who tax in modules, with the calculation of the VAT and IRPF split payments for the days that the state of alarm lasts. With the implementation of this measure €30 million will be saved in the first quarter, affecting 362,000 taxpayers in IRPF payments and another 200 000 in VAT payments. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, these exceptional measures taken by the Government to deal with COVID-19 for self-employed and micro-enterprises are a key part of the recently approved emergency aid package and are the biggest aid in Spain's history for this group of workers. I have therefore transferred to them the importance of this rule being validated, in order to benefit those vulnerable groups in the face of the economic effects of the crisis because of the paralysis of productive activity or the decline of productive activity. For this reason, I appeal to your validation and therefore to your responsibility. I finish, but before I do, I want to give you a thought, because we have to think about the next day, when it happens, let's hope that soon, this pandemic. They know that the President of the Government has proposed to reach an agreement for the social and economic reconstruction of Spain, an agreement in which all the political forces that have not been excluded must participate, but also the economic and social forces of the country, together with autonomous communities and municipalities. It is about finding the greatest possible consensus among all to formulate a realistic plan of measures to help rebuild our economy, with which we can reactivate our growth levels and guarantee citizens the best public services, thus consolidating our public welfare system in the worst of situations. No one can and should stay behind. That is why it must be clear that we are fighting a global crisis that does not understand territory. We are doing so from the point of view of responsibility, and in that spirit of responsibility we hope to overcome the situation by emerging strengthened as a country from the consequences of this very serious health crisis. And we're all needed to get it, our productive fabric too. That is why it is important for this House today to validate the rule that I have defended, because rebuilding the economy, balancing our growth depends first of all on our SMEs and our self-employed being able to regain their strength, to be able to boost their production. I assure you that this Government with this rule, with all the measures contained therein, which are in addition to those already approved by this House, intends to help make this possible in this recovery. We trust in this and look forward to your vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u189	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Mr Martínez Oblanca intervenes in the position-setting exercise by the Joint Parliamentary Group in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u190	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Minister of Finance. I will support with my vote the validation of this royal decree-law extending the deadline for the filing and entry of certain tax declarations and self-liquidations, as you have just explained. It is more than reasonable to have an exceptional and urgent regulation of these characteristics in view of the seven-week prolongation of the health emergency situation, given the extension of the coronavirus infection which has made necessary measures for its containment by declaring the state of alarm and successive extensions. These are essential measures to provide a wider scope for temporary manoeuvre to taxpayers who have many difficulties in carrying out operations as a result of the current situation, which is widespread, but is particularly focused on self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as their tax advisers. Undoubtedly, we are all overwhelmed by the impact of COVID-19, but the extension of the deadline to comply with tax obligations is an unquestionable need, which is reflected in the single article of this regulation. I do not want to overlook this matter, Minister of Finance, in order to ask the Government for additional and exceptional fiscal measures that are proactive and allow public administrations to facilitate the development of economic activity, to take initiatives that prevent the destruction of the productive fabric, which, as we have seen in the various official indicators, is already occurring on a large scale, and which also provide confidence for economic reaction and job creation, a historic priority for the Spaniards, which will be with greater emphasis if we can overcome the health emergency situation. In fact, data from the labour force survey published yesterday by the National Statistical Institute, being very nuanced, are already being shot at 3,313,000 unemployed after the first impact of COVID-19. No one escapes that successive EPAs will be much worse, unfortunately. As a result, we have an obligation to find solutions to mitigate the coming labour dramas. In any case, I urge the Government to promote or support measures such as those on behalf of the Forum that I had the opportunity to register with this Congress of Deputies to equip the municipalities with the capacity to establish bonuses in the IBI for companies, SMEs, self-employed, trade, primary sector and entrepreneurs who have already seen their activities affected by the crisis of the coronavirus. Legislative changes are urgently needed to enable the application of tax ordinances to regulate a bonus of up to 90 % of the full share of property tax. Finally, Minister, the Government cannot delay for longer the release of EUR 28 billion to the autonomous communities, which need resources for their obligations in the course of this tragedy and which also need to become the main driving force behind the objectives of economic recovery and job creation in order to overcome the devastating effects on the economic and social order that are already coming after this pandemic. I conclude, Madam President, by expressing my support for validation. I ask you, Minister, to speed up the adoption of broader economic recovery measures, in which fiscal policy has to become a lever of support for our autonomous and SMEs, and not the definitive point. You used to appeal the day after. For that day, no tax rebates are lost. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u191	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] Thank you very much. The President-in-Office of the Council has the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u192	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is one of the tax legislation decrees that we consider necessary and that is why today we will vote in favour of its validation. However, I must say that this decree seems to us to be clearly better. This series of measures that we are taking from such short to long deadlines are introducing some legal uncertainty among citizens. That is why I would like to propose that, instead of making so many rules with such short deadlines, they should do a bigger one, and an example is that which has been approved in Cantabria, where the deadline for what the state of alarm lasts and one more month, with which, people already have that security, and not having to be with such short deadlines and then making extensions. In order not to harm and completely collapse the collection, I would also like to propose that you consider how to encourage taxpayers who can meet the deadlines, so that they do not try to accept the moratorium. That incentive could be interesting, and it would be very good if you could do some testing, because, clearly, the final collection is going to be altered, we are all aware that these measures are not going to solve the problem. The deadlines will be over, we will continue to have situations that will require more short-term measures and that is where, in fact, it is most necessary to have for the future that pact of State as broad as possible, something that could perhaps be undertaken to lay the foundations of the tax reform that everyone is talking about in this House, which was integral and on which there was a common minimum denominator to continue. When this pandemic ends the problem will be in another way, no longer of a procedural nature because of the impossibility of presenting it because of the confinement, which is how you are often justifying it in the preambles, but of an economic nature, because the financial situation will prevent people from paying, because it will not have money. It would be desirable for this reconstruction commission to consider the possibility of reaching an agreement, with collectional concepts that were agreed upon and formed the basis for that future comprehensive reform, that there should be a situation in which each political party could use its political objectives not to turn around the laws, but, in cases of alternation, by modifying quotas, rates and deductions, so that citizens would have such legal certainty as to always understand what the tax system is. Hence, indeed, the need for such a state pact. Last week I heard Mr. Casado saying to Mr. Sánchez: I only care about the Spaniards, and you only care about power. Well, I think that too Mr Sánchez could have told Mr Casado, because it seems that the People's Party is currently waiting for this pandemic to be taken forward to this government, to enter them. Anyway, I think in a few weeks you'll see very well who this phrase was best for, which one of you was really sincere. They should be reminded that the Spaniards are not fools and in the end they pass the bill. We have already seen in the last parliamentary term an exercise of monumental political irresponsibility and what has been the result in the ballot box, which can be seen precisely in this House. I would like to conclude by recognizing also many officials who, despite the interruption of the deadlines, continue to work exemplaryly from their home, continuing with this form that the majority of Spaniards are also following. I think we can only be Members of this House. And, Minister, as you have an appearance tomorrow, I will already put to you some concrete measure for Cantabria that you have quite late, and I think it will be a good opportunity, in addition to dealing with the issue of local entities, which also deserves some more time than I have now from this rostrum.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u194	Thank you, President. We are going to vote in favour of the royal decree-law that brings us to validation today because we understand that it will be able to give oxygen to the self-employed and SMEs and because companies cannot be required to fulfil obligations under rules that are designed and planned for a normal situation, when we are in a situation of exceptionality. It is a measure which has already been requested by many associations of self-employed entrepreneurs, SMEs and advisers and which delays the payment of certain taxes for a month, such as the quarterly VAT return, the split payment of corporate tax and the IRPF; a measure which, as you have also said, is in addition to the postponements which were approved at the beginning of the state of alarm which allowed self-employed and SMEs with a certain volume of transactions to delay the payment of declarations and settlements, six-month postponements in which, in our view, they should consider the non-application of interest on delay. This decree, as I said, postpones in one month the presentation of the payment of VAT and IRPF and of the tax on companies that SMEs and self-employed companies with less than 600 000 euros of volume of operations had to pay on April 20, and, paradoxically, on the same day as the publication of the decree, that is, on April 15 in case of domicile. Of course, minister, perhaps it has been a measure somewhat in extremis, but welcome be. According to you, tax deferral is an injection of liquidity for companies, and it is, but only for a month, a small breath, and not for all, because of the existing limitation on the volume of transactions and because companies that are part of a business group and apply the special tax consolidation regime, regardless of the volume of turnover they have. We understand that revenue is needed to cope with public spending, but we are in a situation of extraordinary and great uncertainty. In view of the lack or decrease in the activity of the companies and therefore their income, we believe that these moratoriums should be extended if it is best until the liquidation of June. We would like to understand that they could benefit more companies by helping them in their liquidity, but also by preventing a greater negative economic impact on those sectors that are considered most vulnerable in the economy. In this respect, we have not just understood that decisions have been taken in a somewhat staggered way in this area, while others are announced quickly in the media but then they are delayed, and I am referring to the possibility of modifying module taxation with direct estimation, because companies, as the Member of Cantabria has also said before, in a situation of alarm, with great uncertainty, what they need is legal certainty, to know what to stick to in the tax field. It would be better or better agreed that tax measures would have been adopted globally, perhaps in a single package, with longer time frames and a single provision, being aware that they generate treasury tensions in public coffers. But, as I said, we are in an extraordinary situation of paralysis of activity as a result of the COVID-19 and, moreover, it is not a debt forgiveness, a forgiveness, but a moratorium. I do not want to miss the opportunity to draw your attention to another tax area, which affects people, in general, and not businesses and self-employed people. I am referring to the income campaign, because at best it would be desirable - at least if they studied it - to speed up returns, as well as to postpone the final date of the campaign, more than anything because of the difficulties that exist in carrying out the efforts and being able to guarantee the face-to-face attention of those taxpayers who need it or even to facilitate the declaration of income to those people who need tax advisors. Finally, Minister, I would like to say that your Government is constantly talking to us about the need to involve all of us in this situation, and we agree. My party believes that it is doing so and, despite having discrepancies with some of the decrees brought to this House, I believe that we have acted responsibly. Today we will also do the same, although this decree does not affect the CAV or Navarra because of our tax and fiscal specificity. But we believe that we need to be informed of the measures to the political groups, that we do not know by the media, information that their government partner, Podemos, requested when he was in the opposition and that he has perhaps forgotten now. Despite these small nuances, we understand that the decree goes in the right direction, and of course we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u195	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much, Valentina. Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u196	Thank you, President. Gentlemen of the Government, I have to tell you that this decree that you bring us today is between nothing and unambitious, which seeks to compensate for some of the measures that you have adopted in relation to the coronavirus pandemic. You have fashioned the self-amendment this season, making it, unfortunately, the modus operandi of this crisis. I'm sorry to tell you that this decree serves to demonstrate that your road map is based on the improvisation and zigzag of your corrections, improvisation that we saw yesterday in its maximum splendour when the enormous expectation generated by your so-called descalation plan deflated as a souffle does. Not only have they been unable to set a calendar with specific dates, but they have allowed the intention to maintain the state of alarm indefinitely. Moreover, as has been sadly commonplace, the opposition has been informed by the press. We were announced yesterday a plan of decontainment without consensus with anyone, not even with the social agents, and which is lost in several phases, full of conditions that only added more uncertainty to the uncertainty that already exists. Here the only phases that are clear and that the Government is constantly fulfilling are three: denial, improvisation and rectification; denial, improvisation and rectification that you are following over and over again when the most urgent need is for this country to save lives and to save jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, all of Spain knows what we in Citizens think of Mr Sánchez and that we are in the ideological antipodes of his partners in Podemos. That is why many Spaniards could understand that if you are committed to making mistakes, making deaf ears and crashing into reality, we would say, "Hey, there you are, because it is your problem. But you know what? That's not your problem. And it is not, because if the government persists in addressing the precipice, behind goes Spain and the Spaniards - and that Citizens, being a state party, cannot allow it -. Our moral obligation is to hold our shoulders, and it is for what they pay us, so that we can save lives and save jobs, always putting Spain's interests ahead of those of our party. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I repeat this again: we again extend our hand to you to make the most necessary correction to you together and more necessary is also for the Spaniards, which is the rectification of the course, correcting the course. Three weeks ago Mrs Arrimadas proposed reconstruction pacts to straighten that course and move as quickly as possible in the right direction. We have been waiting for these reconstruction pacts for three weeks; they should be in place now, but the government and - I am sorry to say - the PP gentlemen should not be very interested in this. We need unity, if the virus does not understand ideologies, solutions should not do so either. I'm focusing on the royal decree we're dealing with. You recognize in this royal decree-law the serious difficulties that it poses, both for companies and for the advisers, to have to make in this current situation tax declarations, and therefore decide to postpone the presentation of the liquidations one month. A month! Do you think you can order a deferral of tax returns and self-liquidations and do so for a month? Do you really believe, Minister, that companies will have regained normality by 20 May? In addition, this deferral is only for micro- and autonomous SMEs with a volume of operations of less than EUR 600 000. Why do they leave out the vast majority of companies in our country, medium and large companies? Do you have anything against them, something ideological? These measures under the Royal Decree-Law have been requested since the beginning of the confinement, but you approved them days before the deadline: one day before the filing with bank domicile, and just five days before the filing without domicile. Would you like to have approved it one day in advance, when almost all the statements were already made? Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Minister, we have the worst economic storm of the last century, with catastrophic consequences for the autonomous, business and economics of Spanish families. Let yourself be helped, accept the proposals that we are making to you every day. We are holding hands with them, we are supporting them as a State party that we are, but we also call for all necessary measures to be taken with anticipation, now that we are still in time. Citizens will vote in favour of the royal decree-law because it includes, albeit late and unambitiously, as I said before, some of the requests that we have been demanding from our parliamentary group since the beginning of the pandemic. However, we will call for its urgent processing as a bill to amend and extend it to more taxpayers and for longer. We want, ladies and gentlemen, to freeze the entire fiscal calendar for the first half of the year and that all companies, whatever size they are, can benefit from this tax deferral, given that liquidity tensions affect small and large companies alike. We also propose and want those citizens who wish to delay their income declaration until after the summer, to help the municipalities so that they can make the spending rule much more flexible and make use of the entire surplus and at the same time that the municipalities, by amending the Local Finance Regulatory Law, can approve bonuses in the area of taxes that are their own. We need a lot more, Minister. We need a specific tourism plan to support and reinvigorate the tourism and hospitality sector; we need the lines to work at full performance; we need the quota of self-employed people to be increased so that they can access the extra benefit with 40% less income and not with the current 75%, as well as extending the benefit to mutualists, self-employed companies and those who have recently re-incorporated from a drop or paternity permit. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we need a lot of things and we have less and less time. Let's be brave, let's try to live up to the Spaniards. We have an idea that is concrete in a forum that is the pacts of reconstruction, we have to sit down now to make decisions urgently. Citizens have already offered - and I do again here - to unlock the situation with wisdom, moderation and without ideology, but, please, let's sit down now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u197	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u198	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to send a reminder to all the victims of COVID and to all their families; in any case, I encourage everyone. Having said that, Minister, we are going to validate the royal decree-law, although this does not prevent us from being critical; we do not detract from the effort they are making, what happens is that it seems really short, short and late. I remind you that this royal decree-law was published on the same day as the deadline for the filing of domiciled self-liquidations. We - I personally - have been complaining about it since the week following the presentation of the state of alarm. For example, we find it really poor to postpone it simply for a month, because, Minister, I would like you to come up to this rostrum and tell those self-employed people, those small and medium-sized enterprises that did not make your statement on 20 April, how they will have changed their circumstances on 20 May, and also to tell the tax advisers and all the people who are working to deal with this situation; practically nothing at all. I asked him last week, I ask him today, and I will ask him again next week: extend the deadlines, on May 20 it solves nothing. We also ask you to increase the possibility of unsecured tax deferrals not only to EUR 30 000, to increase the amount and also to increase the limit of EUR 6 million invoicing, because it is also absolutely insufficient, minister; insufficient because there is a great deal of casuistic. I want to tell you a case that I was told yesterday: a small company with less than fifteen workers who produce spirit products and pay alcohol taxes, with a turnover of less than EUR 1 million, had to present the postponement of VAT, companies and IRPF - it was just EUR 30 000 - and now, on 20 May, it would have to pay more than EUR 30 000 in excise duties, but it has not received the ICO's approved credit. In that connection, I would like to make a reference: it is not enough for the President of the Government at a press conference yesterday to say that he is following closely the complaints from small and medium-sized enterprises about some financial institutions. I can say that, or an employer can say that, but the President of the Government doesn't have to say that he's following closely, he has to act; I told him last week: act. Some of these financial companies have public capital - you don't have to say the name - and they are raising interests that are not reasonable at the moment; they are proposing operations with a double disbursement: one now and another one by a month, month and a half or two months in which a policy beats you, beats you an operation and with that we will cancel it. That is happening and the President of the Government must act, he must not say that he is following these situations closely. Well, this company has a problem that is how to get to the end of the month, because its income has practically disappeared. This company presented an ERTE - you were referring to force majeure ERTE - a good example of what had to be done. That businessman said to me, 'Do you know what's going on, Ferran? That when the state of alarm is over I will not be able to recover all my income, nor will I be able to start working with all my workers - with the current regulations, if not rectified, the force majeure ERT is over -. And I will also not be able to keep the job for the next six months, because most of my customers, linked to the hospitality, will not have recovered their activity.' To this we have to give a solution, to all those self-employed we have to give a solution, Minister, and we cannot do so at the last moment. It has already been claimed by different spokespersons. At the moment there is a great deal of uncertainty linked to the health crisis. I reminded her last week. The public authorities, and the government in particular, have to provide greater legal certainty and not uncertainty, because when a measure arises one must know whether or not to benefit from it, and not be thinking about whether they are going to rectify it within a week or fifteen days. Honestly, we offer you help. You have called for the economic and social reconstruction pacts and we are going to participate, our spokesman has already told you that there would be no problem in this regard. Now, let them be pacts and not accession contracts: here is this, you all agree and vote. For now, in relation to all these royal decree-laws, we have not made covenants, but accession contracts because we vote for them without being informed beforehand of their intentions. But this has a limit and you must understand it. If there is a will for a real pact, the pact is agreement and dialogue. In any case, Minister, we have many outstanding issues, because you have not reviewed only the royal decree-law. With regard to this decree, I say that we are also going to ask for its processing as a bill to amend some of these issues, although I say to you that some of you have to amend them. For example, 20 May is not enough, extend it, because by 20 May the majority of the self-employed will not have changed any circumstances with respect to 20 April. As I tell you, we have outstanding issues. The President of the Government committed himself to the municipalities so that they could apply the remaining treasury. They haven't approved it this week and they say they'll do it next week. Be generous and not scarred, that the municipalities can freely dispose of all their remaining treasury for what they think is convenient - social spending, spending on economic promotion and helping small and medium-sized enterprises - and eliminate the spending rule for the municipalities by 2020 and 2021. Surely, that will be an engine of economic recovery. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr Rufián Romero has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u200	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that it is a piece of paper to talk after Ferran Bel, especially on these issues, because it does it quite well. I don't like everything he says, but I always like the way he says it. I begin by greeting from here my colleague Joan Capdevila, who would make this speech if I were not confined, as well as my colleague Marta Moreno and Sergi Tarrés, who have prepared this speech. This royal decree has good news and bad news. The good thing is that it extends the deadline for submitting and entering certain tax returns linked to invoicings of less than EUR 600 000 and therefore eases the situation of a significant part of the business fabric, such as SMEs and self-employed people; this is the good one. The bad news is that it is short and late, with quotas already paid in full season for whom in many cases it is both the boss, the doorman, the accountant, the warehouse boy, the carrier and the operator of the company. If there has been an invoicing quarantine, there should also be a tax quarantine. From this crisis we will not get the charity of billionaires with empires with mud feet that to the minimum of change have presented an ERTE; some ERTE that already announce - and it is not the first time that we do - that we will review one by one. From this crisis we will get the runaway who throws his little business behind us every morning and who is holding his lung every day. Faced with the greatest economic hammering in eighty years, if we do not support and guarantee the cash flow of the self-employed and the small and medium-sized businessman, we will simply run out of productive fabric and, consequently, without the economic-social scaffolding on which this system is supposed to be based; a system that even its architects ask today to change. Until this happens, until the system changes, how many measures we take will be nothing more than necessary patches, but patches, after all, including this royal decree-law which is also, from our point of view, insufficient patch. You copy measures taken in other countries in our environment, but they are short. In Italy it was applied to all micro-enterprises and in France to SMEs of up to fifty workers. From our point of view, the criterion cannot be that of billing alone because of its obvious misleading reflection of the real health of a company. Moratoriums should, for example, be applied on the basis of profit margin. There are companies that, in order to survive, even if they are small businesses, have to bill millions due to the narrow margin of their sector. In short, if they want to copy other countries, we ask them to copy well. We believe that we must be imaginative and try to find formulas, beyond postponements and moratoriums. We must be able to show a horizon of hope in which self-employed people and SMEs can recover their activity and, consequently, their income. A post-containment plan and clear instructions on how, when and where to reopen must be established. It's not about going in a hurry, it's about going knowing where and how to go. There is something urgent, emerging and old: ICO loans. In the midst of the liquidity drought of self-employed and SMEs, you announced juicy lines of credit through the ICO, but when self-employed and SMEs go to the bank to ask for them the abuses begin with the obligation to hire insurance and unnecessary bank product packages. We ask you from here to control the bank or the wear and tear will follow. The air they want to give to the self-employed has to reach full to the self-employed. If they allow others to keep it in the way, it will simply be of no use. Your Honor, there's something the self-employed are telling us: the bills are coming, but the aids aren't coming. We reiterate to you again some of the proposals that do not yet provide for help from self-employed people and SMEs. The first is the ex officio postponement of tax obligations from 20 April to 30 September applicable to SMEs and self-employed people, thus avoiding bureaucracy and giving oxygen to such liquidations. The second is the urgent ex officio postponement of the tax period for corporate taxation for SMEs from 27 July to 30 September, that is, the third quarter. The third is the immediate implementation of the so-called digital rate to companies that are seeing exponentially increasing their revenues during the crisis and confinement. I mean, as always, putting a tax on Glovo, Amazon and Deliveroo, for example. And the fourth, given estimates of a fall in GDP of 15 or 20 %, can only be an ambitious and necessary solution: a profound tax reform based on a courageous wealth tax, a courageous financial wealth tax and a courageous financial transaction tax. In short, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we do not ask you to be very left-wing - which would be good - and we ask you to be very brave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u201	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Valentina. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u202	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin by transferring the spirits and strength from here to the Spanish people so that they will continue to resist these hard days that we are going through, the families of those who have lost a person in this trance and those who continue to fight this disease. The measures contained in this royal decree are, like so many others in these strange days, hardly emergency decisions that seek to alleviate a painful situation for many businesses. In this sense, they represent only a small portion of the many decisions that have already been made and are about to be taken in the coming weeks. In this case, it is a matter of extending the filing and entry deadlines for corporate and autonomous tax self-liquidation declarations with a turnover of less than EUR 600 000 in 2019, as has already been said. That is why we trust that this will provide some relief for thousands of small businesses, not only because of the delay in paying taxes itself, but also because these additional deadlines are essential for obtaining or documenting the most transparent and truthful way possible in order to meet the obligations to the Administration. Finally, they are measures that ultimately respond to a certain clamor from the most affected sectors and that convey the clear signal that this Government is listening to, while trying to meet on the move exponentially growing demands within the very narrow margins of what is possible. This doesn't mean it's enough. As much as the Government does in these circumstances, it will never be enough, and surely there is still some room for improvement in the procedures designed to access emergency aid. In the same vein, I trust that the Government is also considering relief measures in the settlement of other taxes - some other rapporteurs have already mentioned this here before me - such as, for example, the possible extension without additional cost of the deadlines set for the payment of tax debts until 31 December 2020, as tax debts contracted until 30 May can now be postponed for a maximum of six months but continue to generate interest on delays from the fourth month of deferral. I also think of the rent campaign - something that has also been mentioned here - that will pass into history as the coronavirus campaign for having started almost at the same time as the pandemic. How many families could now find themselves in difficulties, in serious difficulties that have arisen even to fraction their liquidation at this time. I don't know the figure, Minister, but I assure you that it will be the most vulnerable families who are facing this kind of tension again. That is why it will never be enough for us to do what we can from public institutions. We are aware of the extraordinary difficulties that arise in the management of the General Treasury of the State during these days and of the many pressures to which the Government is subjected and, in particular, its office, Minister. While the slogan of injecting liquidity into our economy is now more than ever a necessity, we do not escape the enormous tension to which this slogan submits to the public accounts that you monitor; tension that will, by the way, be maintained over the next few years in the form of deficit and public debt. This leads me to the debate that is taking place in the high European institutions, a debate that I understand has been overrun by the administration, since it is indeed the Calviño minister who is doing this work, but I continue to insist that the Calviño-Montero axis is more important than ever for this government to function. He said that the outcome of these talks, both in the Council and in the European Commission, will not only mark the conditions for this crisis, but will determine the future of the European project itself. It is a question of answering the two questions which decisively condition these narrow margins as far as possible to which I referred earlier. We are talking not only about the amount of resources to be allocated, but about the formula for realising those resources, because if in the end they are translated into credits, that is, at the end of the day in sovereign debt issued by the different countries, if there is no net transfer of these resources through the way of pooling European debt, the same regional integration project, in our view, will be wounded by death. In this respect, the countries of the north must understand once and for all that there cannot be a single market or a single currency without the European institutions taking on certain fiscal and debt management commitments at the same time. This is simply unsustainable. At this point, it should be remembered that the amount of public funds intended to fund new financing and loan renewal following this crisis in Spain is hardly in an intermediate position, if compared with other countries. There are several sources, but they all agree that we are in an intermediate position; from the sources I have been able to consult, Spain is at 9.1% of GDP, while France and the United Kingdom are at 14% and 15%, respectively, Italy at almost 30% and Germany at 38.6%. However, without a collegial response from Europe, our country will not have enough muscle to sustain this kind of action over time, which will irreparably impact on our indebtedness. That is why, in our view, the immense challenge facing your portfolio, Minister, is not to miss the pace of the many, daily and crucial demands presented to you, as you prepare for the structural reforms that must be undertaken by our Public Finance, reforms that have already been required for years and that now acquire a completely different tone, in the light of the critical events that we are experiencing today. I am talking about the green transition and green taxation, which are still to be developed and which must serve as a real engine for a productive transformation that will help to get out of this jam. I am, of course, referring to autonomous financing, a problem which has long been postponed and whose seams have been about to burst during this crisis. I am also referring to the difficulties of many local corporations in providing social services. Anyway, I mean a lot of things you'll probably have in your head. There is therefore no choice but to work with the three temporal horizons at the same time. I therefore insist that it will be a great challenge to work on the medium and long-term objectives, while not neglecting the short-term objectives. In other words, we must resolve how to prevent short-term objectives from conditioning or hindering medium- and long-term objectives. In any case, I trust that tomorrow, when we appear in the Committee on Finance, we will be able to extend ourselves in this debate, Minister. We also welcome from our group the fact that a chapter on taxation has been incorporated into the objectives set by the recently adopted Non-permanent Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction after COVID-19, because this chapter is key to saving the difficult time we are going through and because it is also time, let us say it at once, for us to have a serious and in-depth debate on fiscal policy with the right-wing parties. Because it is very easy to propose the lowering of tax rates, even the exemption of certain taxes - we have heard it here today profusely - but it is not so easy to reconcile these measures with the strong demands for social policy and economic policy that are now presented and, at the same time, to keep the public deficit under some control.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u203	Mr. Guijarro, you have to finish, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u204	Yes, Madam President, I'm finishing up. Perhaps in this more calm context, that of the Commission, these parties can explain to us what magic formula they know and which escapes us from the other mortals; in short, what new economic doctrine they manage, since the pillars of neoliberalism have collapsed dramatically - Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I see you smiling -, thus leaving many of their leading economists or babble, and that is what I have found in some case, or directly embracing neokeynesian measures, measures which they rejected just a few months ago for anathematizers and which today they have no choice but to recognize. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr González Coello of Portugal has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u206	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to express my thanks to all the Spaniards who are on the front line trying to save lives and for making life easier for those of us who are at home. Secondly, I want to convey my condolences and sorrow to the thousands of Spaniards and their families for their dead, but especially to those who have lost a loved one, a father, a mother, a brother, a son, and have not been able to say goodbye to him; that pain will accompany them all their lives. I've put on my grieving tie to tell you that I'm sorry for myself, especially those friends who have been through this tragedy; I'm very sorry and I thank the president for coming in today of rigorous black. Terrible things have been said here today. We have been accused - our partner - of being miserable and called parasites. Look, if we put on paper physically all the initiatives we have put forward since the state of alarm was declared, they would reach six centimeters above this rostrum; they represent 90% of the initiatives of this House. If we took the rest of the initiatives, it would be two steps from that ladder. These parasites - as Mr. Iglesias said - are currants; they will like it more or less, but we have collapsed, 90% of the initiatives. While the adoption of this measure should be welcomed, one wonders whether it will be effective and whether it is sufficient for the purpose of revitalizing the economy, especially in comparison with those adopted by other jurisdictions in our environment, and the interventions of some of our colleagues are in this direction. Given the quantitative limits, we consider that the measure is aimed at alleviating the organisational difficulties of these small taxpayers, who are not micro-enterprises - micro-enterprises are those who make up less than 2 million euros - are the micro micro of the micro. I think it's a more propagandistic measure than real, but well, it's okay and we support it, Minister. In line with the statement of reasons for the rule, rather than alleviating their economic and financial situation, it helps them to organize with their external advisers. The reality is that this only makes the gallows a little longer and I am convinced that they will have to expand it because, as other rapporteurs have said before, 20 May is not a sufficient date. We, on 18 March, presented a very extensive GNP - here it is - where we collected some of the things that Mr Rufián said, moving them to October and, in others, condoning them, gaining time, because time is fundamental, time is essential; time and credibility, kairós and the Greek cronos, and we are acting, from our point of view, late and bad. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing the biggest economic crisis in our country in times of peace and Mr Sánchez and his Government do not yet have a plan; a plan that has a beginning, that has development and that has an end. I see they're squeamish for a hemorrhage. Indeed, talking about economic policy to refer to government action is absurd; there is nothing like a plan that addresses Spain's economic problems. We are faced with a giant project of economic collectivization and social engineering, in which the government wants to impose an unprecedented economic model in any western democratic country and whose ultimate goal is to turn the Spanish economy into an economy controlled and run by the State. This model is inviable in the medium and long term. An economy like that which aspires to build the communist cabinet only leads to one place, to Venezuela, to the misery of hunger, to human misery and to moral misery, which is real and not from which the Bolivian Communist leader Churches, a partner of his Government, accused us. Perhaps some or many do not care and consider this forecast exaggerated or alarmist; however, it is not. The economy has its laws and failing them all ends up passing a high bill. The final result will be the general impoverishment of Spain, with a marked impact on the middle classes and, in particular, on the Spanish with fewer resources. The Spanish economy is heading towards a very worrying situation, when it has not finished absorbing the consequences of the great recession, and it does so without budgetary fiscal margin to address it thanks to the contrary, wrong and wrong policies of the previous governments and not only of its own, without markets capable of adjusting and with falls in production and employment; the Government continues to charge taxes to the Spaniards, who are the engine of our economy, while preventing them from going to work and pushing them to close their businesses. The government brings to this House a royal decree with only one article, which will surely change, which has already become a tradition in this Executive; and if we talk about continuous rectifications in the BOE, they are also given in its Executive: Mr. Iglesias has denied the Minister more than twice. The government does not stop setting traps for SMEs, and that worries us, Minister. The ICO's endorsements, as has been said, do not arrive or arrive badly; there are many problems. Regarding ERTE, there are a lot of people who are having a lot of problems to be able to apply them and they are not enough. Some 700,000 self-employed persons have closed their businesses by mandate of the Government. The payment of taxes has not been postponed, and when they have done so, as has been repeatedly said today, they have been late. Credibility in the management and credibility in the accounts; without it, you will not be able to go to Europe to ask for anything, and you do not have it in the accounts - it is terrible and shameful what has happened with the data that you have issued - or in the management. Unfortunately, its management of Andalusian accounts is not a good card for Spain or for Europe, and therefore no one believes us and will not help us if we do not do our homework. I encourage you to think about where we can reduce the remaining spending, the inefficient spending, to help the people who need it, and when we go to ask for money they want to give it to us without a higher cost. We have presented you with thousands of extensive, detailed proposals with models, with simulations, but I don't know yours, we don't know the scenarios and we don't know the deficit targets; we don't give us data on the gross domestic product, we lack information. Now we have simplified it - I finish already -, we have moved from large, extensive and detailed proposals, based on simulations to a ten-point plan to see if I understood it and now it is much easier. Pay the payroll and leave. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u207	Thank you very much, Mr González. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Valentina. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Píriz Maya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u208	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. My first words I want them to be a tribute to the 24,275 dead to date by the coronavirus in Spain, broken and truncated lives that we must honor every day. I would like to express my condolences to the relatives that these days besides losing their loved ones have not been able to accompany them as they should and surely as they deserved. Spain has a debt to them, it will always have it. The validation of Royal Decree-Law 14/2020, extending the deadline for filing certain tax returns, is proposed here. Minister, this decree is a clear summary of your management during the crisis, your unfortunate management and that of your Government. The adoption of this decree speaks of its improvisation and contempt for our self-employed and entrepreneurs, because, how if it is not interpreted that it publishes in the Official Gazette of the State on April 15 a measure that allows to postpone tax declarations, declarations that if chosen by the domicile have date of presentation on the same day April 15. Who do you want to fool, Minister? Have you called it acting quickly? Of course, the entrepreneurs and self-employed do not deceive them, entrepreneurs and self-employed people who in full confinement had already prepared, presented and domiciled their statements for days by their managers, who could not be waiting for you any longer, and do so only by extending the deadline for a month when they know that it will not be enough, and along the way they are also left to 19.5 million taxpayers who, without being able to visit their managers, without being able to go to their appointments in the Treasury to make the income declaration, will have to submit their statement these days before their refusal to extend the deadline. In short, they approve an insufficient measure on the same day as the deadline for submitting millions of quarterly tax returns and abandon millions of Spaniards. What do you call this? You have stated these days that this decree was a measure intended to inject liquidity into companies. Inject liquidity, you say? Does the postponement of tax returns in this situation inject liquidity or inject decency? It is a fair measure, it is a decent measure, because the small entrepreneurs and self-employed who are, like all Spaniards, confined in their homes are not having activity. Is it so hard for you to understand about zero income, zero expenses? Did they plan to pay their advertising commitments by ruining millions of Spaniards? Injects liquidity, says the Government. Like ICO credits, which are also not coming as they have to reach the small entrepreneurs of this country? Or are you talking about the cessation benefit for self-employed people who have not yet paid many of the more than one million applicants? Minister, you have referred these days to the measures of your ministry as ambitious measures. Ambitious? Which ones? That there are still self-employed people who have received a text saying that they have received the share of self-employed people of the month without generating many or a single euro? Is that ambitious? I think that's indecent. Germany has already approved aid equivalent to 6% of GDP, with 25 % to be added to guarantees; France has so far increased its budget by an amount equivalent to 4.5%; Austria, to 7; the United States, to 10. Here, by removing the guarantees, what are we talking about? 1.5%? Is that your ambitious plan? Is this the muscle you talked about here today? In almost two months of state of alarm it has been impossible for them to become aware of the dimension of the problem and they are still unable to estimate it. Since that unsignificant impact that, according to Calviño, would have the crisis in Spain has not even passed sixty days, but they have not yet learned of the problem that they are facing and continue to act late and badly, in an improvised and totally towing way from the rest of the countries in our environment. When you told us before that the crisis does not understand territories, I, who live 30 kilometres from Portugal, would tell you that if you do not understand territories, you understand governments that know how to manage. They have not yet understood the impact on employment and on our business fabric that this crisis will have and that it is our self-employed and entrepreneurs who demand measures not to drown, to get alive at the end of decontainment and to have some option to survive. And in the midst of this tsunami, is this an ambitious measure for you? Is this all that the Spaniards of your government can expect? I give you a quick summary of your ambitious measures; yes, Minister. You promised unlimited liquidity that does not arrive; you eased the conditions of the ERTE to companies, assuming part of the contributions, and then changed the conditions of the ERTE and limited them to the alarm period; and when everything was overrun you tried to avoid new ERTE and demanded that companies assume the cost of their workers, even if they did not work with the so-called'remunerated permits', and banned dismissals. The result is: closed companies, without producing or entering, but assuming all the costs, which will lead to the disappearance of many of them. Is this the social-communist model you want to implement, Minister? Mrs. Montero, you've also talked about not leaving anyone behind, it's your sentence these weeks. These decrees don't leave anyone behind? Do I list them? His economic decrees leave many people behind, his management of the crisis leaves an entire country behind. You can't talk about not leaving anyone behind, you have no moral legitimacy, or, if not, remind the 5.3 million Spaniards who left behind in 2011 or the 170,000 companies that closed in 2011 in Spain; tell the pensioners, the ones who froze the pensions, or the officials, to whom they lowered the salary. Do you really think anyone believes them when they talk? It's impossible that they don't leave anyone behind because they don't directly look back, they don't look at their citizens. They do not see how our self-employed or our entrepreneurs are suffering, how hundreds of thousands, if not more than a million, of Spaniards have run out of work these weeks and how these decrees do not help them. Madam Minister, you speak of a social shield in your speeches and I really do not know what you mean. I don't understand that term in their mouths. They say that for the masks and the Fake tests? The real social shield these weeks has not been a government without a known plan and full of improvisation; the social shield of our country is being our heroes in hospitals and those who have made us fill our refrigerators at all stages of the value chain or those who have protected us. The social shield has not been you; the social shield is the 4131 mayors of this country who are leaving their skins to solve the problems of their neighbors, the problems of day to day, who are the ones they solve and who make them a real social shield. Mrs Montero, Spain needs a government and a road map; Spain needs to believe in its rulers, it needs to believe that they will be able to lead us to a better future, but it also needs certainty, it needs security, it needs confidence, which is quite the opposite of what you and your colleagues are bringing you. With all due respect, Mrs Montero, the Spaniards want to be able to trust your Government and your Minister of Finance and do not, because you have lost all credibility. Minister, this crisis requires forgetting about the market and focusing on management; this crisis requires making decisions, it requires being brave; it is no longer going to be worth populist recipes, it now has to lower the ball and play it, but that has to be done, it has to be able to govern, and I fear that the government of which you are spokesman has already squandered its credibility, if ever had it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Píriz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u210	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join in the words with which this House has begun, words of sympathy to the relatives of the deceased, as well as our desire for early recovery to all the sick, to whom we wish to convey a great deal of encouragement. I would also like to start by particularly noting the public recognition of our group's courageous, committed and exemplary response by the majority of citizens to the containment measures that they are serving to prevent the collapse of our health system, measures that prioritize health protection, but which at the same time generate collateral effects on the economic and social situation of many people. This justifies that the Government, in order to deal with this global pandemic and its effects, has, from the outset, been adopting not only health measures but also measures of labour, economic and social protection, as the Minister has also recalled in her intervention, and the actual decree-law that we validate today in the tax field is another example in this regard. In particular, voluntary compliance with the tax obligations of SMEs and self-employed is facilitated in the face of a new reality. To this end, as has been said, the deadline for the submission of declarations ending on 20 April for the quarterly VAT declaration, that of the split payment, of companies and IRPF is extended by one month. With this royal decree-law, the Government again responds to the consequences of the crisis with rigour to the circumstances and according to the moment of the evolution of a crisis that is constantly changing. Why am I saying this? Because it seems that the people have not just understood this, but the government did act in advance when two days before the state of alarm was declared on 12 March, 12 March!, in the Council of Ministers it was already adopting the possibility of deferring the payment of taxes for a period of six months, with three months without paying interest of delay, which for practical purposes allowed delaying the payment of the taxes subject to the rule that is validated today until October, facilitating the injection or the possibility of injection of liquidity to the system, because what really injects liquidity, what really avoids tensions in the companies is precisely that postponement of payment, which was decided, as I say, on 12 March. At that time, the state of alarm had not yet been declared, so that the temporary scope of the mobility limitations that were established subsequently was not approved, limitations that had arisen for the enterprises and that were then maintained by several extensions of the state of alarm that, accompanied by an unequal level of digitization in the enterprises and a difficult network connection in the more rural territories, is what justifies the possibility of postponement of the presentation of the declarations that is reflected in the subsequent norm that we today precisely validate. What I want to make clear is that one thing is the presentation of the declaration and another is the possibility of postponing the payment, and the postponing of the payment was already done at that time. This additional month for the presentation of the statement is also that, in the event that it takes another month, it will be postponed for yet another month, and that is what the minister explained, which could even be reached the end of the year. Therefore, it is no improvisation, it is a decision: analyses are made, decisions are heard and decisions are made according to the circumstances. And forgive me, we would do a little favor to the business image of our country if at that time, before there were any mobility problems, we thought that companies could not make those declarations. A posteriori, yes, but at that time obviously not. Moreover, our country is very advanced, listening the other day that we have even advanced in teleworking five years, has accelerated the digital transformation very much. In any case, knowing these problems, decision, analysis, adaptation and response, which is what this Government is doing. Mr Bel raised doubts as to the amount of the debt to be deferred. The amount of debt to be deferred or the setting of the type of taxpayer is adjusted to the size of the taxpayer and therefore to its initial vulnerability to the crisis. Socialists are well aware that these are very difficult times. The temporary closure of many companies has directly and indirectly affected many others, especially certain sectors. If the current situation were to be maintained, the economic consequences on these could leave other taxpayers vulnerable, but this will depend on the evolution of the crisis, the speed with which the descalation and the adaptation of these economic sectors to a new normal situation within the extraordinary situation that we now face with hope with the descalation plan presented yesterday by the President of the Government and agreed with the Autonomous Communities. I am aware that the Government continues to follow the situation closely in a resilient manner, providing solutions to the problems identified. What do you want me to say to you, Mr Píriz, a little bit of restraint in the criticisms, because constructive criticisms are always welcome for us because they enrich the debate, but what you have told us here today, of course, is anything but a constructive criticism. Does our credibility really question the spokesman of a party that, in the midst of the crisis, nothing more and nothing less than raising VAT to all citizens and at the same time carrying out an indecent tax amnesty to a few? Containment, containment! [[Applauds]] These are very difficult times, there are people going through very difficult times, but demagogic not, please, and constructive criticisms, that people are looking at us on the street. Uncertainty is therefore not generating it by the Government, it is being generated by those who do not stop raising doubts. If there are problems, very well, they are said, analyzed and solutions are sought. They say other countries have done much better. They also have a much bigger tax mattress than ours. They speak of France; France has a tax collection thirteen points above that of Spain. Therefore, it is good to demagogue with taxes as well. They say they have presented many initiatives. The reality is that I have only seen tax suppression initiatives in the Finance Committee. Not all taxpayers face the same difficulties in meeting their tax obligations. What is really important when a fiscal policy measure is implemented is to do so in progressive terms. What we are talking about here is that we talk about fair taxation. Tax rebates that were made and that are a recipe of the past have shown that, if not applied, they could have avoided many cuts in health. That is the lesson we need to learn, because precisely now, in the midst of the pandemic, it is when the importance of these taxes is demonstrated as a contribution to strengthening public services. I'm done, President. Ladies and gentlemen, given the scale of the crisis, we cannot save money to save lives and there is no better show of solidarity than paying taxes according to our economic capacity. Without a doubt, the best way out of the crisis will depend on the just individual and collective contribution that we all make. Faced with the difficulties, it is true that the assistance of the various Governments never seems sufficient. The titanic effort...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u211	Mrs. Blanquer, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u212	Yes, I just wanted to say that the titanic effort that many people make can never be compensated, but what is also true is that never has a Spanish government managed to give such a strong response to the most vulnerable, as they are giving. This is not the time for reproaches, ladies and gentlemen, but for the shoulder to be fixed. Today we have the opportunity to do so and I also hope that we will do so unanimously by voting in favour of this royal decree-law. I trust they will. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u213	Thank you very much. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're all here. We have started the voting. Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 12/2020 of 31 March on urgent measures for the protection and assistance of victims of gender-based violence. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 45 plus 305 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 26 plus 183 telematics votes, 209; against, 9 plus 44 telematics votes, 53; abstentions, 10 plus 78 telematics votes, 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u215	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 45 plus 305 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 22 plus 150 telematics votes, 172; against, 20 plus 149 telematics votes, 169; abstentions, 3 plus 6 telematics votes, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u216	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 14/2020, OF 14 APRIL, EXTENDING THE TERM FOR THE PRESENTATION AND REVENUE OF DETERMINED TRIBUTARY DECLARATIONS AND AUTOLIQUIDATION. [[File number 130/000015]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u217	Royal Decree-Law 14/2020 of 14 April, extending the time limit for the filing and entry of certain tax declarations and self-liquidation. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 45 plus 305 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 43 plus 299 telematics votes, 342; abstentions, 2 plus 6 telematics votes, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u218	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 44 plus 305 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 12 plus 76 telematics votes, 88; against, 29 plus 223 telematics votes, 252; abstentions, 3 plus 6 telematics votes, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-29-CD200429.u219	Therefore, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. The meeting rose. It was four and five minutes in the afternoon.
