ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. We begin with the agenda item for the debate on the whole of the climate change and energy transition bill. [[Rumors.]] For the introduction of the bill I will give the floor to a member of the Government, but first I ask you, please, to take your seats and keep a little silence. [[Pause.]] The fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge have the floor on behalf of the Government for the introduction of the bill. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, a little silence, the sitting begins. [[Pause.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u2	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. By chance, today, July 14, coinciding with the anniversary of the taking of the Bastille, an essential milestone of the French Revolution, considered the beginning of the Modern State, the triumph of the Enlightenment and the Republican principles of freedom, equality and fraternity, is the date on which this House raises the full debate on the law of climate change and energy transition. It is a law that aims to transform our economy and society in an important way, to lay the foundations for a more just and inclusive future, a better use of resources, taking into account the best knowledge, warnings and recommendations of illustrated science. We want more freedom to innovate on the basis of knowledge; we want more equality, equal opportunities and access to environmental benefits; we want more fraternity, that third republican principle that is often forgotten. Fraternity, solidarity between generations and between those who share the present time, a non-cruel revolution that must allow us to lay the foundations for the Spain of the twenty-first century that the citizens ask, for justice between generations, to act according to the sciences and to promote an industrial revolution that allows us to lead production and employment within the environmental limits. Although fortunately, they are a minority, there are still those in our country who do not listen to science, who for decades have known and warned about the causes and consequences of climate change and whose conclusions are increasing and confirming with the passage of time and the continuous finding of factual evidence. It is surprising that citizens, whether young people on the streets or organised civil society, trade unions, who have been explaining opportunities for creating green jobs, or international consensus, are not listening either, but it is perhaps particularly striking that they also show deaf ears to industry, investors, businesses, the productive fabric of this country, from the third energy sector to the automotive industry, which see in electrification, efficiency, digitalisation the keys to sustainability in the time of each of their sectors; the primary sector or the tourism sector, which in the first line of the coast, depending on water and time, is already suffering from changes in climate change. No, ladies and gentlemen, there is no climate alarmism or a new religion, as the parliamentary group that has convened this debate points out in the introduction to its amendment. It is pure physics and chemistry, alien to ideologies and religions. No, ladies and gentlemen, the IPCC forecasts are neither alarmist nor denied over and over again by reality, as you say. On the contrary, they are unfortunately confirmed by the facts and the change of weather patterns settled in time. On the contrary, quite the contrary, the question of national survival is not to reject this law, but to take the climate threat seriously, more at a critical time for our country in which we are discussing together what model we want, what we need to carry forward, what we need to adapt to be more resilient to emerging risks. The recovery phase we are in represents a propitious moment for a change of course and the next decade is key to the transition. The Government brings to the House a project that responds to the warnings of science and to the demands of society; a very participatory, solid, comprehensive, fair and balanced project; a bill that offers an institutional response consistent with the challenge posed by the climate emergency and with the aim of achieving emission neutrality in Spain no later than 2050, as we have committed ourselves to Europe and the world. You, ladies and gentlemen, are called to improve it, to strengthen it, but you are confused if you think it is patriotic to reject it or, as you point out in your amendment to the whole, to return this law is a matter of national survival. We cannot ignore the warnings of science; on the contrary, we must integrate them into decision-making in a timely and effective manner. We cannot shut down decisions that affect our health and well-being from those that affect the environment. We cannot be defeated by short-term options that ignore environmental costs and compromise our future capital. Anticipation, based on scientific knowledge, and the application of the precautionary principle must be our response to the uncertainties and challenges we face. Therefore, we want to bet on a change in the productive, energy and consumption model that strengthens the industrial and business fabric, generates decent employment and reduces inequalities, allows us to live in more habitable, safe and healthy cities, empowers and recognizes the value of sustainable rural development, protects biodiversity, our ecosystems and our health; they are compatible and complementary objectives. The text presented today by the Government puts on the table principles and concrete solutions that show how the action of State institutions can have a real transformative role for society in the short, medium and long term. Betting on climate action is betting on our economy and social progress. The commitment to the environment is aimed precisely at preventing society and businesses from unabated costs arising from environmental degradation and the impacts of climate change. Different economic actors, companies, international bodies such as the OECD, the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, the International Energy Agency or the World Economic Forum stress the imperative of a green and inclusive economic recovery; the proposals of the European Commission and the European Central Bank are working in this direction. The European Green Pact becomes the pillar of the recovery strategy for a Europe that is preparing to generate opportunities for the next generation. It is no coincidence that energy and climate policies are a clean engine of economic growth. In terms of GDP, value added, wealth generation and employment, all proposed measures and impact projections are positive; it is estimated that two or three of these developments can be returned for each euro invested. Leaving fossil fuels behind and replacing them with renewable energy generates skilled employment and strengthens our business and industrial fabric both in the production of equipment and services goods and in the energy savings it entails, liberating resources for more innovation, more entrepreneurship, more training and more solidarity. The deployment of renewables will also help to meet the challenges of emptied Spain and the depopulation of rural areas, bringing territorial balance. The proper management of water, soil, coastline, introduction and recovery of value in our economy will preserve its potential and articulate new industrial and service sources for employment and wealth generation. Housing rehabilitation, investment in infrastructure that requires sustainable mobility, ecological restoration and the promotion of ecosystem-based adaptation and recalibration of infrastructure to adapt to new climate scenarios are also sources of economic development and job creation. This law provides a framework for industrial modernization and innovation, a reference for solid infrastructure and, above all, for working together to build a better country. Thanks to the energy transition, thanks to climate action and the expansion of renewables, our economy will be more competitive, reducing energy costs will generate savings for families, increasing disposable income and promoting wealth distribution, while facilitating innovation in industrial processes and services in many sectors. All these investments, as I said, have a powerful multiplier effect on GDP and employment. They're not chimeras. As Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz or economist Nicholas Stern point out, green projects compatible with the fight against climate change create more jobs, generate more short-term return per euro invested and bring greater long-term savings than traditional fiscal stimulus measures, and it is time for Spain to benefit from all the potential this offers. The law, aligned with the objectives of the green pact and the European recovery framework, will help us get out of the crisis, proud to know that we are nurturing the future of young people. They have heard me say repeatedly in this House and in other forums that we must put the future of our young people at the centre of our response to the current crisis and to the systemic crises that generate climate change and the loss of biodiversity, and it is that to a similar conclusion the Banco de España comes, in whose report on intergenerational labour trends in Spain in the last decades, published last May, underlines the disturbing prospects that the lack of adequate response generates for the under thirty-five years. It is our greatest responsibility, to turn events around and offer solvent answers. This commitment to our present and future is reflected in the very purpose of the law: to facilitate the Spanish economy to be emission neutral, to promote the implementation of a model of sustainable development that is resilient to the negative impacts of climate change. The project that I am presenting to you today has different objectives. The first is to establish a predictable framework, to send out a clear signal to induce climate action and to attract investment into the productive economy and the infrastructures and services that welcome us in our daily activity and well-being. To this end, quantified targets are set for both 2050 and 2030, which can only be revised upwards, as proposed by us. Complying with the Paris agreement, the law is set to achieve emission neutrality by 2050. Much sooner our electricity system will have to be 100 percent renewable and much more involved, placing the citizen at the centre and posing interesting technological, innovation and market challenges and opportunities. The law also sets national targets by 2030 of binding compliance consistent with the increased ambition set by the European Union and with the Paris agreement, which requires us to present new revised commitments upwards in this year 2020. In 2030, therefore, we propose that Spain reduce its emissions by at least 20% compared to 1990 levels, which represents slightly more than 33% of current emissions. For this year 35% of the final energy consumption will be renewable, 70% of the energy generated by the country will be renewable, and with this objective, we think, will be activated the deployment of clean energies, which are already the cheapest source today. It is an industry that will act as a lever in recovery and it is important that it does not lose the speed it has been acquiring. Also by 2030 we will have significantly increased our energy efficiency, that is, we will have reduced the amount of energy we need to produce goods and services. The aim is to reduce primary energy consumption by at least 35% thanks to efficiency measures, which are particularly important and have a great social impact when it comes to the building rehabilitation sector, another important vector of stable and future employment generation, as I say, with great advantages from the point of view of social impact. We need to facilitate the survival of industrial and economic sectors by adapting them to new challenges and demands in order to lead international markets for clean technologies, and we are well positioned. Spain has patents on innovations, equipment assets and complete value chains. There is a need to mobilize all available resources for technologies that generate employment and sustained progress over time. Resources need to be led for industrial innovation in materials, in services, in clean energy. This explains why fossil fuels must have a specific treatment in the law, which allows us to leave behind their use. They have contributed enormously to progress for decades, but today we know that their side effects force us to facilitate the entry of alternatives and the progressive exit of their weight into the economy. It won't be overnight, but it's also not responsible to look elsewhere and let it happen alone. The planning of energy and climate policy, facilitating anticipation, the identification of objectives, scenarios; understanding, anticipating and promoting where we are, where we want to be and how we can reach it is the second of the objectives set by the law through the forecasting and regulation of the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan and the decarbonization strategy by 2050, both of which are the tools of the Community framework in which we operate. They will have to collect sectoral objectives and policies and measures to achieve them, ensuring that all sectors of the economy participate and contribute in advance in the process of decarbonisation and resilience of our economy, both the sectors covered by the European trading and emission rights regime, large industries, the electricity sector, and the diffuse sectors: agriculture, forestry, transport, residential, institutional and fluorinated gases. A third extremely important objective is to facilitate the correct identification of the main decarbonisation tools. Here the common recipe in our environment goes through the deployment of renewables, the boost to energy efficiency and sustainable mobility and electrification of end-uses. In the energy part the law contains different elements, many of which we have had to anticipate in Decree-Law 23/2020 that I will present to validation before this plenary tomorrow. It includes the enabling of a new auction framework for renewables that allows us to anticipate and benefit from the reduction of their costs at a time like this. It includes the definition of new figures in the regulation of the electricity sector, such as storage, independent demand aggregator or hybridization; the extension of the National Energy Efficiency Fund until 2030; the promotion of renewable gases, such as biogas, biomethane and hydrogen, key to the decarbonization of industry and an important potential in our country for large renewable hydrogen generators at competitive prices. It also includes enabling the Government to require regulated actors in the energy system, the market operator, the system operator, the carrier and distributors to develop and present decarbonisation strategies within their scope of action. The significance in the economy of these actors does not allow us to run the risk that they have not foreseen, anticipated and prepared sufficiently in advance the evolution they are facing. In the area of energy efficiency, the law also sends out a signal that sets medium-term targets and links the long-term strategy for building renovation, ensuring coherence between the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan and urban rehabilitation. And in promoting sustainable mobility, progress is being made on different lines of work: by 2050 we will have to reach a fleet of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles without direct CO2 emissions; in line with European standards, social demand and technological development, by no later than 2040 the vehicles will have to be zero grams of CO2 per kilometre travelled. Industry in our country must lead the future of sustainable mobility with the necessary support, and not remain anchored in technologies without looking, without evolving in the direction that the regulatory frameworks mark but also the demand that they face. We will have to work in the urban transformation, and the municipalities of more than 50 000 inhabitants, the islands will establish low-emission zones no later than 2023 to facilitate walking, cycling or other means, improving public transport and adapting to what has already become an increasingly frequent and intense reality in European capitals. Urban adaptation to the scene of new normality requires giving more space to pedestrians and cyclists and facilitating safe mobility and coexistence in public space. The deployment of charging infrastructure at certain service stations or on the public road obliges us to establish a minimum of charging points, which is expected to be extended as electric mobility gains market share; to facilitate the detection of charging infrastructure, a national access point is established. Finally, we cannot forget air and sea transport, facilitating its progressive decarbonisation and actions at ports and airports linked to reducing emissions from ships and aircraft when they are moored. The fourth objective is to build climate resilience, how to make a country safer and able to anticipate the risks of climate change. For the first time the law incorporates the need to activate policies to adapt to the climate risks with which we already live. It is such an important area of action as mitigation, such as emission reduction. It is essential to reduce the vulnerability of society and the economy to the impacts of climate change, to territorial vertebration and to social cohesion in our country. The essential elements of the National Climate Change Adaptation Plan are regulated for the first time, such as the identification of objectives and their basic content. Their approval, approval and further development should be made in accordance with the various work programmes that are being agreed in each critical sector. But the most important thing is that it is addressed with a sectoral treatment, identifying some of the key areas, such as hydrological management, coastal, territorial and urban planning, building and infrastructure, agrarian, forestry and, of course, biodiversity conservation. This sectoral treatment ensures the integration of the horizontal adaptation perspective in key areas for economic and social development and in sectors vulnerable to impacts, according to climate projections and scenarios. It also includes elements necessary to strengthen our response, research, development, science, observation, the establishment of a system of indicators of impacts and adaptation to climate change that facilitate the monitoring and evaluation of public policies, as well as their success and impact, and includes the need to draw up regular risk reports on decision-making by public officials who can guide public and private sector investments. What is not measured or known is not improved or managed, and therefore we need to follow up. The fifth objective of the law is to provide a compact view of the social dimension in the transformation policies of our system, solve short-term problems, while preparing professional skills and acquiring knowledge for today's and tomorrow's job demands. On the one hand, we have a fair transition and, on the other, education and training for employment. The project envisages instruments to ensure that the transition leaves no one behind, fair transition strategies or fair transition agreements that determine with all local actors instruments to ensure employability and the generation of new economic opportunities in areas affected by the transformation, as is already the case with the closure of coal mines and thermal power plants. And in education we want to promote the inclusion of environmental education in curricula and training catalogues, relying on training in future jobs, young people having employment opportunities and an improved career, adapted to the demands of society on a regular basis. The sixth objective is to improve the weight of national accounting and the assessment of public and private spending, as well as investment decisions and their compatibility with climate risks, a State administration consistent with new requirements in the development of legislation, taking into account from now on the impact of climate change in terms of mitigation and adaptation in the use of revenues obtained through the auction of allowances, in the evaluation of bids in public procurement or in the search for solutions to international financing and our models of development cooperation. In particular, it is proposed, inter alia, that the percentage of the general budgets of the State contributing to the climate and energy objectives be equivalent to that agreed within the multiannual financial framework of the European Union. It is proposed to review fossil fuel subsidies or also, depending on the risk dimension in each of the private sector's decisions, to facilitate decision makers and business strategies to understand and share information in a transparent manner as to what their exposure to climate risk represents for the financial sector and large companies. To this end, an obligation is introduced to submit an annual report on non-financial reporting obligations, assessing the financial impact of the risks associated with climate change generated by the exposure of its activity, including risks in a context of transition to a sustainable economy and the measures taken to address those risks; nothing new, many other countries in our environment are doing so and we already have an important body of reference in the European and international financial sector. Financial institutions should publish specific decarbonisation targets for their loan and investment portfolio aligned with the Paris Agreement from 2023, an international agreement ratified by this House incorporating the obligation that all financial flows be progressively compatible with the fight against climate change and compliance with climate neutrality and security by 2050. The Banco de España, the CNMV and the Directorate-General for Insurance and Pension Funds will draw up a report on the risk assessment for the Spanish financial system derived from climate change on a regular basis and will send it to their colleagues. The last of the dimensions of this bill aims to improve governance through the establishment of a committee of experts and the promotion of public participation in climate matters; an independent committee responsible for evaluating and making recommendations on energy and climate change policies and measures, including regulations, which will have to prepare an annual report to be submitted to and discussed by the Congress of Deputies with the participation of the Government. In short, with this project we present an institutional framework for coordinated action to facilitate in a predictable way the progressive adaptation of the country's reality to the requirements that regulate climate action. In other words, conditions are laid down to achieve climate neutrality in advance, offering certainty to all public and private actors, facilitating spaces for debate, improvement and periodic updating. I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that Spain complies with this law; it fulfils as a country, increasing its contribution to the fight against climate change, as we committed ourselves to ratifying the Paris Agreement; it fulfils the ambition that Europe has set itself, since we want to be a neutral continent in emissions no later than 2050; it fulfils the international community, facilitating the multilateral response of all countries to ensure that the planet moves as quickly as possible and with the necessary capabilities towards a decarbonized economy, but the most important thing is that it gives answers to the demands of Spanish society, which demands immediate action, without neglecting intergenerational social justice, accompanying the most vulnerable groups in the present and with the gaze placed on future generations, to which we cannot bequeath the mortgage of an unstable climate. We offer a flexible framework, but committed to the generations of today and tomorrow. That is why I ask your ladies and gentlemen to make this proposal yours, to work on it, to improve it and to facilitate its rapid adoption and its validity. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. An amendment to the full refund has been submitted to this bill. For the VOX Group, I have the floor to defend the amendment tabled by Mrs Borrás Pabón. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u4	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we come to this House to discuss the law on climate change and energy transition, an issue of great importance. I will be very clear and the first thing I want to do is to make it clear that from our parliamentary group we fully understand the necessary work to take care of our fields, our oceans, our valleys and mountains, our fauna and flora and our entire natural ecosystem. In VOX we love our country, we love our people and our land, and therefore we think that true environmental conservationism, the protection and care of nature, is defended by policies that help reduce pollution and preserve biodiversity in a responsible, realistic and sensible way. However, you come here today to sell us a packed dogma, a new excuse to impose, in one way or another, your interventionist, liberating and severely impoverishing idea. Besides, they want us to buy the whole package. But our parliamentary group does not buy dogmas of any kind, and less so if these dogmas intend to point out as guilty the Spaniards and serve exclusively the interests of globalist elites to transform, as you have said, radically our economy and even the way of life of the Spaniards. You come here to blame our farmers and livestock, our rural men and our industry for being the cause of climate change. While you are criminalizing the Spanish farmer, the Spanish farmer and the Spanish hunter, while you are turning the target of your attacks on the man in the countryside who gets up every morning to take care of his farm, while you are doing all that, in VOX we are dedicated to remembering the strategic importance of the Spanish primary sector, which, moreover, we have seen clearly during this pandemic. [[Give it up.]] It is evident that global warming exists, no one denies it because it is a fact, an obviousness. We lack our own position on climate issues, and that is why in VOX we want scientists - and not politicians - to have a voice on this issue. Precisely, Madam Minister, as you have said, because we listen to all scientists - but to everyone, and not just to a part of it - we have to say that many scientists have spoken out to denounce that there is no empirical evidence of anthropogenic climate change, that is, caused by man's hand and that CO2 is in fact the basis of all life on earth. The climate has evolved, evolves and will continue to evolve for centuries, because it is changing. For example, under the ice of the Mendenhall glacier in Alaska, broken logs have appeared of what was a forest a thousand years ago, demonstrating evidence of an even warmer period than the present one only a few centuries ago. This is a debate that must continue and it must be the scientists who respond to this situation. However, as you have just said, minister, in this law they intend to impose a radical transformation of the Spanish production model in order to conjure up a supposed threat, whose harmfulness and avoidability are, at least, questionable. I would like to remind you that Spanish CO2 emissions account for only 0.7 % of the world total. If, after impoverishing the Spaniards with our green taxes and condemning our industry, the targets set by this law are met, our impact on the global volume of CO2 emissions would be 0.17%. [[Give it up.]] If we added to this that CO2 accounts for only 15% of the greenhouse effect, we would have mitigated that effect by only 0.025 %. However, this government proposes utopian and pharaonic climate objectives for Spain - so much so that they triple the objectives proposed by the European Union - and tends to convey the idea that here we are greener than anyone else, at any price, taking thousands of jobs and businesses ahead and condemning technologies that could be valuable and competitive. This authoritarian and accelerated transformation will, according to the law itself, require investments of EUR 200 billion over the decade, all at a time when the OECD refers to Spain as the country most likely to be affected by the crisis, by the destruction of employment and the closure of businesses following the COVID crisis. This government's plan obviates the potential impacts of the pandemic. Is this really the best time to impose the acceleration of renewables? To get out of the crisis that we are faced with in this post-COVID scenario, and taking into account the dire predictions of our economy, setting a level of effort higher than the rest of the EU countries can only have a negative impact on the competitiveness of our companies. Emissions reduction could only be achieved if it was undertaken in a coordinated manner by the international community as a whole. However, the world's most CO2-emitting countries, such as the United States, China and India, have no intention of changing their energy policy or slowing down their growth in the interest of climate considerations. Therefore, leading decarbonization, without doing so in a coordinated and global way, is as irrational as it is absurd. The government is constantly talking about a decarbonised green transition, but in the meantime, it is dedicated to buying electricity from coal from other countries, such as Morocco, which, moreover, by not having to pay the corresponding CO2 taxes - which we do have to pay in Spain - can offer energy at competitive prices. [[Applauds]] That is, we put our industry at risk and we destroy jobs by sacrificing ourselves to be greener than anyone else, but you end up buying energy from Morocco. What is the point of reducing CO2 emissions as a country if we then buy from countries that emit the same or higher CO2 levels? Speaking of harnessing the potential of the green pact and the European aid that you also mentioned in your speech, I would like to stress that we have wasted millions of euros on European funds for our mining basins. If we had gradually decarbonised, we would be receiving approximately EUR 1 billion a year, out of the 305 that we currently receive. We have lost 70% of the funds because of this imperative and totalitarian urgency. Its ambitious plan not only implements the crusade against fossil fuels, but also includes the progressive abandonment of nuclear energy; an energy that does not emit CO2, however, which shows that this law does not, in fact, rationally reduce CO2 emissions. Nuclear energy has been defended, precisely, by great references of the ecological movement, such as James Lovelock, the father of Gaia's hypothesis, and various scientific studies, such as MIT, which confirm that nuclear energy is key to achieving the objectives of decarbonization of the economy. The gradual closure of the nuclear sector, which has already been severely penalised - indeed, in recent decades by a heavy fiscal burden that compromises its profitability - would not only leave 30,000 people who work there directly, indirectly or induced - most of them, by the way, in Spain which has been emptied - but would also exacerbate the price of electricity and leave the country without a safe, stable and cheap source of energy. Let us also go back with this law in the energy efficiency that contributes to the cogeneration of the electricity system, besides neglecting the competitiveness needs of our heat-intensive industry, which maintains more than two hundred thousand direct jobs and about five hundred thousand indirect jobs. With their proposal they point to a timetable for the closure of the cogenerations, by not articulating a correct plan of renewal and extension of the useful life, which directly affects thousands of Spaniards and which generates skilled labour in many of the territories of emptied Spain. This approach is totally incompatible with the efficiency policies promoted by the European Union. No realistic country loses its more efficient production and the competitiveness of its industries - no country, except Spain, with this government - especially because, moreover, renewable energy today is not manageable. The only supporting powers we have that are viable, cheap and stable are nuclear and gas, and you intend to carry them. The Climate Change Act and the PNIEC speak incoherently of technological neutrality, but, in fact, you are betting on the authoritarian promotion of renewable energies, reserving them a fixed part of the quota in the energy mix. We understand that the introduction of renewables is very positive, of course, but we also advocate that the various energy sources must be able to compete freely, allowing companies to opt for the most profitable. If renewables are to be promoted, we must articulate policies that encourage investment in R & D+i to increase their efficiency and solve problems of intermittence or storage, but of course not impose them by decree. The same applies to transport mobility, where they also try to impose targets that are not supported by criteria of technological neutrality or cost efficiency. The use of electricity in transport does not represent zero CO2 emissions, neither for the production of electricity they consume, nor for its manufacture, nor for the recycling of batteries. However, in their obsessive ideologization of technology, they decree that the panacea will be the electric motor, even if they pose serious inconveniences, and not only of cost. For example, what are we going to do with electric batteries when they start breaking? Are we sure we can recycle all the tons of highly polluting batteries that are going to involve the massive entry of electric cars? On the other hand, the proposed eradication of the internal combustion engine results in disincentives to investments in emissions savings or biofuels, which will be essential to reduce emissions from other transport sectors that are more difficult to decarbonize, such as aviation or maritime transport. The law, in its obsession with the eradication of fossil fuels, also ignores other technological horizons that would also reduce CO2 without damaging business competitiveness. I am talking to you, for example, about the new CCUS technologies, carbon capture, use and storage, of CO2 capture, a technology that, while still incipient, allows the capture of carbon dioxide for use in the use, for example, of concrete rigging or as a raw material in the production of polyols. This type of procedures that generate profitability are more compatible with the creation of wealth within the framework of decarbonisation than directly vetoing and banning CO2 emissions, but, of course, for that you would have to be listening to me, first of all, and in addition to having to be listening to me you would have to import the generation of wealth, competitiveness and employment in our country. [[applause]] With the new economic situation we are facing, we must demand and use European funds for key issues of our economy, for R & D investments that will help us boost our industry, improve our competitiveness, our businesses and lower energy costs. The price of energy in Spain is more expensive than in the EU average, but not because we are not competitive, but because of the amount of taxes and tolls we pay in it. Similarly, we must take advantage of this aid to drastically improve our interconnection capacity in a system that will increasingly integrate renewable energy - we have an insufficient percentage, because, as you know, we only have 3% of the 15% recommended by Europe - which will also allow us in the future to even export more of our energy surplus to other countries and generate wealth for our country, and I am done. In conclusion, the law of climate change and energy transition breaks with scientific rationality and economic realism, condemning Spain to energy scarcity and impoverishment. In VOX we do distinguish between sensible conservationism and radical ecologicalism that try to impose us, striving to point out culprits instead of seeking solutions. The coronavirus crisis is indeed a real crisis that must put the climate crisis in perspective. This crisis has killed thousands of people and destroyed economies around the world. Therefore, it is necessary to rethink from the foundations this law in the greatest benefit and interest of Spain, and this must be our only and main task. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, some of whom have stood up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Borrás. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Madam Vice President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. With my vote in favour of this amendment to the whole manifesto the Forum's rejection of the bill presented under the green disguise with which Pedro Sánchez and yourself, Mrs Ribera, have been camouflaging since the first moments of their arrival in Moncloa in June 2018, the time in which they anticipated the European Union, even without being constituted the Council of Ministers, a radical change in Spain's energy policy. It has been two years when the energy drift has gradually worsened, from the government's overrun that went ahead and without alternative to a few thousand jobs in the industrial sector, to the perpetuation of a massive process of decarbonisation that hid the desertification of the mining basins and the closure of power-generating thermal power plants, while keeping all Spaniards paying the highest light in the whole of the European Union. [[Give it up.]] Now, during the pandemic, and in a state of great alarm, the government culminated in its particular revolution from eco-lounging to cash-based eco-jets, as evidenced by the changes, placements and relocations in the heads and boards of some well-paid institutions, companies and operators. Calling upon its revolutionary beginning this afternoon, it would be said that this of placing friends must be solidarity fraternity. [[Give it up.]] That, of the main priority of the Spaniards, which is nothing other than job creation, not a word. The government's giving it to us for a decade, and if the forecast fails, it's the coroner's fault. Instead of explaining how this law will help reindustrialize, create business fabric and employment, the Government has dedicated itself to destroying it. A few days ago seven of the fifteen thermal power plants were closed in Spain, two of them in Asturias, with no socio-economic alternative for the regions where they were located. It contrasts with that of Germany, which a month ago opened a 1100 megawatt coal power plant, while it extended the closure of its power plants until 2038. Here we quickly close ours and buy dirty electricity from Moroccan power stations, as the spokesman for VOX rightly pointed out; that is, we send our people to unemployment and encourage employment in other countries. [[Give it up.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government may believe in revolutions like French, but it certainly does not believe in Parliament. In defense of the General Courts and parliamentary activity, I affirm that this bill on climate change and energy transition culminates the government of Sánchez's monumental disregard for the very broad political consensus reached in mid-2018 with the magnificent report prepared by a committee of experts in energy transition; a comprehensive and precise report that you, Mrs Ribera, threw without a look at the trash, simply because you had been commissioned by the government of the People's Party. However, it must be said that this committee was composed of experts proposed by all parliamentary groups in the XII Legislature. Along the way has also remained the paripé of the process of allegations opened in early 2019 regarding the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030, which already signaled the unthinkable measures that threaten our energy sovereignty and strike security of supply, confidence and competitiveness. The Socialist camel also persists in order to avoid the energy cut urgently demanded by the steel sector. More than a year and a half after committing it, Spain continues to have no statute for the electric intensive consumer and the Government is now hiding behind the Council of State to avoid the lack of response to the allegations made, including those made by Forum. While PSOE and Podemos were taking photos of themselves in protest t-shirts and posing in workers' demonstrations, as in the case of Alcoa in Galicia and Asturias, others presented allegations and denounced here in this rostrum with our voice and our vote against the traps and lures extended by the Sánchez government to distract the staff and do nothing to converge the increasingly critical situation of the industry. This bill is a passport to poverty, unemployment and ruin. It is preceded by the colossal fiasco of the Climate Summit, that of the catamaran, here in Madrid: many selfies, too much pose and no agreement. Instead of imitating what other major counterparts in Spain do well, what is relevant to this government is propaganda, even if it involves scorning the policies that are applied in other parts of the world to offer intelligent solutions, generate wealth and create jobs. I'm closing up. I do not have to move away from my land to see the effects of this way of doing politics because such disdain is suffered by the Asturians in the first person with the closure of the mining and now that of the power plants, as well as the government postpones the commissioning of the regasifier of El Musel as a basic and necessary infrastructure to boost the process of gradual decarbonisation and to facilitate the replacement of coal by gas in the generation mix. In short, in the face of such a scenario, what is appropriate, as Mrs Borrás has asked, is the return of the climate change bill with which the government of its communist social coalition starts the house on the roof, taking thousands of jobs ahead before creating innovative alternatives for employment in the industrial and service sectors. Thank you, Madam President. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you, Mrs. Guille. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u8	Pick it up on. Eskerrik asko, president. The greenhouse effect makes life possible. Polar helmets are increasing sea level. The global temperature doesn't rise. CO2 emissions do not increase, they help with reforestation. The Earth's surface is now greener. Global warming is good for saving on heating. All this and much more is said in this amendment, which is the quintessence of the best example of climate neo-negationism, because it has gone from not denying classical and traditional negationism to saying that the phenomenon of climate change does not involve any problem; it has gone on to admit the problem, but attributing it to natural causes, never to human action. From that classic negationism to the present neo-negationism - and this amendment is a clear example of all this - behind that path, underlies the same momentum, and behind the same momentum, there are the same actors: the main producers of fossil fuels. This amendment is a sort of continuous juggling, with some ineffable pearls, such as those I have just read, and even to some extent comical, such as the very recent environmental sensitivity attributed to the left, and others more tearing, yes, such as poverty, gender oppression or racism presented in this amendment as pretexts that the left needs for its postulates. These phenomena have already been overcome - they say - and the climate emergency becomes a new pretext for left-wing driving. Yours, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, is a climate hypocrisy; a serious hypocrisy because you actually know that what you say is not true, which adds gravity to your approach. They say that they leave science to scientists and that they lack their own position on climate issues, even though the act is then considered irrational to assume what most scientists claim. They say that they leave science to scientists, and it is not true that they do so, because they often deny the majority academic consensus by virtue of that maximum that they apply and that it is simply summed up in maintaining the system with all its consequences, whatever these are, it gives them the same. The future of this planet, exhausted and about to collapse by human action, is changeable and manageable, as it is, of course, be its interests. This is nothing scientific, of course. The climate emergency is scientific, and also the work of scientists, of course, but the position of what to face climate change is political. You deny the obvious, question what is already going on, reject what the scientific majority says is going on. For you, the melting of the Arctic and Antarctica is a mirage, just like the more than a thousand glaciers that have disappeared in the last decades. We know very well, because the scientific consensus says so, that the main mechanism involved in climate change and global warming is the greenhouse effect caused mainly by the accumulation of gases in the atmosphere and, in particular, by the accumulation of CO2 since the Industrial Revolution. They could be rebutted from paragraph to paragraph as they say in the amendment, but I am not going to go much longer because it is science that has been disproving them from now on. I will just add that in his last interview the famous astronomer and scientific divulger Carl Sagan - who was not, in case they didn't know, a leftist militant - predicted that without science people would be at the mercy of the next tyrant and phony who could take advantage of the planet and its people. It would be wise not to forget. In short, because of the continuous outbursts that attack rationality and reasoning - and also because Sagan was right in his warning - we will vote no to this amendment, because it is an amendment that attacks reason, rationality, responsibility, the life of the planet and respect for current and future generations. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u10	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Let us go on to say that this group, the Basque Group, is not going to vote in favour of the amendment as a whole today. The approval of this project, although it is late, is a positive news for us, as it involves having a regulatory framework and, in turn, a project that will be erected as a key element to ensure the exit from the health, economic and social crisis in which we are immersed. Although there is no international consensus on what climate emergency is, there is consensus on the existence of climate change. With no exceptions, all governments know global warming; scientists warn us with strong and strong reports, and climatology - we are seeing and suffering - also warns us with natural disasters. That is why we believe that climate change is one of the most urgent and complex challenges to which we must pay our full attention. The problem must be recognised and real and binding political commitments made so that public policies can respond through concrete actions and ultimately foster the energy transition through a regulatory framework, which is what we are dealing with today with with this law. We are faced with a law aligned, as has been said, with the objectives of Europe and, therefore, with its green pact strategy. We have already said this when the motion for a climate emergency declaration was passed in this House: the fight against climate change is a global challenge for us all, especially the closest entities that know better about the demands and needs of citizens. In this regard, international bodies have stressed that the commitment of the regions is fundamental to addressing the climate crisis. We understand that the law should also strive to recognize the fundamental role played by regional and local authorities in a decentralized and complex State like ours, and in which, in addition, the adoption of many of the measures corresponds to autonomous, provincial and local levels such as urban planning, mobility or economy. This project appears after many autonomous communities, and particularly the Basque one, have been addressing the fight against this serious planetary problem for years, so we have said that the norm must respect and value the great work that the autonomous communities, and particularly the Basque one, have been doing over the past twenty years. Today we are also debating a project that will involve a change in the socio-environmental model and the energy model, which will also affect various and multiple sectors and which will, of course, involve many changes, changes in the way in which we move and in which we generate or consume energy. That is why we believe that a law like this is necessary, but we must not lose sight of the fact that we are currently experiencing a major economic crisis and, therefore, the just transition must also pay special attention to ensuring that the business fabric does not deteriorate further in the pursuit of environmental objectives. According to the constitutional doctrine, such a rule must take into account not only environmental and energy objectives and policies, but also the current model in the economic field of industrial restructuring, employment, territorial cohesion, competitiveness of enterprises, training of workers, education, etc. - judgment 87/2019-. This is what, no more or less, we are going to ask of this law at this very moment when its approval is being debated. With the feeling that some of these areas have not, at best, been considered in the draft, we will have to integrate them into the process of amendments, understanding, moreover, that in many of these areas the autonomous competences must be respected and recognized, marking, yes, the State a circle of coordination that contemplates them, and that is that in order to coordinate, of course, there must be autonomous competences to coordinate. Its content, by virtue of this task of coordinating the law that it must comply with, must be primarily a programmatic content of establishing lines and objectives for the orderly and coherent achievement by all sectoral activities of mitigation and adaptation measures to climate change. On the rule, I am not going to go too far, because we will, as I have mentioned, do so through amendments, but I would like to leave a few points out. With regard to the objectives that international bodies have already set, of course, it is right for the State to set the objectives that must be achieved at the level of the State as a whole, but this should also not prevent the autonomous communities from being, at best, somewhat more ambitious. On planning, we support the state model that provides for different instruments for mitigation and adaptation, but we also support the freedom for autonomous plans, provided that they are consistent with the state, to establish not only the autonomous objectives adapted to their social or business reality, but also measures and indicators specific to their reality. Measures in coastal autonomous communities should not be the same as in other interiors with severe erosion problems, for example. Autonomic plans should be able to influence territorial particularities and the law should give some scope to this. At the strictly competitive level, greater effort should be made in the first final provision of the project to identify the competition titles on which the precepts are based. Nothing says the law of an environmental tax reform and this also surprises us a little bit because to make an energy transition - basically due to the tax overload that electricity has - would be necessary. Finally, we are concerned about a number of aspects. With regard to article 12, the promotion of non-emission mobility, we believe that the law should adopt an inclusive approach and avoid prohibition measures on internal combustion engine technology that would possibly lead to immediate disincentives to investment for the improvement and development not only of engines but also of fuels that feed them. Emissions reduction in transport should be addressed from a broader perspective than the exhaust pipe, as climate change is a global problem and CO2 emissions have the same effect, regardless of where they occur. In Article 18, on the coast, we understand that we must prepare the coast in view of the level of the coming sea and thus the legal management of the Sunday titles on this space, key piece in this framework. The draft law proposes a regulation in the management of titles of occupation of the maritime-terrestrial public domain, disregarding the justified warnings of legality that the Council of State has highlighted. We believe that, perhaps, this issue needs to be valued more calmly, seeing and balancing all the values at stake. As far as the fair transition agreements that have been brought in from French law are concerned, they are already covered in Basque law, but we believe that centralizing their signature in the State is a little broad; the rules of competition should be more respected. The law promotes hydro storage, but indicates that it will develop regulations to set storage and turbine conditions. We find it somewhat unnecessary because the operating conditions of all power stations are already regulated in European regulations. As regards the extension of the Efficiency Fund until 2030, we believe that it is, of course, a good measure, but we also believe that this fund should include cogeneration as a measure of efficiency and industrial competitiveness, financing this measure among all energy consumers. Finally, we believe that the law should also address that bilateral procurement that should be promoted, as it is good not only for the achievement of renewable targets, but also for industrial competitiveness. In fact, in the electro-intensives they are trying to encourage it, but, perhaps, we need to deepen a little bit more. That is why we are voting against this amendment as a whole, and we understand that it is a positive law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u12	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an amendment to the refund of a law with which the most affected sectors agree, because they need to have a legal framework that allows them to continue to grow, to continue to invest and to maintain industry. So much so that they have been working for years to adapt to their activities, their research of processes and products, and making investments that minimize their impact on the environment, moving ahead with the existence of a law like this, and always having as its axis the decisions taken in the European Union and in the different agreements that have been taken worldwide in this regard. We therefore debate whether to listen to civil society and the professional groups involved, or, on the contrary, to reject their claims and turn their backs on them for political interests. Our society also clearly demands measures that are essential to ensure the well-being of future generations, of tomorrow's Spaniards. We have been conscious for years that we need to reduce CO2 emissions, design shock and adaptation mechanisms to climate change and, in general, consolidate more sustainable development. In our country we have been aware for many years of this need; different is that we want this law as the Government has brought it to the Congress of Deputies. From Citizens we believe that it needs many improvements to provide the legal certainty that our industry needs; it is a law that needs changes and consensus, and we believe that the Government is aware of it, and if it is not, we tell it today. We all agree on the need for a law like this, except VOX, that they are unable to recognize the worrying signs such as global warming, tested and endorsed with numerous scientific studies and also with the fact that there is global consensus on this reality. This amendment to the totality that we are debating today is limited to asking for the withdrawal of the bill on the basis of various economic and ideological considerations in a somewhat inconclusive and prejudiced manner. On the one hand, it points out the excessive ambition of the objectives set out in both the draft law and the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan, which is true information in view of the objectives set out by the European Union for Spain. For example, in the face of the government's 21-23% reduction in greenhouse gases compared to 1990, the European Union requires Spain to return to the levels of that year. In addition, compared to a level of penetration of 42 to 45 % of renewables on final energy consumption proposed by the PNIEC and the draft law, respectively, the European Union raises 32 %. It is true that this project contains an enormous ambition that is probably beyond the real scope in which it can materialize; let us hope that it will not be achieved, not because of lack of political will but for propagandistic purposes. However, this law is not sufficient reason to require the withdrawal of the draft, since it is precisely possible to amend its wording. On the other hand, VOX supports its opposition in an aggressive ideological confrontation in which it is intended to blame the phenomenon of climate change on a certain invention of the political left, in order to generate new divisions and electoral support in its favor. While it is true that the environmental issue, as well as other very important ones, run the risk of being subject to party manipulation and use, it cannot be concluded that it is merely a political invention, given the repeated empirical evidence that has been systematised through the work of the IPPC. Let us say that, in this case, VOX listens more to his own prejudices than to the conclusions of the scientific community. Finally, VOX supports its decision in certain articles and even statements by the head of this ministry, which on more or less grounds do not give rise to a return amendment, since amendments can be made to the wording of those aspects with which it disagrees or which it wants to improve, as precisely with the question of technological neutrality and transport, as we have been defending from Citizens. Mrs Borrás, all those initiatives that you have put here and all those disagreements, why don't you take them through an amendment to the joint and build them? The opposition consists in that, in building, in ceding and in negotiating. I think that the VOX group should leave this maximalism of 'everything or nothing', of 'with me or against me' and start doing politics, trading, dialogue, negotiating and, why not say so, also giving in. Where there is maximalism there is no use, ladies and gentlemen. To condition the fight against climate change, which belongs to all humanity and to various generations, to the unfortunate statements of the minister is, at least, surprising as an argument. For all this, we will vote against this amendment in its entirety and continue to work to propose amendments that make this law achieve reasonable objectives so that it has an appropriate impact on our industry and that it offers the necessary legal certainty. Climate change is here, it is a challenge for all humanity. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is serious enough to deal with it fought by a short race and looking only at the small letter and the political. Let's be responsible, let's do it for our kids. Thank you so much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u14	Madam President, Minister, the BNG agrees that legislation is needed to promote a transition to the use of renewable energies that contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and to mitigate and avoid the present and future effects of climate change as far as possible. That is why we are surprised at this point in time by the terraplanist attitude supported by the negationist theories, so we will, of course, vote against the amendment as a whole. However, this law, in our view, suffers from problems, omissions and inconcretions that must be corrected. As it is, it is not our law and we will try to improve it through the process of amendments. In any case, in the very short period of time that I have, I shall refer only to two or three questions. To begin with, as has been customary in the rules emanating recently from this Government, the jurisdictional distribution is not respected, so that many of the aspects they regulate go far beyond the character of basic law that is attributed and invades the competences of the autonomous communities. Secondly, the BNG calls for a just energy transition for Galicia and we know that it will be really possible only if our country assumes full sovereignty in order to be able to make decisions on energy policy and take advantage of our potential for self-centered development. Alcoa's case is an example of this need. By the way, time is running out and the Government is not providing solutions. Is the government going to nationalize Alcoa or not? What does the Minister of Industry expect for the public intervention of a company that for A Mariña is fundamental? What does the Minister of Labour expect to safeguard jobs by nationalizing the aluminium plant? I'm done. They automatically withdraw article 18, which, without meaning, amends the Costas Act and seriously harms the marine-food sector, which is fundamental in Galicia and which also represents a sustainable activity. In any case, we are announcing that this is going to be one of our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, from More CountryEquo we will vote against this amendment in its entirety. Ladies and gentlemen of the far right, they come no further than ten years late to an outmoded debate and, above them, they come with the banner of Trump's insolidarity and negationism and with the speech of the nuclear lobby. That is how you come to this debate. But I want to address the rest of the House. We don't have time to waste. From Kyoto to Paris, through the failed Copenhagen agreement, there have been twenty-five summits, two hundred countries signed the Paris Agreement and we have thousands of scientists working. We need a clear and courageous road map to carry it forward. Firstly, because the European recovery fund will have psychological constraints and we need to be ambitious because we cannot miss that train that is important to our country. Climate action must be a tool for social development linked to the territory, generating prosperity and capable of generating opportunities and equality. Secondly, a warning to the honourable Members of the Government. We have aligned ourselves with science to deal with the climate emergency and we must remain aligned with science to deal with the climate emergency. To comply with science, Spain would have to reduce its emissions by 55% by 2030 and achieve climate neutrality by 2040. To this day - it must be made clear - that is not covered by the law. There is time to correct it and we must be consistent. On the one hand, it cannot be self-proclaimed as the Government of the climate emergency and, on the other, it cannot reject, with various manoeuvres, amendments to ensure that publicly rescued companies comply with taxation and the Paris Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't have a planet B. There's no excuse. We have all the information about the harshness of the climate emergency, we have the scientific consensus and the cry of civil society and the younger people on the street. Let us use that force because we have no right to steal your future, because we owe it to you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. Finally, for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u18	Thank you, President. Mrs Borrás, you use reports that certainly were not right in your predictions - because there are - to dismantle a whole global fight against climate change. You in your amendment say that, as the islands continue to exist and are not flooded and there were reports that the islands would not exist in 2020, the poles do not have anything to do with them. This is a bit of a trap, because it is also compatible that something happens to the poles - in fact, there is scientific evidence that something happens to the poles - with which the islands remain where they were. I therefore say to you that, because of your pseudo-scientific criteria, we are going to vote against your amendment as a whole. You say you want to protect farmers. I say, do you know the best way to protect farmers? Do everything in our hands to prevent the temperature of the planet from rising. As the temperature of the planet rises and new non-indigenous species appear in the Mediterranean region, this will complicate the lives of our farmers and workers. To the extent that heat waves are longer and more intense during the year, the work and work of our farmers will be more complicated. If we want to work to make life easier for farmers, to whom you referred, the first thing we must do is to know that we are doing everything in our hands to prevent the temperature of the planet from continuing to rise. You said that the fight against climate change is an invention of the left in order to continue to control the lives of citizens. I recommend that you read references from the European left such as Macron or Merkel, who have written and said very interesting things about the fight against climate change. It is respectable for you to take Steve Bannon as your scientific reference, the same as your colleague Trump, but do not try to give us by science what is not science but, basically, political strategy. If you want to demarcate from the left, look for the formula to do so, but don't use that pseudoscience you bring us here. We do not want this climate change law, we want another law. We are going to fight and we are going to defend our amendments so that it is another law that establishes a new regulatory framework. So, we want that law to take its course, we want to work on that law, we want to discuss that law, because there are things we don't like. It seems to us that much more needs to be done with the sectors that need to be transformed and that need to be changed in order to adapt to the new times. You have to go with them. You don't have to kill anyone. We can all come out stronger from this transformation and from this change. There is one thing, Mrs. Borrás, in which I do agree with you. You say - and I quote textually -: VOX lacks its own position on climate issues. I would tell you that you must be very brave to acknowledge that you do not have a position and to present an amendment to the whole of 14 pages. We would appreciate it if you would put it on the first page next day; we will be saved from reading the rest of the content of your text. As I said, we are going to vote against your amendment as a whole, because we do believe in the fight against climate change, we do believe it is a global struggle and we do believe it is a generational struggle. We also want to highlight from this rostrum the work of all these young people who have stressed the importance of the fight against climate change in order to have a better planet today and in the future. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u20	Good afternoon, Minister. I was wondering what verses of La Marsellesa was going to quote, but I'm afraid to get out of here accused of sedition. In one way or another - good afternoon, minister - we agree that the challenge is not even of the right or the left, but of the whole of present and future society, of the planet we want to leave our children. We agree that we cannot talk about open debate. We agree that there is consensus in the scientific community. We agree that it is not possible to work on infinite growth hypotheses on a finite planet; technology will help, but we must understand that resources are finite and life is based on symbiosis relations with other animal and plant species, not with an extractive logic. We agree that the opportunity is to innovate and not be afraid of changes to protect the former, long-subsidized model; the externalities of fossil and nuclear pay for them by citizens and nature: traps are made when accounting for costs. We agree that the current state of knowledge must be addressed so as not to fall into the gross manipulation. We agree that the environment or economy is a false dilemma; not only are they not contradictory, but there is an opportunity to make them compatible and mutually necessary. Wealth is provided by the environment and, if we destabilize it, the economy will also destabilize. Let us, then, minister, overcome this process and prepare ourselves for an intense, responsible and long-sighted work for which, if we apply ourselves all generously, I believe it will be the most transcendent law, no longer of this legislature, but surely of this decade. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u22	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what patriotism you presume, that you are involved every day in flags and ignore the greatest damage a country can suffer, the damage to its territory that is being destroyed by climate change; the territory on which its economic activities are based, in particular the primary sector, agriculture, livestock and fisheries; its natural spaces, which house the greatest diversity in Europe, which is being destroyed by climate change; the destruction of its forests, its beaches, meals year after year by sea level rise; the disappearance of the animal species with which we share this land. This is what is happening, according to all scientific evidence. You have created a new concept, which is that of true conservationism, which I had never heard. But, really, if you deny climate change as you are denying it, there is no conservationism possible; it is contrary to the conservation of our natural heritage. Think of your sons and daughters. What world do you want to leave them? With the COVID-19 they said that we had not been warned of what was happening. With climate change, from the scientific community we have been being warned very seriously, for many years, about what is happening. You don't have to go to the Arctic, you don't have to go looking for pine trees under the glaciers. Think of Spain, what the Spanish Meteorology Agency says: that average temperatures have increased 1.6 degrees Celsius in our country. We are the country of the European Union most affected by global warming. It is that the summers have increased their duration five weeks, according to the Spanish Agency of Meteorology, which is not a Bolshevik organism. They say, "Leave science to scientists." Well, that's what scientists are telling us. It is that the increase in temperatures has already discernible impacts in our country. It is that 6% of the territory of the Iberian peninsula, 30,000 square kilometers, have gone to a semi-arid climate. That is, you are in a serious process of desertification; we are in a serious process of desertification, and you come to tell us that this is not so. Warming is perceptible in the seas. Average temperatures in the Mediterranean have been rising at 0.34 degrees Celsius per decade since the early 1980s. This is said by the Bolsheviks of the Centre for Environmental Studies of the Mediterranean; and so on. The water. Aemet has recently released a report saying that water reserves in our country, water availability has been reduced by 18%, precisely because of this increase in temperatures, and that, as a result of evaporation and evapotranspiration, available water is reduced. It's a hugely serious problem. In short, our country is a victim - it is a victim - of climate change. We have a responsibility to ask the international community to fight climate change more and more intensively, because we are victims - we are victims - and you come here to tell us that nothing happens. If your amendment were adopted, it would be a disaster for our country, and I am sure you do not want it yourself. I believe that this is a purely posturean amendment and that it has nothing to do with reality or what you think or what most Spaniards think, not even your voters, because a recent poll published by the Bolshevik media El Mundo says that 91% of Spaniards consider climate change to be a serious or very serious problem; among them, including their voters; more than 70% of their voters consider climate change to be a serious or very serious problem, and climate change is caused - and the scientific consensus says so - by greenhouse gas emissions, as all previous Members and Members have already said. Look, we who have been fighting climate change for many years know very well that negationism has prevented progress and know very well that it is financed by companies that exploit fossil fuels. Already in 1992 the world agreed at the Rio de Janeiro Summit that a global agreement was needed to combat climate change, but the paralyzing fog of negationism has caused emissions to continue to rise from 1992 to the present. We already know that very soon - already in 1998 - The New York Times, for example, published a document from the American Petroleum Institute detailing a millionaire plan to recruit scientists and journalists and train them in public relations to help them convince journalists, politicians and the general public against climate change, and so we have since, this has not stopped and prevented much faster progress. As I say, your negationism is not scientific; you exercise another kind of negationism, which is purely political negationism, an irresponsible posture that endangers our environment and the future of the generations that come after us, as well as our own economic development. You're reviving the same fire that Bolsonaro ignites by destroying the Amazon, that's what you're doing. [[Give it up.]] And, look, we're no longer discussing the need to decarbonize the economy; we're discussing how to do it quickly, economically and socially justly. That is the challenge and that is the responsibility of this House. Europe is betting on an exit from this crisis in green. There will be the resources and the momentum that will come from Europe and there must also be Spain. Returning to negationist positions like the ones you defend is to leave our industry once again at the tail of Europe, in marginality; that would destroy thousands of jobs. The law itself, however, calls for the mobilisation of EUR 250 billion and the creation of more than 300 000 jobs. You're wrong when you say Spain will lead. Precisely before the start of the COVID-19 we had a meeting with the European Climate Foundation which you did not attend, in which we were informed that most European countries - I read them - have already had a climate change law in Denmark, France, the United Kingdom, Sweden, the Netherlands, Germany and so on. Therefore, Spain does not lead, Spain goes behind; unfortunately, we have been a long time behind in this law and we have had many debates in this House on this. It is time to catch up and that is why it is urgent that this law be debated and carried forward with such improvements as are necessary. On the subject of the nuclear industry, you contradict each other, because if there is no climate change and CO2 does not matter, then nuclear energy, which is the most expensive way to produce energy and is also the dirtiest because it generates radioactive waste, you will tell me what it is for. So, let's see if they're clear about where they're positioned. In any case, the truth is that - I insist on this - a climate change law is essential. We've been talking about it for many years; it's time to drop the words and move on to action. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude this speech by asking you to make a gesture for future generations and withdraw that amendment. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u23	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Gago Bugarín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u24	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President. The fight against climate change does not understand ideologies, nor does it understand that it can be subject to the moral judgment of party appropriation of some political groups that want to generate their own flag. We understand that the fight against climate change is not one's own, but is a matter for all. It is an economic, social and environmental demand of the first magnitude in which we are committed from minute one. That is why I want my first words to be of affirmation, of affirmation that this parliamentary group will lead the achievement of the objectives agreed at global level and led by a member of our parliamentary group in Europe, Ursula von der Leyen, and already developed by Minister Isabel Tejerina and Minister Miguel Arias Cañete. We are clear that we are late in the fight against climate change, and we are late, Mr López de Uralde, because we proposed in 2018 a climate change law that you had at the table and that you did not want to support or approve, and we are late because the fourth vice president has decided that it was not the time to put it into effect when she arrived at the government and two years later we should be amending and improving a law that was already worked on and had already been launched by the People's Party. Now we have to run to try to comply, not to be late, as we have arrived with the PNIEC and with other plans agreed with Europe late, bad and trailing. With regard to the amendment, what we want to say to you, Mr VOX, is that these are not times for negationism. We cannot support an amendment which calls into question the impact of CO2 on global warming, which denies the thawing of poles or says that the climate change law is a package of catastrophic media that confront the Spaniards. Honestly, we can't support this. You want to walk alone, you want to go your own way and try to flag your own flag by changing it in color and, ultimately, honestly, we think you're wrong. Madam Vice-President, we must work together on the objective of decarbonising all economic sectors by 2050, but putting forward solutions cannot mean breaking down our country's industrial fabric, it cannot mean leaving workers on the street, we cannot afford to lose industry, the main primary aluminium industry in Spain, and we cannot afford to attack and put the maritime fishing industry in check. We cannot afford to generate a deficit in our electrical system. Countries like Finland, countries like Japan, countries like Germany or countries like the United States have different rhythms than you are trying to score here today and, however, continue to bet firmly on renewable energies. Look, they have set us a timetable for the closure of power plants, some of which guarantee today, and I say today, supply; other clean base energies, such as nuclear ones, without having an alternative planning that guarantees us security of supply. We are therefore concerned as a parliamentary group about the electricity tariff and we are concerned about the future of our industries. Just as we have been asked a map of unreal interconnections, with thresholds that can hardly be carried out, such as the degree of interconnection with the European continent of 8 gigawatts set for 2030 in the PNIEC, when they are only committed, and you know it, at European level in the year 2026 to 5 gigawatts, and that being optimistic. Finally, who pays for the mistakes of this government's decisions, Minister? For the most part, small and medium-sized enterprises and, of course, electric consumers. Since the Zapatero era, almost 28 billion euros of tariff deficit have been generated, a diversion that still today, fifteen years later, we continue to pay all consumers. Instead of being concerned and supporting us in correcting the error you have generated, you have made a constant demagogy in the fight against the tariff deficit. Perhaps we should thank Mr Rajoy, whose reform of the electricity sector - and you know it or should know it - allowed five consecutive years of energy surplus until you came back to the government, and again, again, we are running into a tariff deficit, and it is that the story is repeated over and over again when the Socialist Party rules. [[Give it up.]] It is not necessary to remind him that we have signed the Paris Agreements, that we have put in place mechanisms for carbon footprint registration, that we have agreed with companies that public-private partnership essential for the green transition, a green growth strategy where the main companies in our country were included. All this has laid the groundwork for you to finally present a climate change law in 2020 today. But let's look, to finish, at what concerns us here today. We need an ambitious climate change and energy transition law, much more ambitious than you bring us here, but not ambitious in shortening deadlines, which in that you and your party are leaders, but ambitious in adding it, taking advantage of the amount of green reconstruction funds that will be made available to governments and above all that will be made available to businesses. Let us hope that this Government will be able to work with companies so that we can launch the countless key projects for the energy, business and industrial future of our country. Please note that issues such as heavy road freight transport, which accounts for 7.5% of total emissions according to the Ministry's official data, are not covered by this law, nor are there any insistence on the empowerment of railways or the fight against pollution in transport. Nor is there any reference to the consequences of the implementation of telework. They are unable to modify and improve a law when it is not even passed. We have just come out of a historic phase, from the COVID; we know the consequences that this has generated and you are unable, despite the evidence, to bring further improvements and to modify the regulatory frameworks. There is no incentive, for example, for the use of alternative fuels, as has already been said. Indeed, we believe in biofuels as an alternative, especially for heavy road transport. It's about the electric vehicle. Anyway, I think you should talk about this vehicle in other terms. You've made a direct attack on the renovation of the car park. We have the oldest car park in Europe - 12,5 years -. It talks about the Renovation Plan, it talks about the implementation of the electric vehicle and, however, it is unable to install charging points that can materialize the implementation of the electric vehicle. And I'm done, Madam President. We do not believe in the implementation, the implementation and the rise of taxes. We believe in the opposite, and there we are 100 percent different. We believe that a tax reduction allows economic recovery, and what we have to do is to reactivate the economy by favouring that energy transition and that industrial transition, lowering taxes and not charging them to make it more difficult. We believe a tradition, in short, that takes advantage of the opportunities that are to come. We want Spain to be a leader at the industrial and technological levels in the disruptive developments that are going to occur. While you are in the government, we have a feeling that we are slowly falling behind. So, do a self-criticism exercise, do a quiet humility exercise, analyze what's going on...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u25	Mr. Gago, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u26	I'm done with one last sentence. Of course we will support a climate change law if it is dialogued, if it is consensual, if it is added and if it is improved, but what I tell you is that there is a clear difference between what you do and what we think, and that is that you want to get, as we do, on the same day in Rome, that is, on the same day and at the same time in 2050, to the decarbonization of the economy, of the economic sectors of Spain, but you want to do it through a single motorway with high tolls and we want to do it and we want to take the Spaniards through many motorways and without tolls. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u27	Thank you, Mr. Gago. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you so much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Caballero Gutiérrez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u28	Of the cases in which the VOX Group might have tabled an amendment to the entire law, you have chosen the one of disagreement with the spirit of the law without alternative text. And I believe that this is what really defines your position, because it has been an unrelated cluster, a whirlwind of unfounded beliefs and prejudices that does indeed break with all scientific rationality; scientific rationality in which there is a broad consensus - and some of those who have already spoken to me - because 97% of scientists experts on this subject, gathered around the International Panel on Climate Change, have demonstrated for many years that climate change exists and that the cause is man's actions. Therefore, this is not an open debate at all; it is a debate that was closed many years ago. They have also shown, as my colleague Uralde said earlier, that Spain is a country particularly vulnerable to climate change because this is where the average temperatures are increasing more; this is where the effects of floods and drought are most intense; this is where precipitation has decreased by 18% on average and therefore the flow of our rivers; this is where there is a greater loss of biodiversity and here is where fires are becoming more severe every day. In addition, Spain is the European country where greenhouse emissions have increased the most since 1990, according to Eurostat. That is why, and not for anything else, our situation is exactly climate emergency and that is why we reject your amendment, because we need a determined intervention already to change the direction of our country in this situation. The scientific consensus is total, but not only; the social consensus is also overwhelming. The survey referred to earlier by Mr Uralde, who published El Mundo, was carried out by the Eurobarometer in March 2020, in the midst of the pandemic, and in it curiously the most important fact was that 91% of Spaniards considered this to be one of the most important problems for our country, they agreed that the budget of the Spanish State should go in part to mitigate these effects and in addition 80% every day take action to correct its effects, that is, that the Spaniards, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, are already committed to climate change, are committed to taking action. Only you are the ones who are behind the citizens on this issue. This great consensus was also seen in the vote that took place here on 17 September, when all but you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, voted in favour of the government declaring the climate emergency in Spain, taking cross-cutting actions in all policies to mitigate its effects. And the Government of Spain made this declaration of climate emergency in January of this year 2020, along with a package of measures among which this law is the most important point. But not only this law; the national energy and climate change plan, which was not sent to Brussels with night and light during the pandemic, as you say, but it had already been sent a year earlier and was particularly well valued in its objectives and measures. Also the second national climate change adaptation plan, because we need not only to mitigate the effects of climate change but to adapt to them. And I say second because the first was also carried out by a socialist government in 2006. Because here I would like to remind you that the People's Party is an expert in spending seven or eight years in a government and always leaving on time, on time, about to draw the best environmental conservation laws but without having taken one. [[Give it up.]] And, along with this, the emissions trading law has already entered Parliament for its processing, in order to abound in mitigation; the waste law; the circular economy strategy; and the just transition agreements. All this is already being processed despite the situation we have experienced. The scientific consensus is total, the social consensus is total and the political consensus is almost total, as has been seen here, because only you are always on the sidelines, always staying out of that citizen consciousness that there is about the need to take action. The consensus was again seen in the Committee on Reconstruction that has recently ended, where everyone agreed that progress in our country must be around that green pact, aligned with the European Union - by the way, the green pact that will be seen today in Brussels - by promoting a climate change law, a 100 per cent renewable energy strategy, a model of circular economy, efficient buildings, sustainable mobility. And you have again stayed out of the reconstruction of this country. [[Applauds]] Therefore, no excuse has been sought in the climate emergency for driving or to justify the State's coercive intervention in the economy and society, as you have said. The reality is just the opposite, it is VOX who puts forward ideological principles based on the non-intervention of the State, which in Paladin Roman is called the ostrich strategy, which translates into the refusal to establish rules of play that reactivate and modernize the economy of this country. It also indicates that you have not learned anything from the crisis that we are still experiencing which, first of all, has been a biological crisis. By destroying ecosystems and biodiversity, we have lost the protection screen posed by mature ecosystems in the face of the event of zoonoses, which is that viruses pass from other vertebrates to humans, which have no defences against them, the epidemic becomes a pandemic and the health crisis becomes the biggest economic and social crisis that this country has suffered since the Second World War. You have not learned any of this and it is now more evident than ever that we cannot separate health or economic decisions from environmental ones. If the solution is, as you propose, to continue doing everything as always, we will achieve the same results that we have always achieved and that we are living now. We reject its amendment because it is the duty of this Government to respond to the general consensus and lay the foundations for the reconstruction of the country, positioning Spain to take advantage of the opportunities that the ecological transition opens in the modernization of our economy. Because an investment of EUR 235 billion is estimated in ten years, 80% of them private. Therefore, it is false the increase in public spending that you brought. We believe that 8% of the country's GDP will be increased and there will also be an average of 354 000 new jobs. All of them are net data, ladies and gentlemen. We reject your amendment because it is not a question of Spain remaining committed to the environment, but not at any cost, but of avoiding insurmountable costs arising from environmental degradation and climate change. Spain does not try to lead decarbonisation without waiting for the rest of the countries; on the contrary, its project is part of the country agreement and is incorporated into the European project for the reconstruction of the continent, in which virtually all countries and political groups agree. With regard to the technological neutrality they have mentioned, the draft law is not against any technology, it merely seeks to compete on equal terms and opportunities, giving priority to all those technologies that generate greenhouse gases, except for those for which there is no other technological solution at the moment. In addition, since 2016, both solar and wind power have improved in costs to the energy of coal or gas. On the other hand, Spain has scarce fossil resources in the subsoil; today the technologies that have mentioned the abduction of carbon use would not be profitable, today they are not mature and do not solve the problem at all. As for cogeneration, Royal Decree 23/2020 has already been adopted, which will have to be validated and which has been applauded in the sector. And with regard to nuclear energy, as the previous colleague has said, you argue that it is a clean and cheap energy, and that is to look at reality with earphones, because not wanting to see that eighty years after using nuclear energy we do not know what to do with the toxicity and radioactivity of the waste and we have to store them waiting for something to happen to us is to deny the reality that it is the most polluting energy and is to deny...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u29	Mrs. Knight, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u30	...the widespread effect of nuclear energy and accidents in this country. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, scientist Eudald Carbonell, who is a co-director anthropologist of the Atapuerca deposit, maintains that the COVID crisis is the last warning that we will not collapse as a species, that this will only be avoided if we face with critical species awareness the global problem and correct our course of development. Our species, as you know, is Homo sapiens, which means the one who knows, the one who has a culture, the one who can transmit it, but a million years earlier there was another Homo, the erectus, which means the one who stands up, the one who rises from quadruped to biped, who was much more muscular, hunter. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, do you not think it is time to be a little more sapiens and a little less erectus? Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Knight. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u32	We turn to the point concerning the opinion of the draft organic law on the use of passenger name registration data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crimes. I should like to inform you that the vote on the opinion, as well as the overall vote on the initiative for being organic, will take place at tomorrow's sitting. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u33	Thank you very much, President. Today we will take an important step in the right direction in this House to transpose Directive 2016/681, known as the PNR Directive, whose deadline for incorporation into the domestic legal system expired just over two years ago. Spain is the last country in the Union to have this transposition pending, which has meant, as you know, that the European Commission has decided to bring the State before the Court of Justice of the Union in Luxembourg. But, ladies and gentlemen, I also told you that today it is intended that we will adopt in this Congress of Deputies the harmonization of our legal provisions with those of the rest of the Member States in order to protect citizens against complex forms of serious crime, such as terrorism and organised crime in twenty-six categories of serious crimes, including trafficking in human beings, sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, illicit arms trafficking, corruption, cybercrime, money laundering and counterfeiting, environmental crimes, abductions and organ trafficking, voluntary murder, and so on up to twenty-six categories of serious crimes, whose prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution will be done as in the rest of the Union, that is, in addition to the means and instruments that we have so far had, also with the collection, processing and protection of personal data on the passage of air transport and its transmission to the competent authorities for their protection, detection, investigation and prosecution. These authorities include judges and courts, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the CNI, the Directorates-General of the Civil Guard and the National Police, the Comprehensive Autonomous Police and the Deputy Directorate of Customs Surveillance as the Judicial Police. [[The Lord]] As I said to you, with the adoption of the draft organic law that we are discussing today, we are taking important steps towards the consolidation in the Union of a uniform area of freedom, security and justice that protects citizens against serious threats, both through high standards of security and through a guaranteed legal framework for the protection and processing of citizens' personal data as long as they are air travel. In this way, different rights and freedoms are co-honested, such as, on the one hand, security and, on the other hand, the privacy and privacy of personal data, the balance between rights and freedoms achieved after a complex processing within the Union of more than five years and after the debate that we also had in this House just over a month ago, on the occasion of an amendment to the whole that was finally rejected and that, if it had prospered, would have involved the questioning of the primacy of Community law and, ultimately, the questioning of the backbone that holds the European Union together, which is its legal system. As I had occasion to say in that debate, if a State could decide which rules of the Union apply to it and which do not, the Union itself would crumble, as the European Court of Justice has pointed out, thereby implicitly rejecting a sustained debate in the manner of the theory of annulment advocated by John Carlton in favour of the federated states at the dawn of the United States of America, in the face of laws of the Union that might consider unconstitutional or simply unacceptable. Finally, ladies and gentlemen - and I am finalizing, Madam President - with the approval of this draft, following an intense and respectful debate in the House and the Committee on the Interior, in view of the various amendments that have been tabled, our group considers that a fundamental step is being taken in its final adoption process, thus contributing to a more complete consolidation, as I said, in the Union of a uniform area of freedom, security and justice for the greater protection of citizens in the face of frankly serious crimes, and we will therefore support the opinion of the Committee on the Interior that we are debating today. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u34	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Next, I have the floor for the Citizens' Group, Mr Cambronero Piqueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u35	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, evening and ears, this is how we discussed today the adoption of the opinion of the Committee on the Interior on the draft organic law on the use of passenger name registration data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crimes, the directive commonly called PNR. We are the last country in the European Union, it is said soon, to incorporate a regulation transposing Directive 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016. It is part of Community law and we have to incorporate it into our system. To the feeling of shame that accompanies being the last country, there is an even greater one, that of concern. How to explain so much disdain, and above all so laziness, in the adoption of a rule that all it seeks is to protect us nothing more and nothing less than terrorism and serious crimes. How can we explain to our European partners that in Spain there is an anti-jihadist state pact and that the government, one of the government parties, has self-excluded from that pact, the Lords of Podemos. It is that, ladies and gentlemen, not only have we put ourselves at risk, but we have also put the whole of the European Union's security strategy at risk. We are squandering Spain's credibility in Brussels and we are usually faced with sanctions for this; moreover, we do not have enough money right now. It is clear that the current situation has absolutely nothing to do with the specific moment at which this directive was created. We were on a basis on which most Member States had increased their level of alarm due to terrible events that cost the lives of many Europeans. In Spain we were and are on alert 4 anti-terrorist, one of the highest levels and which more concrete measures imply. They are seen or not, carried out by the State Security Forces and Corpses. Also that they don't see them is part of that plan. We live the return to normality after a terrible pandemic - which has not ended, by the way - with tens of thousands of dead Spaniards. We still don't know how many. A total confinement of three months, with closure of borders and under a terrible economic crisis that threatens especially one of the most important sectors of our economy, tourism. Despite the words of Minister Garzón, it is an essential sector for our economy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we need to open borders and receive tourists, and to do so with all the guarantees of personal and health security that travellers deserve. We need security, it's a good of first necessity. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the safety of all Europeans. I do not think that there are any or, rather, almost no political groups that question it, and I say that I believe that because precisely United We can, the party of Mr Garzón and Mr Iglesias, which governs with Sánchez, is not present in the Anti-Terrorism Pact, nor in the State Pact against Macho Violence and they tried to break the Pensions Toledo Pact. We can thus understand that delay. It's the allergy to Podemos' consensus. With regard to the processing of this organic law, we have to say that during its debate in the Committee on the Interior, amendments have been made to its wording in order to bring it into line with the specific moment we are experiencing and the specialties of our legal system. Ladies and gentlemen, the secret formula for achieving the adoption of such important rules as this is the one we have used in the Committee on the Interior: consensus and agreements with the sectors and actors concerned. I know that talking about consensus in this House at this time is a bit of science fiction, but in matters like these, as sensitive to the security of everyone, we have achieved this. We have buried partyism, something we should practice with great assiduousness. Millions of families depend on the decisions we can make in this House. Let us think a little more about them and a little less about politics. Let us be responsible and make negotiation and consensus a custom. So we understand politics in Citizens and we invite them to practice it to the other political groups. Another very important issue is that we are talking about nothing more and nothing less than combating terrorism. There are groups present here that are unclear and even difficult to identify terrorism despite having lived comfortably very close to it, hence the absence of Bildu in the procedures of this organic law. Besides, we're experiencing a particularly difficult time. Bildu has introduced three convicted of terrorism-related crimes into the Basque Parliament, which should at least make us reflect. And yes, let's keep talking about ETA. Even if we do not like the Lords of Podemos, we will continue to talk about ETA, because we need memory, justice, dignity and reparation as long as there are still 379 unsolved murders, as long as there are unworthy acts of rise to terrorism and as long as the unworthy approach of terrorist prisoners continues to be carried out. In Citizens we know perfectly what is the enemy of our democracy and we will fight it with all the weight of the law and with the magnificent work that our Forces and State Security Corps are doing. What we approve today is only an instrument to achieve it. I must say that this rule represents an exponential improvement in the security of our borders on the most important aspect in my opinion. By my professional training, I believe that the preventive aspect is the most important to combat terrorism directly. We will therefore vote in favour of the Commission's opinion on this organic bill. It has generated a broad consensus among the political forces, which we could also extend, as I have said, to other initiatives, as my parliamentary group is proposing. Without further ado, I would like to thank, first of all, the magnificent and enormous work of the lawyer who has enlightened us on the way to this process and, then, my parliamentary group, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, for granting me the honour of participating as rapporteur in the processing of such a relevant standard for the safety of all. For a lawyer and a cop there can be no greater honor. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain and Europe today are a little safer thanks to the consensus of the Democrats. The law of the jungle is a little further and democracy is a little stronger today. We should all welcome the adoption of this rule. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u36	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor. [[Pause.]] He's not here. Then Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u37	Thank you, President. [[His speech continues in Catalan.]] There are two issues that concern us about this transposition that we are dealing with today, and it is not the content itself, because, after all, it is practically literal to the proposal that comes to us from Europe, with some improvement worked on in the paper and in the Commission, but we are concerned, firstly, that we have arrived two years late and, secondly, that we are concerned about how this directive will be interpreted once it has been adopted. This directive was one of the more than fifty pending transpositions. Almost half of them are already out of date. This, the PNR - some fellow has mentioned it -, the 2016/681, is one of those that were pending and out of date; in fact, it was approved in 2016 and the deadline to transpose it was May 25, 2018. Since it could not be otherwise - another colleague has commented - the European Commission has denounced Spain to the Court of Justice of the European Union and has asked for more fines. We don't understand how you get to this point of neglect of functions knowing you're facing million dollar fines. Spain takes an average of 12 months more than the rest of the Member States to transpose directives and also concentrates 70% of the penalties imposed for late transpositions of directives. That being said, one can say and one must denounce... [[His speech continues in Catalan.]] And it can also be said that the judicial war that you have begun will end it we, we will not leave it as an inheritance to our children, and we will win it. The second point that concerns us also relates to the judicial war to which I was now referring. Because, yes, the root of the conflict between Catalonia and Spain is its lack of democracy, and democracy always has to do with each and every one of the issues that we talk about and discuss here, even though I am often called upon to remember it. I was saying that the other thing that worries us is, once this directive is transposed and adopted, how you will interpret it. With this directive, what we are going to combat are serious crimes and terrorism. My question is what terrorism is for you. Because the detainees on 23rd were arrested on charges of terrorism, and what they had were wicks of the verbena of Sant Joan. With this, do I run the risk of being accused of terrorism for having wicks of the verbena of Sant Joan and being independenceist? I have Sant Joan's wicks at home. It's obvious that yes, that I and a lot of people are at great risk. I'm done. The problem is not the directive itself, because the directive is right, it is right, it is necessary and in the other countries it has already been adopted. The problem is that reality in Spain is what it is. Therefore, the question of the million is who will decide in Spain what it is and what it is not terrorism, what it is and what it is not a serious crime. Will Prosecutor Zaragoza decide that holding a referendum is a crime, even if it has been decriminalized? Are those who refuse to investigate State terrorism going to decide that? Will those who refuse to investigate on August 17 do so? Those who spy, persecute, and imprison political dissent? Or are the patriotic judges going to do it? The weird thing is not that I come out here every day to denounce the shame of the State of Spain or the shame of the Spanish State, the weird thing is that they don't do it every day, each and every one of you. Freed political prisoners and exiles, and freed Catalonia visca.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u38	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u39	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that there is some bird in the Chamber and, before we start, it would be good to check it, because when it was coming down they made some bird noise. With regard to the draft Organic Law on the Use of Passenger Name Record Data for the Prevention, Detection, Investigation and Prosecution of Terrorist and Serious Crimes, the Republican Parliamentary Group would like to recall that the PNR is a centralized file containing in a unified way the information that the various airlines collect from their passengers, and which includes not only their personal identifying data, such as names, surnames, address, telephone number, but also the date, travel itinerary, means of payment, number of credit cards, baggage information, and so on, up to about twenty categories of data related to the processing of flight reservations and their control. The objective of such files is to facilitate the prosecution and investigation of crimes of international terrorism and other forms of serious transnational crime through the development of passenger profiles, according to their risk levels. In the Spanish State, freedom of expression is abducted in the courts; its democratic quality has been questioned many times, and the news that comes to us today from the newspaper El País and the newspaper The Guardian reaffirms us in this conviction. It is extremely serious that the motive of the president of the Parliament of Catalonia, former MP Ana Gabriel and a member of the ANC, Mr Jordi Domingo, were attacked by an Israeli spy program, exclusively dominated by the governments of the States. The dilemma between freedom and security is a dilemma that we reject because without freedom security is only a fiction; so said Mr Nestor of the BNG. The collective invasion of the privacy of persons and data on a preventive basis, without evidence of the commission of crimes, seems to us incompatible with a democratic and legal State. It is important to remember that the Group of European Data Protection Supervisors, which is an independent advisory body of the European Commission, said in its day that the European passenger data file, designed to combat terrorism and serious crime, can seriously weaken rights such as privacy protection and personal data of travellers, so they advised that, if approved by the European Parliament, it should be used in accordance with the principle of proportionality. We must all ask ourselves: is the PNR Directive, 2016/681, on the registration of passenger names, incompatible with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union? We must also ask ourselves whether it violates the right to the protection of personal data and the right to respect for the private and family life of persons buying air tickets. To illustrate these two questions, I will say that in 2019 members of the EDRi and the German Civil Rights Society took legal action against the PNR Directive, filing complaints with the District Court of Cologne, Germany. The latter referred the case to the European Court of Justice in 2020 due to the obvious implications of European Union law against airline Deutsche Lufthansa for transferring its data to the German Federal Criminal Police Office. The automatic transfer of data from people who purchase international flight tickets allows authorities to analyze and store a lot of confidential information. The directive seeks to reconcile two citizens' concerns: that of security against terrorism and serious crimes, and that of permanent surveillance by States as detailed in the European Security Agenda. That the fight against terrorism and serious crimes is a criterion that can limit fundamental rights is highly controversial; the problem lies in the need and, above all, in the proportionality of restrictions. The development of the PNR can undermine the privacy of citizens; we will be a crystal citizenship, where the State knows many of our personal data. However, after the work of the paper - with the various amendments adopted and the transactions carried out - we recognize that the original text has been improved, since, first of all, as we said in the full debate, we were concerned that the Tax Agency would be registered as the competent authority; now it will only be the Joint Customs Surveillance Directorate, which seems to us to be an improvement. Two, the amendment which we consider particularly relevant is that of Article 11 on the legal regime applicable to the processing of PNR data. It was inadmissible to speak of the transfer of data without any mention of the control of such data by the citizen himself. It now provides for the right of access, rectification, deletion and limitation of such data, as well as for compensation and right to appeal. Three, with regard to article 2, we welcome the fact that not all national routes are monitored, only those explicitly requested and always justifying indications of risk of serious crime. Even so, we continue to think by the Republican Group - as we said in its day - that the definition of serious crime is too broad. Four, as far as the sanctioning regime is concerned, it seems to us to be a good thing that the graduation of sanctions takes into account the impact that access to PNR data may have on the right to privacy, personal data, image and honour. These improvements are as necessary as they are insufficient, so we are going to abstain, because we recognize the good work done, especially by the lawyer, but we cannot agree with a directive which, in our view, is a violation...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u40	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u41	As I say, we recognise the good work done, but we cannot agree with a directive that - in our view - violates fundamental rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u42	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asked for the floor.]] Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u43	Mr President, I am asking for the floor on the basis of Rule 103.1.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u44	And with reference to what in particular, please?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u45	MP Miriam Nogueras has called for the freedom of political prisoners, which is an unacceptable expression and which the legislative power cannot allow for a serious attack on our judicial power. And, secondly, because beyond a brief greeting, which everyone can understand, in a co-official language of some region of this country, has had in his intervention several passages in Catalan without anyone calling it to order. I ask you in the future when you preside, or when any other member of the Bureau does, to call to order any Member who does not speak in the national language, which is contained in our Constitution as the only valid language in this House. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u46	All right, thank you. I give the floor to Mr. Honrubia Hurtado.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group is going to vote in favour of the adoption of this opinion. That is why, first of all, we would like to point out a number of general issues with regard to this law that have already been sufficiently explained here and on which I will not therefore be abounding: that this bill, as has been said, is the result of the transposition of a European directive of 2016, Directive 2016/681, and that the Member States, as has also been said, had until 25 May 2018 for its transposition, and that Spain did not do so; also, that the Spanish State is currently the only Member State of the European Union that has not complied with this legal obligation and that, as a result of this non-compliance, the European Commission has requested that the Court of Justice of the Union impose financial sanctions on Spain, and this sanction can be very expensive for us, just at a time when we are not precisely to waste public money on sanctions. In his speech on 11 July, the Minister himself said that these sanctions could run from EUR 20 000 per day from the time of the end of the deadline until now and, in the event of the judgment being issued, from EUR 90 000 per day thereafter each day of non-compliance. But we would like to remind you that this has one person responsible, who is no other than the Government of the People's Party, who was at the head of the state for the two years since the European institutions gave us the deadline for the transposition of the directive and with a minister, Mr Fernández Díaz, who, when he was not parking his car with the angel Marcelo, was talking to the devil about Catalonia, and, when he was not, he was conspiring through the ill-called patriotic police to attack his political opponents or to destroy evidence that involved his party in the successive and countless cases of corruption in which he was involved, so it seems that with so much mystic and criminal has not had time to push for the transposition of this directive. Ladies and gentlemen, from those dusts of Mr Fernández Díaz, these punishing muds that are so expensive can come out of us, right at the worst time. [[Give it up.]] Therefore, as I have already explained, the adoption of this law is urgent, a law which, on the other hand, despite the complex and delicate nature of the matter to be dealt with, which affects fundamental rights, we understand that it has finally managed to strike a correct balance between the purpose that drives it - the fight against terrorism and organised crime - and the correct protection of our freedoms and rights. The directive itself already contains a number of guarantee measures which have been scrupulously transposed into the law that we are now discussing; for example, the creation of a passenger information unit, whose work will be controlled by a data protection officer who will ensure the correct use of these measures and from which the citizens concerned will be able to request information which they consider appropriate on the processing of their PNR data. The existence of a national control unit, to which the data protection officer may refer his or her claims if he or she believes that the processing of any PNR data would have been carried out unlawfully. Furthermore, the criteria for the collection and evaluation of data cannot be used with discriminatory intentions and therefore shall in no case be based on racial or ethnic origin, political views, religious or philosophical beliefs, union membership, health or life or sexual orientation of the person. Similarly, that requests for data by the competent authorities must be duly reasoned and justified and that those authorities may not take any decision that produces adverse legal effects for a person solely on the basis of automated processing of PNR data. In addition, within six months of its collection, the data will be depersonalized and anonymous, and within five years the data will have to be permanently deleted. However, for greater legal certainty, in our parliamentary group we understood that the rule required an express reference to the rights of passengers as a means of guaranteeing a guaranteed and protective regulation of the rights of citizens in accordance with the existing Spanish data protection legislation itself, which, in our view, is sufficiently guaranteed to give that character to the new law. We therefore proposed, together with the PSOE, during the work in the Commission, the incorporation of an amendment to Article 11(1), which has been incorporated into the text we are discussing today, and which will serve to ensure that the legal regime linked to this regulation includes the protection of passengers' personal data and their rights of access, rectification, deletion, limitation of treatment, compensation and judicial remedy. The rights and freedoms of citizens must always be a priority in these kinds of rules and we have ensured that they are. That is why, although we are fully aware of the use and abuse of the fight against terrorism as an excuse to carry out major cuts in rights and freedoms, and we have denounced it whenever it has been done both in Spain and abroad, we believe that this regulation does not fit in with that use, so we will vote in favour, with the compromise - to say the least - to be vigilant from the very moment of its implementation, as well as to denounce and combat any evidence to the contrary. And, by the way, since we are talking about terrorism, before I finish, I would like to point out how curious and dangerous it seems to me that whenever we talk here about terrorism - and I believe that the various debates that are taking place around this law demonstrate this - let us talk about organizations that are already extinct, such as ETA, or let us talk about jihadist terrorism, but let us forget to talk about what is already one of the main terrorist threats in the whole of the Western countries of the world today: ultra-right terrorism. And I do not say this, says the German Minister of the Interior, that last week he described this kind of terrorism as the greatest threat to the security and democracy of his country today; a terrorism that in recent years has left us with massacres as atrocious as that carried out in 2011 by Anders Breivik in Oslo against young Socialist Youth Party in Norway - seventy-seven dead -, the massacre of 2019 in a mosque in the city of Christchurch in New Zealand -51 dead -, the massacre of El Paso, attack on Hispanic citizens who left twenty-two dead or the attack on foreign population in February of this same year in the German city of Hanau, which left more than a dozen cruel murders. All of them are killed in which the same previous patterns are always observed: hatred, dehumanization and criminalization by the extreme right against certain groups who, after being identified as a threat to our society, eventually end up being victims of these and many other violent attacks. The same patterns and the same poison, yes, that are now trying to inoculate our people for the extreme right, so I suppose that should be the reason why we prefer not to talk about this kind of terrorism in this Congress because, if we ever do so seriously, rigorously and in detail, it will be very easy to conclude that if in this House there is currently a political party that, by its idea, political practice and speech, could be the germ of a future terrorist attack in our country, that is precisely the group that will now come up here to show pictures of victims and call terrorists to others. [[Applauds]] That one and that one. [[Protests.]] Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Sánchez del Real, would you please calm down? Appreciate it. Next, Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u49	With all due respect, Mr. Vice President. In the Presidency, my initial words must be a reproach to this Presidency. You haven't called the spokesman Mrs. Nogueras to order.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u50	Your Honor, one second, please. Mrs Nogueras's subject has already been raised by her spokesman and, moreover, the Presidency is not discussing it. Cinse, please, to the point that you have ordered.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u51	With all due respect, you're wrong. Speeches in Parliament are always addressed to the President, not to the House. [[Give it up.]] Secondly, he has not called the question to the spokesman for Podemos, who has made a crazy digression here.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u52	Your Honor, second and, as the Rules of Procedure state, for the second time I ask you, please, to stick to what you have to pass on to the House. The spokesman for Podemos has not mentioned any political parties in this House and I can refer you to the Journal of Sessions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u53	I don't mean that.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u54	So, please stick to the subject you have to address. Okay? Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u55	Okay. Here, they applaud; in other localities, on the occasion of elections, they throw nuts. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] On the substance of the intervention, which is going to be very brief because it is a transposition of a directive on which there has been some peace in the debates both in the presentation and in the Commission and the opinion has been adopted without major opposition by any group, I would like to mention the perplexity of ours about the wording of Article 2.3 and the amendments to the whole of this article - I think I recall, one from Esquerra and one from Podemos - in relation to the extension of the directive on the transmission of data in the register of passengers in the case of national flights. This causes perplexity, but after hearing the speeches of the spokesmen of such parties not so much, because here they seem to be wrong about the subject of the directive. The directive is ultimately concerned with the adoption of measures directed at the prosecution of terrorist and other serious crimes. So I don't know, do you think it's not possible that there are terrorist crimes or serious crimes on domestic flights? What's this about? What is the basis of this exception? On domestic flights there can be no terrorist offences or serious crimes; on international flights, yes. Well, if anyone gives me an explanation for this that has a minimum of rigor, I'll thank you. [[Give it up.]] We have been in favour of including the transmission of data in that register also for domestic flights, and to that end we made an amendment insisting, as requested by the Council of State's opinion on a previous preliminary draft, on the extraordinary nature of the measure. I should also like to say something about another amendment which we tabled and which at the time was abandoned by us as it was by some other group which had also tabled an amendment in the same direction, about Article 4.2 on the desirability not so much of referring to Annex II to the directive as of listing the offences. In the end these amendments were also inspired by what the Council of State had at the time issued, but in the end we agreed that it was not worth it and that the text as drafted was sufficiently broad and that the principle of criminal legality was not harmful and that it could even collect more crimes. In short, we have nothing to say about this transposition. I think it is worth insisting, after the interventions of some groups. I am referring to Mrs Carvalho, whom I congratulate because you speak very well Spanish but serve you very little, because you say quite a lot of nonsense, all that you can for a second, so I do not know if it has great utility. [[Applauds]] Mrs Carvalho has had a completely careless speech, she has come to say that freedom of expression is being pursued by the courts in Spain. I don't know, this is a bit strange, I don't know judges who are dedicated to pursuing the freedom of expression of anyone; they will be those who know her, but again I would like to know who they are. I suppose if they do, they will have been duly punished and if not denounced. He has also said truly surprising things like that, ultimately, the prosecution of crimes could not involve the repression or limitation of individual rights. Let's see, this lady, frankly, is that I don't know whether she's from Brazil or from planet Mars. Because you don't understand anything. Crimes, if they are, are pursued in accordance with the criminal laws that punish them, and criminal laws when applied routinely carry with them the limitation of rights, of course; one limitation, the most severe, is the deprivation of liberty through the imposition of a penalty. So, what are you surprised about? What are you surprised at? [[Give it up.]] As for the spokesman for Podemos - and I conclude - we have received far-right terrorism. We condemn all terrorist acts. The directive does not distinguish. He has endeavoured here to distinguish between jihadist terrorism, terrorism - I don't know how he described it - as filiation, that of the far right. We condemn everyone. The directive pursues all, it is a rule that seeks to facilitate the persecution and repression of all crimes of terrorism and serious crimes in general. So, frankly, this intervention does not understand what the relationship is with this bill and, if what it has intended is - I do not know - to establish qualitative discrimination between terrorists, he will know what he is doing. I'm not very surprised either. I'm done. Thank you. [[VOX Parliamentary Group applause, standing up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u56	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Rojas García has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u57	With venial, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to this rostrum on behalf of the People's Group to support the opinion of the Internal Commission on the draft organic law on the use of passenger name registration data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crimes. It is true, as has been said here, that the Government's delay in bringing this bill forward is unacceptable. They have been in the Government for two years and have had enough time to do so, but they have not. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight and acknowledge the work of the Committee on the Interior, in general, by the high degree of agreement reached; a consensus that was basically built by the People's Party government when Mr Zoido was minister, who knew how to combine criteria and get us to enjoy the consensus that we have today. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior, Juan Ignacio Zoido, for all his team and also our spokesman for the Interior in Congress, Mrs Ana Vázquez. [[Give it up.]] Ladies and gentlemen, terrorism is a scourge that always lurks and we must be prepared with the best possible instruments, that is, also against the serious crimes listed in Mr Legarda's statement and which brought the directive and now we have incorporated. This law will allow us to create a special unit that has access to information about the displacement of persons persecuted by justice or potential terrorist cells. It is the unit on information about Spanish passengers, the IPU. Data-sharing between countries is essential for our State Security Forces and Corpses to attack and disrupt possible terrorist plans. This rule that we are presenting today in Congress will also be a very valuable tool for the cooperation of the various judicial investigations within the European Union and from the European Union to the rest of the world and, in turn, will make it possible to exchange such data among the intelligence services of many countries and ensure that they are handled responsibly and diligently. Nothing that the data is continuously available to everyone, no, is provided for a system where the information unit does what it does is to handle that data responsibly and diligently to investigate and prosecute those terrorist and serious crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, terrorism knows no borders, and therefore we are going to answer it, so we do with this bill, in the same way, because it will not find terrorism stuck in a cross-border bureaucracy, no, it will find us prevented and prepared to act against it. In this task we are now enabled by a great exchange of data, as well as by a decisive increase in collaboration, as I said, between the different countries of the European Union that have already implemented the directive of origin of this organic law, because the fight against terror has no borders. If terrorists want to use the Internet to expand their poison as jihadism continues to do, we will use the Internet more powerfully and operate a database as never before seen to trap terrorists and end their crazy plans. They will find no leniency, they have and they will find in us hardness, firmness, preparation and responsibility. With this law we send a message to the evil, we will narrow the siege of terrorism; no crime will go unpunished, there will be no laundering of terrorism, and there will be no rest until we catch the criminals and they are tried. Ladies and gentlemen, the threat of terrorism is real and does not rest, but we will overcome it. In the European Union and in the world you already know what the Spaniards are capable of, the same thing that we end up with ETA we will end up with anyone who wants to harm our society, be jihadist terrorism, be organized mafias, any other kind of terrorism, whoever they are; that this is always clear and that there is never any hint of doubt. This is the message we sent to the terrorists, but there is another very important message, ladies and gentlemen: the message to the victims of terrorism, to which we must respect. And watch out for the speeches that are made here by some political groups. Here there is no demagogy or speech of the kind we have seen here; here there is responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, and whoever makes such speeches talking about terrorism with that coldness and with that contempt will be portrayed before Spanish society and the future of Spain. [[Give it up.]] The message to the victims is that we have them in our legislative task, that many days of rain and every day we remember their tears, that sunny days and every day we feel the absence of their loved ones, and that we always share their pain, and there will not be a single day when we do not honor their memory. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, twenty-three years of Miguel Ángel Blanco's vile murder by ETA's terrorist gang were fulfilled; our hero, Miguel Ángel Blanco, and if anyone thinks he can or will erase his legacy from the memory of Spain, his legacy is that he does not know our capacity for resistance. He and many other victims paid with their suffering the roots of our freedom, so today they grow with us, they are part of our own life and we will be reciprocated, very reciprocated against anyone who wants to stain that memory. [[Give it up.]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, today - and I could not fail to mention this - thirty-four years ago ETA murdered twelve agents of the Civil Guard in Madrid, with a car bomb; our memory is also with them, with their families, here we are never to forget them. [[Give it up.]] To the victims of ETA terrorism, to the victims of jihadist terrorism and to all the victims of terrorism, we pay tribute and permanent honour. It touches in Madrid, Barcelona, London, Paris, New York and so many cities of the world; for so long Guipúzcoa, Vizcaya, Álava, Madrid, Navarra and Spain whole and so many families struck by terror must have on their horizon our affection, our work and our seriousness. I want to especially greet Teresa Jiménez-Becerril and Jaime Mateu because they are a reference in our parliamentary group and we want from this rostrum - and I conclude, Mr. President, with your coming - to send a strong hug to the victims of all the brave councillors or public officials who gave their lives for our freedom; to the members of the judiciary who fell into service to the homeland, to the officials, to the forces and security bodies of the State who left their lives serving Spain and the Spaniards and to all the citizens who lost their lives at the hands of the vile and the terrorist synths, all now are living memories for all of us, their names of heroes are inscribed in the greatest pillar of our history. [[Applauds]] We will never forget them and we will always work, and we will always work, that no one has the slightest doubt, for his memory. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[People's Parliamentary Group applause in Congress, standing up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u58	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mrs Botella Gómez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u59	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us submit to the plenary of the House the opinion of the Committee on the Interior on the draft organic law on the use of PNR data for police purposes. I believe that we can now abbreviate a little the long title of our Organic Law transposing the directive, since we have already held the whole session talking about its title. I would like to point out that this opinion which we are presenting today, which we are submitting to the House, was adopted unanimously by all its members on 30 June. Ladies and gentlemen, with this agreement, let us say legislative agreement, it is clear, and this is what I would like to highlight, that when we propose this, we know that we are up to the standards that citizenship requires of us, especially in the area of security. The President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, last June 20 in his appearance on the end of the transition period to a new normality, said a phrase that I think was very inspiring for what has been the meaning of our work in this Commission: The effective, what makes sense at these critical times is to cooperate. And in that spirit of cooperation we have been working and I remain with the positive experience of this whole process and with the institutional normality with which the People's Party and the Socialist Party have shared in their respective stages of government the drafting and operation of this new Organic Law PNR. I am left with the capacity to cooperate and advance the different groups beyond partisan interests, putting forward the needs of the citizenry. It is an important moment - and I am glad to have agreed because I think that was also said by the Basque Group Member, Mikel - because this is the second attempt to deal with this initiative and which fell due to the advance call for elections in March 2019. In the full debate last June I said that the government had fulfilled - I am glad that we have here today also the presence of the Minister of the Interior - and I said this because a great effort was made in very little time to recover that time that had been lost and to set up this initiative that we are well aware of the urgency with which we had to fulfil the European mandate because the directive expired in May 2018, it was just before the motion of censure, and we had opened an information procedure with a possibility of double fine. That is why I would like to have a special reminder for the officials of the Ministry of the Interior and the Secretariat of State for Security. This was Mr Zoido's deputy from the People's Group. I would like to highlight the teams of the ministry, those professional teams that are at the base of the institution, that worked at that time and that have worked with the previous team with all the normality. It is true that there are political guidelines, perhaps those that they had at the time were not of such urgency and ours were of greater pressure because the Government was really very concerned that they would be implemented with that speed. So I would like to have a memory for that staff of the Ministry of the Interior who has also designed a technical operating complex within what is the Citco and the effort they also made to unlock in a short time this bill that was finished, but was also paralyzed before the motion of censure. In honor of the truth, I would like to say that the new government of Pedro Sánchez, dated 20 June 2018, when this government was incorporated, met with eighty-two directives pending transposition, eighty-two of which thirty-one had expired as this one of the PNR. Six months later, the number of directives pending transposition had dropped to sixty-one, of which twenty-two had the deadline expired. I believe that the effort made at that time is also worthy of mention simply in honor of the truth. From March 2019 to January 2020, the parliamentary paralysis that this bill has suffered has obviously been due to the electoral calendar that we have had in this country. Turning to another area, I would like to address the rapporteurs appointed by the parliamentary groups. They are the people who have been working through this time in the processing of the law. We have been very aware of the need to move very urgently forward in the parliamentary process and, therefore, I would like to state, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and especially of the three colleagues who were part of the presentation, our appreciation to all of them for their dedication to this project in not always easy circumstances, because it has fully coincided with the pandemic and the crisis in the COVID. I believe that your work, your amendments and the compromises you have achieved have had a high constructive sense in improving the text of the law, from substantive issues to grammatical aspects and technical improvements; some of the rapporteurs have already referred to this. In this chapter of thanks, of course, I want and must expressly acknowledge the work of the Commission's lawyer, Mrs Rosa Ripollés. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you that, from where we came from and until we reached that unanimity that we achieved in the opinion on 30 June, there has been work to do on approximation and union, as the rapporteurs have rightly pointed out, to achieve that agreement and to ensure that the draft was put out in the best possible conditions. I would remind you briefly that we had an amendment to the entire refund without alternative text of the Plural Parliamentary Group which was rejected in plenary and thirty-one amendments to the joint text, of which sixteen corresponded to the Basque Parliamentary Group, three to the People's Parliamentary Group, two to the VOX Parliamentary Group, eight to the Socialist Parliamentary Group together with the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal and two to the Plural Parliamentary Group. [[EAJPNV]] The position of our parliamentary group - with excellent work that I would also like to highlight by our spokesman for the Interior, David Serrada - has always been to reach the maximum agreement to achieve consistency in the transposition of the directive. The only limit was that there was no deviation from the directive, but incorporating all these improvements. In this respect, we have accepted or negotiated most of the amendments. Today there have been amendments which have been withdrawn because they have been considered to have a logical explanation within the final text. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me now to conclude some final considerations. Much has been said about this dialogue between security and freedom, and we can sum it up in two words: trust and responsibility. We are talking about full confidence in the institutions, in the rule of law that we have given ourselves and in the State Security Forces and Bodies, and we have to demand the highest responsibility from the competent authorities and the system's managers. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. We cannot sit and wait for the future to surprise us. We are parliamentarians committed to our citizens. They have chosen us and we must be proactive in building a safer future for all of them. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. Botella. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-The Vice-President, Elizo Serrano, takes the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u61	We now turn to the agenda item on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions with dossier numbers 110/1 and 110/3 to 110/20. I should like to inform you that the votes on these items will take place at tomorrow's sitting. A five-minute shift is opened for parliamentary groups to set their positions. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u62	Thank you, Madam President. I will be very brief, because we have already discussed, debated and voted on these agreements in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I will only refer to those who pose a problem to us or who we believe will not support. That's three. [[The lady]] I will start with the agreement on the Convention between Spain and the United Kingdom with regard to Gibraltar. We support it in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and when the amendment tabled by the VOX Group was voted on, we have already put forward our position. We believe that fiscal transparency is good and that it is an agreement that can be good for the Gibraltar Field, but we have failed to see that this agreement establishes clear measures to ensure that the Gibraltarian authorities comply with the agreement. In this respect, it seems to us that it could have been much more demanding with the British side, especially in view of their withdrawal from the European Union. We hope that the forthcoming agreements will always be negotiated in the light of the position of cosoveranism, which we very generously believe must be offered in this regard. And this position we are also going to defend in the Brexit presentation. The second agreement on which we will vote against, as I have already announced in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, concerns the transfer of the Grand Cervantes Theatre from Tangier to Morocco. We believe that this Government should guarantee the ownership of this theatre in the event that the terms of the convention are not met. I have read and reread the convention and, although Moncloa has said that if the conditions are not met, it will be reversed again, I do not find those conditions. We therefore believe that this is not a good agreement and that it also sets the precedent for not defending the cultural heritage abroad, which is also a Spanish heritage and we need to defend it clearly. And I am announcing that I am going to put a parliamentary question to ask the Government to detail all the properties that we have in the world in this situation, so that we do not have to give up the property again under conditions that we do not believe are the most favourable. The last agreement in which we are going to abstain, refers to the two allegations of conventions relating to the withdrawal of the United Nations University from the Alliance of Civilizations. We agree with the Government that the economic conditions requested of us by the United Nations cannot be endorsed, but we believe that this is the result of the bad negotiation that took place at the time of Zapatero. It is not a good image for this country, especially when we are trying to bring other international bodies to Spain, to make an agreement and then to stop paying the quotas because that agreement was not well raised. We ask the government that when it now negotiates that the European Cybersecurity Centre should come to Spain, it should do so with fair conditions and that, of course, they should be met. It is not a good precedent for the outside world to let these international venues go, which in some ways represent a reputation for the brand Spain. The rest of us will support you. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u64	Thank you very much, President. Today we are voting on about twenty international agreements and, of course, I do not have time to explain our position on each and every one of them, so I will focus on three issues that my group considers relevant. And I have already announced that we will vote in favour of all the agreements, except one of them. First, several of these international agreements aim to combat tax evasion. From our parliamentary group we welcome all the steps that are being taken in this regard and will support all initiatives aimed at achieving greater fiscal justice. In this sense, as we have already said, we think that there is a task ahead, which is to carry out a tax on the great fortunes. Yesterday we read in the press that billionaires from all over the world were asking the rich to be taxed to get out of this crisis. Unfortunately, there is no Spanish, so I'm going to ask the right-wing bench to do its part and try to convince their millionaire friends that contributing more in difficult times is not just a fairer and faster way out of the crisis, but a question of patriotism. [[Laughter-Applause]] Secondly, with regard to the allegations of the agreements between Spain and the United Nations University, we also regret the fact that we are going to lose the headquarters of an international body in our territory because of the lack of compliance with the financing commitments made by the Government of Spain in its day. This lack of commitment to international organizations with a presence in Spain, reflecting a more than questionable foreign policy, is precisely what we must correct, especially at such a critical time for the multilateral governance system. This has been a missed opportunity to improve our position in the international community, something in which we put so much effort at other times, but when we have the opportunity we lose it, so, in our view, it was a negligence of the People's Party government by not contributing financially to making its stay in Barcelona sustainable. We will vote in favour of the allegations because we understand that this Government is working not to continue along the path of inaction and is trying to settle this matter. Thirdly, I wish to express our abstention from the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Japan, on the other, for a fundamental reason, and it is an agreement that sets out the regulatory framework and prepares for the development of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Japan, the one known as Jefta. The free trade treaties, such as the Jefta, which had been in force for just over a year, deepened a model of trade policy that had been carried out too often without any transparency. These are treaties negotiated almost in secret and without parliamentary participation. From our group we argue that parliaments should be able to develop an appropriate process of analysis, scrutiny and democratic deliberation, as corresponds to a treaty that substantively affects the sovereign powers of the State. We should be able to demand that these treaties meet the necessary labour and environmental standards and ensure that the interests of our citizens are protected. Finally, I would also like to recall the importance of the European Union implementing effective measures to prevent tax, social and environmental dumping, evasion and circumvention of tax payments and data protection rules, measures which, in the end, do not favour such agreements at all. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u65	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. Mr Asarta Cuevas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u66	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. First of all, I will take advantage of my first speech in plenary to express my condolences to the relatives and relatives of all the deceased, all of them, for the COVID and to wish for an early recovery to those who are still overcoming it. Secondly - also because this is my first intervention - I would like to thank the reason why I am at the seat of national sovereignty today, I would like to thank the more than 54 000 citizens of Castellón who trusted in our project; that is why today I have the honour and privilege of addressing all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is wrong to have to start my speech by showing displeasure at the way in which the media and parliamentary affairs have been carried out during this first session, both at the level of the House, since we are in charge of legislation, as well as at the level of the Government; at the level of the Government because there has been an abuse of the decree-laws and the royal decree-laws, with a total of nineteen in this first session, and they are supposed to be for extraordinary and urgent situations, and, secondly, because of the paralysis that the House has had for exactly two months, from 10 March to 9 May, a face-to-face paralysis that has caused the affairs to accumulate behind one another, so that, for example, what we are going to consider today has already been dealt with on 25 June, almost ending the session period, and there were nineteen treaties that were intended to be seen. Only our Committee on Foreign Affairs has had the opportunity to meet three times, none of which for GNP. On the subject of treaties, our group has reviewed them all, and in eighteen of them we have found nothing against our policy. In addition, they are all based on international treaties signed, endorsed by Spain and bilateral treaties. But there is one that deserves our consideration, on which we have already voted against it in the Commission, and here, too, on 3 March, our spokesman tabled amendments, which were rejected by the House, on which there are some matters that we would like to comment. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a tax agreement to protect the financial interests of both the United Kingdom and Spain, which is going to bring with it just three things - let us learn these three words -: whitening, helping and controlling. Blanking a tax haven such as the Gibraltar colony, in which a group of law firms of lanite lawyers is responsible for managing a rather dark financial center that, according to Moneyval - we do not say this, the Council of Europe, with its advice of experts on money laundering and terrorist financing - is a cover for the most indefatigable trafficking crimes; and not only that, but it also shows that there could be terrorist financing. And also help Gibraltar right now. Gibraltar is at a difficult time on the subject of Brexit and this was a unique opportunity for us to end an unusual colonial situation in Europe. Mr Picardo himself, the prime minister, has already said that if Britain did not leave the European Union, he would celebrate it with a 'tajá' all the way up with his Spanish friends, friends you also know well. [[Give it up.]] And finally, to control, to follow the financial movement above all of the Spaniards. But remember that there are more than EUR 1 billion a year because of tax dumping and smuggling. Finally, it is a shame to miss this opportunity to assert the rights of Spain. The Gibraltar colony is in financial straits from which neither the IMF nor the European Union are going to pull it out: the IMF because the colony is not a sovereign State, and the European Union because it is not Community territory. Therefore, the only one that can pull it out is the United Kingdom, but right now, with the Brexit and the subject of COVID, it is not to face and support colonial capitals and deployments. We know that the agreement will go ahead, but at least they demand the opening of talks for Spain to regain territorial integrity. Meanwhile, VOX will fulfil its obligation not to support our nation's longer consenting to this anomalous colonial situation. I'm done. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u67	Thank you, Mr. Asarta. Mrs Martínez Ferro has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u68	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, bring the Government here this afternoon nineteen international conventions, although, for obvious reasons, I will refer only to the three that matter to my parliamentary group, the three most relevant to us. First, the Agreement on Taxation and Protection of Financial Interests between the Kingdom of Spain and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in relation to Gibraltar. As you know, on 4 June I already defended in this House the position that my parliamentary group has always held. We consider Gibraltar a fundamental issue for Spain, a vital issue, a State policy that affects nothing more or less than our territorial integrity, and, as you know, the People's Parliamentary Group takes that very seriously. That day I asked the Government that, since this was the first agreement that Spain signed with the United Kingdom on Gibraltar since 1713 - in particular, yesterday we celebrated the 307 years since the signing of the Treaty of Utrecht - they should inform us about some details. Well, this was last June 4th and since then no one from the government has picked up the glove. They understand that we cannot accept such a disregard, especially as the first group of the opposition and a party with a government vocation. You, gentlemen of the Government, preach a dialogue that you are unable to maintain, although I must admit that you only preach it here in Spanish, because when you speak it in Italian you tell the truth. Nor did they do so during the negotiations in the Commission on the reconstruction plan, the European Union, where they did not try to bring forward positions on this particular issue, since there were a couple of points on Gibraltar. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and members of the Spanish Government who are absent, they have a problem of self-sufficiency, of engulfment and of course of relationship with the truth. They believe that only you have information and, therefore, reason; information may yes, and they also deny it to the rest, but the reason has to be won, you have to work it, you have to fight it and most of the time negotiate it firmly. For my group, therefore, it is very important to ask you not to miss this opportunity in future relations negotiations with Britain to move forward in the recovery of sovereignty, not just fiscal sovereignty; you should not, of course, renounce, and the People's Party will never do, Gibraltar being a part of Spain. It is therefore disheartening that the first treaty signed by the Government with the United Kingdom after 1713 is an agreement establishing a set of administrative and fiscal institutions in the Peñón without a single mention of the importance of restoring our territorial integrity. Don't forget, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the obligation you have with the Campo de Gibraltar, because its good negotiation depends on the future of many frontier workers and a large part of the population of the province. And precisely this agreement that you have concluded consolidates a tax regime that you have fought against by all previous governments; and I say it well: everyone, regardless of their political colour, as it enshrines the existing tax system in Gibraltar, which has grown at the cost of suffocating the Gibraltar Field. They defend the interests of the Spanish citizens of the Campo de Gibraltar and give them good living conditions. The second agreement to which I am going to refer is the protocol between the Kingdom of Spain and the Kingdom of Morocco for the irrevocable donation of the Gran Teatro Cervantes. My group appreciates the adoption of this protocol, which will allow the restoration of the theatre while maintaining the original architecture, with its symbolology and history, as well as the name Gran Teatro Cervantes. This is especially important these days, when we are witnessing an incomprehensible attack on the historical and heritage legacy of Spain abroad. That is why we take the opportunity to ask the Government to make an effort to defend it decisively, as well as to spread the knowledge of our history both outside and inside Spain. We have a great story, which, in order to be able to value, it is better to know first. Thirdly, I would like to refer to the denunciation of the Agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the United Nations University concerning the International Institute of the United Nations University for the Alliance of Civilizations in Barcelona. This Institute of the United Nations University was launched in 2012 with a contribution of 12.4 million euros, which were assumed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Spain and the Ministry of Education, the Generalitat of Catalonia and the City of Barcelona. The leitmotiv, the idea was to make a project in which to move from dealing with the health of citizens to the health of human relations, said Mr Montilla at the time. The works of adequacy of the building cost 9 million euros, making a total investment of 20 million euros for an institute that has worked for eight years. I think it is important to point out here two lessons on this closure: on the one hand, the importance of creating sustainable institutions, and when it is said to be sustainable, is not only because of the good intentions of the objectives, but because of their capacity for financing in the future: this institute closes in Barcelona because Spain cannot guarantee its financial continuity, and, on the other hand, let us learn, gentlemen of the Government, to avoid the proliferation of burdens to the State that are not strictly necessary. Let us avoid making commitments that cannot be fulfilled, let us be realistic and responsible, let us be credible and reliable, because not only our financial sustainability is at stake, but also the external image of Spain, and that my group is very concerned about, and very much. Thank you so much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Gómez de Celis has the floor. I am sorry, for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u70	It could have been worse, president. [[Laughs and applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we have come to validate these international conventions and I will focus on what perhaps the opposition has raised more interest, even relevance, in the words of my predecessor. You know that we have signed this agreement, which is historic and historic because - and it has already been highlighted - it is the first one to be made with the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland since 1713, and with that, ladies and gentlemen, we have definitively deleted Gibraltar from the list of tax havens in Spain, thanks to this agreement we have made Gibraltar an ally to fight tax fraud; we have eliminated Gibraltar from the GPS of the defrauders, the criminals and the corrupt. That is why it is perhaps more incomprehensible, or terribly understandable, that the far right and, painfully, the right also do not approve this agreement; the sustenance and not amend it of the far right, resisting so much to approve this agreement. You shake the flag a lot, but it looks like you want to hide behind it or hide behind it some undesirable people. [[Give it up.]] It is historic the agreement reached by President Pedro Sánchez with the European Union for Brexit, and it is so - and here I would like to address Citizens for the doubts he expressed in the Commission - because Spain's right to decide on any matter, on any issue related to Gibraltar with regard to Europe, remains, and is thus fixed in the European Union. We therefore have a safeguard, a rather important and historic guarantee of the future, as I have said. And it is a pity, as I said, that the People's Party does not support it. It's a shame because we're going to be waiting for the popular party's moderation to arrive. We'll probably stay like Vladimir and Stragon in Waiting for Godot, who never arrived. I believe that moderation to the People's Party will never come, and this is a clear expression, because, painfully and sadly for all of us, you, the right and the right, use Gibraltar, as you use Venezuela, Catalonia or ETA, when things are not right for you. You, lords of the right and the right, look more at the flags than those who carry them in your hands, look more at the flags than at the people who hold them; you care more about the symbolism than probably the people who make, support and carry those flags. Spain will continue firmly and certainly in its historic demands on Gibraltar's sovereignty, Mr. VOX representative; it has never ceased to do so. And the agreement says so, Mrs. PP Spokesman. You said you didn't say anything; yes, the convention does. In its preamble, it clearly states that this agreement has nothing to do with Spain's legitimate rights to continue to claim sovereignty where it has to be done, which is at the United Nations. Therefore, what I ask both of you to do is not to continue looking for that mockery behind which to hide permanently and to leave aside all the dark elements and affairs that the great defrauders of our country, unfortunately, had as one of their objectives in Gibraltar. And we cannot allow discrimination in the social benefits of workers, of people, of people in the Gibraltar Field, because this agreement is also adapted to them, it is also addressed to them. And, of course, it is not only so in the convention, but also in the memorandums, which also incorporate very important benefits for the Gibraltar Field. Ladies and gentlemen of the far right, gentlemen of the right, you do not face the problems, you face the citizens and the nations, and you do so even with some swimmers, sometimes trying to provoke the Gibraltar authorities. We, however, have left these shambles and what we do by signing agreements on fair cooperation against tax fraud, in this case with the United Kingdom. Do yourself a favor: stop looking for excuses and be brave. Say it: they don't care about Gibraltar, they're just trying to wear down the government of their nation, of Spain, and they're doing it by propagating confrontation, division, crispation and hatred. The right path is as thousands of citizens of the Gibraltar Field do daily, cohabiting and living together in Gibraltar and the Gibraltar Field, in Cadiz province, naturally. Thank you very much and see you soon.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. [[Give it up.]] We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you will only be able to vote from your seat, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have already cast the vote by means of the telematic voting procedure cannot do so again from their seats. We voted for the amendment to the full refund of the climate change and energy transition bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: cast, 160 plus 187 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 31 plus 22 telematics votes, 53; against, 129 plus 165 telematics votes, 294.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-14-CD200714.u73	The amendment to the full refund is therefore rejected. [[Give it up.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you, lastly, that the remaining items on the agenda can be voted on by telematics from 20 a.m. today to 12 p.m. tomorrow. The vote on these points will take place at the end of tomorrow's sitting. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was seven and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon.
