ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Today we begin another plenary session by reminding those who continue to work for the health and safety of all to thank them, on behalf of all citizens, for their irreplaceable task. Also, as we are still in a state of state of alarm and health emergency, we again express our regret for those who have died as a result of the pandemic and our condolences to their relatives and relatives, keeping a minute of silence in their memory. [[The ladies and gentlemen present in the Chamber, stood up, kept a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u2	Thank you very much. We begin with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u3	Mr. Sanchez, you've already completed your descalation. Its phase 1 was in February and January, that of the concealment of the alerts when the hecatombe was seen coming, as the coroner said yesterday in that investigation that has unleashed a purge in the Civil Guard, but that it should cost the office to his prosecutor, his minister and his delegate. Its phase 2 was that of March and April, that of incompetence with the masks and false tests and the chaotic single command for which it will have to be held accountable in a commission of inquiry. And phase 3 was that of May and June, the abuse of the state of alarm to control the network, to threaten the press, to take the CNI and the CIS, also Enagas, the CNMC and plug into high-ranking positions. And so it has come to its old normality, which is to oppose the opposition. That, meanwhile, says that Trump and Johnson's opposition are doing very well to criticize them, but here who does not praise Sanchez, crispa. Even if it has the worst number of deaths per capita in the world - by the way, why don't they collect the 16 000 more dead than the Carlos III Institute and the INE say?-, or even if it has the worst economic management, as the Banco de España aggravated yesterday with a 15% drop in GDP or a massive unemployment of 25%. You think that's how we come out stronger, Mr. Sanchez? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u4	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thankfully, Mr. Married, that you were going to moderate yourself, that you were going to focus on the People's Party during these weeks. I think we need to get some lessons out of this pandemic. The first is that we are right when we are united; together the institutions, all the parliamentary groups and the whole of Spanish citizenship we have defeated the virus. And I think that you have erred during these weeks by joining the far right, creating the front of no to everything, opposing any consideration and using the virus precisely to bring down a government legitimately and democratically voted by the Spanish citizens. [[rumors]] That's what you've done over the last few weeks. Therefore, Mr. Married, I ask you a question. Now that we are all called to social and economic reconstruction, will you persevere in provocation and scorn? [[Rumors.-Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u6	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u7	Or is it going to take the path of unity, which is precisely what the citizens demand from all the politicians we are here? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u8	Mr. White Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u9	That question will have to be answered by you. Mr Sánchez, since the motion of censure, I have offered you a dozen state covenants that you have rejected. The last time I went to Moncloa - on February 17 - I reached out to him if he broke with Batasuns and independenceists, but he has recovered the table by self-determination and has agreed with Bildu to repeal the labor reform. After supporting you for two months the state of alarm, without asking for anything change and receiving all the criticisms and insults from your bench, you have not even valued the four agreements we have offered you. The first, the Cajal Pact for Health, within the parliamentary committee, which I proposed to you, in line with the Toledo Pact for Pensions. The second, a committee in the Senate, which yesterday was again offered to coordinate social policies for autonomous competition in European aid. The third, the economic recovery plan, as Germany has done, lowering taxes by EUR 20 billion, which is just how much you wasted on the electoral decrees. Remember how the cigarette ends up in the fable. And the last, an office of care for the victims: health care, for the sick; psychological care, for the relatives, and recognition, for the deceased. If you do not appreciate these very necessary proposals today, it will be very clear to all of Spain that it is you and your partners who spread the poison of confrontation to all Spaniards. We left the antidote here today. It's up to you, the ball is on your roof. Thank you very much. [[One Member: Very well!- Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u10	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u11	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Thank you, Madam President. I believe that Spain, the European Union and the world as a whole have faced the greatest pandemic, the greatest health emergency over the last hundred years - a hundred years, Mr Casado -. What has the government done? On the issue of the health emergency, what he has done has been to use a constitutional instrument - the state of alarm - which has saved 450,000 lives. I am not saying it, they are saying it independent scientific studies, which say that as a result of that confinement 450,000 lives have been saved. We have lost the lives of more than 27,000 compatriots, but we have saved the lives of 450 000 people. In the economic and social spheres, there are minimum living income, also ERTE and ICO lines to ensure liquidity for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and self-employed workers. In short, that is what the Government has done. What has the opposition done, Your Honor? What have you done these weeks? What have the citizens seen these weeks? I will tell you, what you have seen is a right and an ultra-right creating a common front to make a legitimate and democratically elected government go astray. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u12	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u13	That is what you have done, to use the virus precisely to overthrow the Government of Spain. And you know what the result was? A great failure, the government is standing, ruling, legislative, and the question that you will have to resolve over the next few months is what path you will take, Mr Casado, to the one of pride or unity. If you take the one from the unit, here is the government; if you continue to brag, there you have the far right. [[Prolonged applause]] - OF THE DEVELOPED FRENCH BAL DONE, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DO YOU THINK THE GOVERNMENT IS HELPING TO GENERATE A POLITICAL CLIMUM OF UNDERSTANDING? [[File number 180/000200]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u14	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u15	Mr Sánchez, do you believe that the Spaniards deserve this climate of confrontation and rift that we have in national politics? Is the Government of Spain going to do something to lower the tone instead of accentuating it?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u16	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. Do we want understanding from the government? Of course I do. Are we going to do everything we can to achieve that understanding? We'll do everything we can and more, Your Honor. In addition, I believe that your group has witnessed that will of understanding during these weeks, reaching agreements that I believe are good for the whole of Spanish citizenship. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u18	Mr. French Ball.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u19	Mr Sánchez, as you always remind us, you are the President of the Government, you are responsible for all government policy, you are responsible for leading a policy of constructive moderation and state pacts. But it seems that his Government does not heed him, he is dismissed. I am referring, for example, to its Vice-President Iglesias, that nothing less than the Commission on Reconstruction is staging a show and accusing a parliamentary group of coups, or that at some other time it says that an autonomous community behaves in a criminal way, or that it goes up to the rostrum to offend members of the opposition; or Minister Garzón, who says that the Armed Forces are wishing to strike a coup d'état or that he says about the tourism sector - falling into an absolute crisis - that does not bring added value; or Minister Marlaska - for what to speak - the one that has linked in the State Security Forces and Bodies and in particular in the Civil Guard; or Mrs Lastra and Mr Simancas, who blame the management of the pandemic to the Community of Madrid. You're not going to call them to order, you're not going to tell them anything, you're not going to lower your government's tone? Because look, consensus is achieved by talking, by reaching out to those who think differently. And it is true that in this House there are groups that are very comfortable in that trench war, but you have the responsibility. There are countries in our environment - Portugal, Germany or Greece - that have affected this crisis in a more satisfactory way than the Spanish Government. How did they do it? With consensus, speaking to the opposition. In Spain we have achieved this in environments other than those in this House, such as the City of Granada, Castile-La Mancha, Castile and León, Aragon or the European Parliament. Are we doomed to civil war, to anger, to trench politics? Inés Arrimadas more than two months ago offered him these state pacts for reconstruction, lending a demanding hand to the Government, but giving him the support of my parliamentary group for the good solutions for the Spaniards. I would like to appeal to your responsibility as President of the Government to stop the ideological, sectarian and partisan battles, to think big, to work for the Spaniards, for the families, for the autonomous, for everyone, for the workers. That will be the new normality, that will be the new policy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u20	Thank you, Mr. Bal. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, can we do more? I am convinced that we can do more; we can certainly do much more. It is also true that from the government we have proposed a parliamentary commission for social and economic reconstruction, which we have already - I think I recall - held fourteen conferences of presidents, while throughout the history of our democracy and our Constitution only six conferences of presidents had been held in more than forty years. There is therefore also an effort for this interinstitutional agreement. We have done the same with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. This has also been done by all ministries in the field; ultimately, inter-territorial sectoral conferences have been held with the leaders of the autonomous governments. We have promoted social dialogue, we have reached agreements with employers and trade unions to extend the ERTE that is maintaining and sustaining the incomes of 31% of the employed population in our country. In short, I believe that we have made an effort to reach consensus, to agree, to reduce tension, to appeal to unity among all. That has been the will of the Government of Spain and, of course, is the will shown in this House. What else can we do? No doubt we can do more. At the beginning of the state of alarm, I proposed that once the health emergency in this House was over, a committee should be set up to evaluate the COVID-19 to have a constructive debate, to know exactly what we need to improve on our public health system and what measures we need to provide in our productive sector to self-supply material, which clearly in a pandemic such as that we have suffered has been insufficient as a result of our dependence on third countries. Of course, we, Your Honor, will continue to be accountable to you in the Congress of Deputies, and we will certainly also try to ensure that these issues that have generated much debate over the last few weeks in the Congress of Deputies - I am referring to material shortages and deficits in our public health system - are resolved in that Committee on the Evaluation of COVID-19 which I propose to this House. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - of Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus, of the parliamentary group EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, which expresses to the Lord President of the Government: Is it committed not to make appeals? [[File number 180/000192]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u22	Question by Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u23	Mr Sánchez, today I ask you the question that virtually all citizens are asking themselves: will you make public and social cuts? Will you apply the austerity recipes and cuts that hurt people so much in 2008? I ask you for clarity in your answer, not for us, but because citizenship deserves clarity and that they tell you the truth. That is why I ask you directly and clearly: Are you committed not to making cuts?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u24	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor, for your question. Indeed, citizens deserve clarity and the truth, and therefore the debates that need to be raised in this House must be contextualised. The Government of Spain has proposed that the response to this crisis must be a positive, sustainable and inclusive response. That is the approach taken by the Spanish Government both in Europe and in our country. Now, if you're asking me if there's going to be cuts or there's going to be cuts, what I'm asking you is this, Your Honor. What has to be there are countercyclical policies that respond to the cycle in reverse. That is, when there is an economic crisis, what we have to do is to debt, to spend more, because we have to protect many sectors as we are doing, but, of course, situations with a deficit of 10% of gross domestic product will have to cut them in the future. And how do we have to cut it? Firstly, by spreading growth and, secondly, by reforming taxation so that there is greater fiscal justice than there has been now, and obviously there will be - let us hope - policies that will logically be reduced due to greater job creation. Consequently, we will not have to provide so much protection to unemployment because there will be a reduction in the unemployment rate in our country. In short, ladies and gentlemen, if we have to do that approach, that economic policy debate, we are open, but let us do it seriously, rigorously, and being very aware that this is a government committed to a positive response to the crisis from the point of view of social inclusion, as we have done, for example, with minimum vital income, or also from the point of view of sustainability, as we are doing during these last Councils of Ministers, with the adoption of draft laws as important as that of climate change, the circular economy strategy, or even yesterday with the adoption, for example, of a strengthening of CO2 emission markets, which is also something that commits our Government to this adaptation and to this mitigation of climate change. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u26	Mrs. Aizpurua Arzallus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u27	Mr Sánchez, I have asked you for clarity and you have not given it to me at all. You and your Government have consistently stated in this Chamber that in this crisis it would not happen as in 2008, that it would not be betting on the same prescriptions and that citizenship would not be allowed to pay the consequences once again, but at the same time it is already aimed at an adjustment plan - understand cuts - to satisfy Europe, which would lead to an increase in the retirement age or greater defencelessness for workers, with more precariousness, lower wages and redundancies. Again, making the usual pay. And I ask you again, is the government thinking about this, Mr. Sánchez? Because, if today it is not clear and does not make a commitment to this House and to society not to make cuts or adjustment plans harmful to the life of the working and social majority, we will understand that these cuts are on their table. Mr Sánchez, we have already told you many times, if you intend to cut back on citizenship rights, you will not have the progressive majority in this House, not ours at least. Either the interests and benefits of a few, or the rights and well-being of many; choose you. Because it must already take the necessary decisions so that the social and economic shield that its Government praises so much and that we consider positive is not a temporary one, not a timely response to an emergency situation, but the basis for securing, developing and expanding that shield. If he does, we'll meet. If you bet on the cuts, don't hesitate, you'll have us in front of you, because, if it's up to us, we're not going to allow citizens to pay back this crisis either in our country or in this state. We are clear that this time, this time yes, the crisis must be paid by the rich and the capital, the rest has paid extra, Mr Sánchez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u28	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I think the debate is a different one. That is a debate in part, it is a debate that is best interested in the parliamentary question that you want to ask in a pre-election period in the Basque Country. I believe that the debate here is that this crisis has accelerated changes that we already saw in digitisation, in the ecological transition, in job creation, in the sustainability of our welfare state, in the creation of public policies, such as minimum living income. Those are the issues on which the Government is responding positively to a crisis that has accelerated changes that we knew were coming and that deadlines have been shortened, for example in the area of education or, for example, in the area of labour regulation of teleworking. That is where the government is going to be, Your Honor, and that is where I would like to find the majority of this House. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Cayetana ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: HOW FULL DO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE THE TRUTH? [[File number 180/000195]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u30	Question addressed to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Cayetana Álvarez of Toledo Peralta-Ramos of the People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Mrs Calvo, a week ago, instead of answering me, you addressed the leader of the opposition and almost shouted at him: '... what are you doing, Mr. Married? What are they doing against the government...? What are you guys up to? Tell it to the Spaniards.' That is, you joined your colleagues by pouring toxic innuendos on the involvement of the People's Party in an alleged conspiracy to overthrow the government. His words are in the Diario de Sesiones, in history not always exemplary of Spanish parliamentaryism, and that to you puts it from the moral and political point of view. Mrs Calvo, or you dare to say that the People's Party is involved in a coup d'état and – eye! – proves it or you admit, logically blushing in the face, the truth. Say before this House: no, that ghostly coup d'état is an evil bull whose sole purpose is to camouflage the government's responsibility in the death of thousands and thousands of Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u31	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Let me show you something that I think we all feel here, the joy of seeing much more populated already this House. Your Honor, I will strictly comply with the Rules of Procedure. You ask me what degree of commitment this government has to the truth. Well, look, you and I - both public offices, though differently - in the exercise of our positions we have no commitment to the truth, we have an obligation to the truth. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u33	Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: It is a commitment that you fail every day of your lives, and today you have done it there. You have to answer me today. You have insinuated that the People's Party supports a coup d'état. A coup d'état. Are you aware of what you've said? Words weigh, have value, are the fiber of democracy, and you despise it. I'll tell you three things. One, you are part of a vulgar camouflage operation resulting from terminal desperation. To cover up your lethal management of the virus, today in the courts, you are spreading another virus, the lie of a Spain condemned to civil war and involution. Two, its bubble has reached such proportions that the Minister of Defence has had to ratify the commitment of the Armed and Security Forces to the Constitution. There is no greater offense to the dignity of the military and agents and to the general intelligence of the Spanish, although it is true that with their insidiaries rather than degrade us to others they degrade themselves. And three, in a week you have separated the loyal Perez from the Cobos and helped the disloyal Trapero. The first, through an illegal decision by still Minister Marlaska - who I don't know what he's doing in his seat yet - and the second, through an immoral use of the Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, Mrs Calvo, the question is not what we are in, but what you are in. I will tell you without insinuations and with the endorsement of the facts: you walk in the same way that you made Mr Sánchez president and with the same; you walk legitimizing and consenting to the coup - they do - while you outrage the Democrats. That's what they're doing, and that's what they're limping about. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u34	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, this is the second time he has addressed Minister Marlaska directly and personally. I will tell you why you are sitting there: because the legitimate and constitutional president of Spain is sitting here and it is he who appoints and who ceases. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, I return to the Rules of Procedure of this House to answer your question about the truth. Do you remember that comedy that was titled Why do they call it love when they mean sex?Is that what you're talking about? Why do you come here to speak for real when you have done - and you do every day legitimately - to manifest your truths, your ideological position, your strategy? Why is it constantly entangled with this kind of self-proclaimed moral and ethical superiority in politics? Because this is the real problem. Look, in democracy and in the rule of law, the only uncontested truth is the enforcement of the laws, of all, and all below the law, powers and citizens; the only uncontested truth. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u36	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u37	But, as you have asked an interesting question, and I come here every Wednesday with the expectation that your debate with me will also be productive and interesting, and you have asked an encyclopedic, philosophical, political and legally speaking question, coming from the opposition to the government, have a coffee with me a couple of hours ahead, accept it. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE LORD SECOND SECOND AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: DOES THE SECOND SECOND SECOND SECOND SECOND THAT THEIR INITIATIVES WILL PROVIDE THE ECONOMIC RECONSTRUCTION OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/000196]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u38	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Churches, why don't you answer the questions? I don't want you to invite me to coffee, just answer the questions. Because it either embarrasses you or it doesn't matter what we ask you. You said something. Do you still think rotating doors are a form of corruption? We don't know what you think of Podemos; we know that at least there is one, which is the one you have placed, which is in favor of rotating doors. But what do you think? Because you're a lousy vice president, but you've been shown to be a good friend. You'll now understand the anger of people who don't charge ERTE at home, but you do see how your friend collects from that revolving door. Therefore, Mr. Iglesias, do you consider that your initiatives will promote the economic reconstruction of Spain or only that of the members of your party? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u40	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr García Aegean, you have asked two questions. The answer to the first is yes. As for the answer to the second one, it will be helpful for me to read something that someone who has little suspicion of socialcommunism, such as a spokesman for the International Monetary Fund, has said about minimum living income - what you called Paguita -: On the question of the new minimum living income, the strong measures of the Spanish Government to protect the incomes of vulnerable people during the current crisis are greatly welcomed by the International Monetary Fund. Ensuring adequate protection for the most vulnerable households is particularly crucial, and the implementation of a targeted minimum income programme is an important contribution to expanding the social protection network in Spain, especially at this time. Do you know what it means for the IMF to say this? [[Rumors]] That it is a transversal, social and international consensus that must be responded, as the President said, to a crisis situation such as this with countercyclical policies. And you know what your problem is? That this social and international consensus is proof of their political defeat and, therefore, they shout; therefore, they lie, and, therefore, they patale, Your Honor. And if you want, we'll have a coffee. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u42	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u43	You are the vice president of Social Rights, and the first social right that the Spaniards have is that their rulers do not laugh at them in the face, as you do every Wednesday. [[Applauds]] You assumed sole command of senior residences, that is, the only one in charge of this matter. [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u44	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u45	Could you tell me a specific decision you have made on the protection of our elders? One, because we know that it has given you time to occupy a chair in the CNI, to appoint ninety-two advisors to your finger, and to insult President Married and those who have really saved lives in this pandemic and have anticipated all of you, who are the autonomous presidents of the People's Party. But something concrete, because now, surely, you will strive to make one of these numbers of yours. Mr. Churches, what is this so serious that happened on March 8th that you want to cover up? What's so bad that they have to pressure the judiciary? [[Shows a press clipping of El Mundo newspaper]] Mr Iglesias and Mr Sánchez, what do you have to moderate and focus pressure the judges from the government. You and Mr. Sánchez are accusing the Civil Guard of a lack of rigour; you and Mr. Sánchez, those of the fake tests, those of the fake masks; you, who don't know or tell our dead. I know, Mr. Iglesias, that you are not going to answer me, and I know why, and it is because when you have achieved the chair you no longer hurt people's suffering. You're a Podemos campaigner, and in the government we're seeing a monk named Mr. Sánchez. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u46	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. García Aegean, that you lie is not a novelty, but that you do it at the levels at which you are doing it, when it comes to the lives of thousands of elderly people in this country, is something deplorable even for you. [[rumors]] You have brought arguments, data and cuts from the newspaper El Mundo; I will simply read the Order of the Ministry of Health of 23 March on the residences of elderly people : 'The competent authority of the autonomous community is empowered, depending on the epidemic and care situation of each residential center or specific territory... to intervene the residential centers.... Residential centers... are subject to the inspection of the health services of the respective autonomous community'. [[rumors]] [[Rumors]] You had the indecency, when the order was published in which Mrs Ayuso prohibited the hospitals from receiving the elderly from the centres of elders, from denying the existence of that order, and she had to get Mrs Ayuso's counselor to say that she had a digital signature and to say - Mrs Ayuso's counselor - that order, Mr García Aegean, was illegal and immoral. How little shame, Your Honor! [[Prolonged applause.- Rumours]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA CARVALHO DANTAS, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT THINK OF CONSIDERING AS TERRORIST TO ANTIPHACIST MOVEMENT? [[File number 180/00205]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u48	Questions to the Minister for Justice. Question by María Carvalho Dantas, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u49	Thank you very much, President. Does the Spanish Government consider the anti-fascist movement a terrorist? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, thank you for your question, although I am going to be honest with you, I do not understand it. But I will tell you one thing, the Government of Spain does not criminalize any ideological movement. Moreover, he faithfully believes in ideological freedom as one of the foundations and pillars of the State. The designation of a terrorist must be carried out by the courts of that country. Terrorism in its most common sense, such as subverting the constitutional order by illegitimate means, by violent means, is a matter for the courts of justice. Therefore, no instance of the Government can carry out such a rating. Whatever your question is, the answer is a no-fly. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u52	Mrs. Carvalho Dantas.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u53	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, President. I am asking this basically because in May this year the UN Secretary-General said that the pandemic continues to unleash a wave of hatred and xenophobia and that countries around the world must strengthen the immunity of our societies from the hate virus. Minister, I would like to bring back the memory of Lucrecia Pérez, an immigrant who was murdered at the end of 1992. It was the first hate crime committed, tried and sentenced in the Spanish State; it opened its eyes to society, it was a racist crime. Felipe Carlos Martín was his killer and was a civilian guard. A year later, Minister, it is also very good to remember that Guillem Agulló, a young antifascist, was stabbed by a neo-Nazi, Pedro Cuevas, in Valencia. After explaining these two murders, racist and fascist, it is important to say that after the death of the fascist dictator Francisco Franco, a new generation of young anti-fascists and also a generation of new fascists had emerged in the Spanish State. Are you, gentlemen of the government, able to see that Francoism still arouses enthusiasm and that the Spanish Fascist tradition joins the wave of new Fascist groups in Europe and the rest of the world? Are you able to see the relationship between racist and fascist behaviors: do you continue to beat up, raid, torture, kill in Lavapiés, in the Rambla de Barcelona, on the southern border and in many parts of the Spanish state? We antifascists fight this, we fight antifascists. Do you think it was terrorism to fight the fascist uprising of the 36th, for example? We are concerned to know, for example, if the United States requests extradition of someone...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho, your time is up. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I'm going to give you a thought. I humbly believe that this government has demonstrated in what goes from the legislature a great dose of tolerance, of institutional loyalty and - here I will emphasize - patience or, rather, a lot of patience. I'd invite you to read the Journal of Sessions to see the barbarities it collects, and I'm just talking about this forum. Twelve years ago we experienced a crisis of social pyramid and the most fragile parts suffered the most. We were recovering and a new crisis is coming in, where our social model breaks; a health crisis with huge economic costs, but what they really determine is a constituent crisis. We have to tackle the exit from it among all of us. It is not easy, it is not easy because, alongside the constituent crisis, we also have a constituent debate and we have to do so among all of us, we cannot leave anyone out. Therefore, ideological freedom and freedom of expression are basic pillars to which we have to bind ourselves as masts in the midst of a storm, because this does not consist in calibrating whether there is more applause or more cacerolate, in what consists of the ideas underlying and what they want to impose. A joint reading is needed - because, as I was saying, this is not a pyramidal crisis, this is a chained social crisis - we all need all of us and we have to contribute among all of us to leaving a better society than we have found. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY AND PUBLIC FUNCTION, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CREATE THAT HAS PROTECTED THE FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS OF CITIZENSHIP WITHOUT THE STATE OF ALARM? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00202]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u56	Question by Mikel Legarda Uriarte, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] Mr. Legarda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u57	Thank you very much, President, and good morning, Minister. We ask you whether you consider that the Government has sufficiently protected the rights of citizens during the state of alarm.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u58	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u59	Thank you, President. Mr. Legarda, thank you very much for your question. As you are well aware, the rule of law states make up the functioning of their institutions both in times of normality and in times of convulsion or serious anomalies, and these emergencies can only be covered in our legal system with alarm, exception or site. The alarm is the instrument, in the face of, among other circumstances, a pandemic. I will therefore tell you that declaring it, declaring that state of alarm has served to protect our fundamental rights and freedoms, to certainly protect public health and to regulate essential services and not to fail any of us. But I tell you one thing: it has served to contain the virus and, above all, to save the lives of thousands of people. That is why I say to you: yes, a strong yes, this government has ensured the fundamental rights of citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u60	Mr. Legarda Uriarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. We do not doubt that Spain is a full democracy, we believe it is, nor that a balance has been struck between health requirements, as you said, economic and social requirements and respect for rights and freedoms in general. However, and on the contrary, we believe that the Government has not respected the right of citizens to know and ask and the corresponding obligation of the Government to respond, a right that links with the democratic principle, with the right to participation in public affairs, with the right to receive truthful information and, ultimately, with the principle of accountability. The Government has told us that the transparency portal has been open and functioning, and this is only a half-truth, because it has only been open to active Government publicity, not to respond to requests for information, which are precisely formulated on matters that are not answered in the active Government publicity because they are not normally beneficial to the Government. The Government has also told us that the questions of citizenship have not been answered because the administrative deadlines were suspended, and they were suspended to guarantee and protect their rights. However, the suspension could have been lifted, as some ministries did to collect levies and taxes. We believe that citizens are protected by giving them the information they request, not denying it. Minister, the health crisis is not a crisis of transparency. We believe that it was a serious mistake that could have avoided the unjustified suspension of the right of citizens to public information, when the very opposite was the simplest, since it was requests, processing and telematics responses, and when it was the most consistent with extreme control measures in an exorbitant situation for the Executive and to counter false noises and news. Minister, that is why we ask you whether transparency for the government has not been a priority and why transparency has been confined during the state of alarm. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u62	Thank you, Mr. Legarda. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u63	I thank him for his intervention and, I think, today we need to place more emphasis on his tone, a constructive tone that marks a new way of doing politics in which we should all make our best efforts, because it is important that we be able to add from the differences. I think it is a moment, as I said in the previous question, to look up. The pandemic has taken us back to our homes, we could say that the pandemic has been an experience, but I don't think it would be fair to say so. The pandemic has caused us to experience, such as that transformative element of individuals and society. That's why we have to deal with the old problems with new solutions, we have to raise that look that said, and here we all need each other. Of course, the Government has done an enormous exercise in parliamentary control, in answering questions, in the weekly attendance of the Minister of Health to inform and do so daily before the media. I believe that the exercise of transparency has been absolutely exhausting. It may not have been enough, but I tell you one thing: what citizenship is asking of us right now in the CIS surveys, 90% of respondents, is that it is not about getting out winners and losers, but cohesive, because we all need it here. Therefore, if we are not able to banish insult and arrogance from the political debate and decide to contribute, it will be wrong for us. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DOING: WHAT TAXES ARE VALUING THE GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/00207]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u64	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance. Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I've been asking you this for three weeks now and you don't seem to want to answer, so I'm going to ask you more specifically. Will the government raise the IRPF to Spanish workers, yes or no? Is the government going to raise the corporation tax, yes or no? Will social contributions tax job creation rise again, yes or no? Can the self-employed be calm knowing that their contributions are not going to rise, yes or no? Are you going to have to pay the inheritance and donation tax again on the net worth of the Spaniards, yes or no? Are they going to push for a new green tax with the excuse of green transition, yes or no? Are they going to create a diesel tax, which is serious for Spanish industry, yes or no? Are you going to create new taxes on air tickets, yes or no? Are they going to invent a new COVID rate, yes or no? Minister, what taxes does the government intend to raise to the Spanish?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u66	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Espinosa, I have been replying to this question. I think that is the fourth question you ask me on this subject, and I will tell you very clearly: this government is not going to raise taxes either to the middle class or to the working class. The tax proposal is in this House, with some tax figures and the draft budgets that were presented and finally did not come out, which contains the fiscal policy that the government is going to develop. I repeat, we are not going to raise taxes to the middle class or to the working class. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u68	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u69	Thank you very much. For the fourth consecutive week, you do not answer very specific questions, because I have not asked you about what you consider to be a middle class, I have asked you about very specific taxes, because those you call a middle class are precisely those you will then charge with more taxes, and you have always done so. Besides, in the last few weeks every time I ask you about this, you bring us some adanist answers, a little imported from that world of Podemos, who think they've invented everything. Before you there were taxes, before you there were finance ministers. In Spain there are finance ministers since 1705, from Philip V. What happens is that there have been more moderate finance ministers; to quote some recent one, Mr Solbes or Mrs Salgado, both from his own party. Those ministers, compared to what we have today, seem very moderate, but what you are doing, with what you are threatening precisely when the president has spoken of countercyclical policies is exactly the opposite. At the time of history when the Spaniards are worse, at the time of the greatest economic crisis in history, at the worst time of liquidity, partly because of the epidemic, partly because of its management of the crisis, you are threatening with new rates, with new taxes. Today you bring one, it is not the worst, but you are constantly threatening the growth of the Spanish economy, you are threatening the Spanish workers. And what I ask of you, Minister, and all the members of the government is to return to the path of moderation, to return to the traditional path of the Socialist Party. We have heard here this week two socialist ministers from previous governments who, compared to you, are much more moderate. They go back that way, and they do not let themselves be dragged away by radicals, such as the Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u70	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Espinosa, I am not going to find myself in the personal attacks either on the members of this Government or on the Members of my parliamentary group, they will not find us responding to those personal attacks. I tell you very clearly, I have told you during these days, you defend a model of society, you make a defense of the taxation of those gentlemen you represent and who manifest themselves in convertibles and golf clubs. [[Rumors]] We defend something else, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, we defend a model of society in which, at least for health, for education, for policies that allow us to be stronger in situations of vulnerability, we have the capacity to defend ourselves as a collective, as a citizen, as with that minimum vital income that you do not like and that you have been denouncing in recent weeks. Mr Espinosa, I believe that if there is one that represents a threat, as you said, it is the position of VOX, from which you are constantly making an incitement to confrontation, to hatred, to try to face different collectives and different territories in the whole of Spain. That is what the citizenry is really worried about, which is staggering at the statements you make. But, Mr Espinosa, I have always told you that I am not entirely concerned about that position of VOX. I am concerned about the position of the People's Party. And I'm worried that you said, for example, about gay pride, that that manifestation left a bad smell, or something like that. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon shows a tablet with the text: 'Please stick to the question. Thank you.]] And yesterday Mr. Maroto replied that Spain smells like 8-M. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what does it mean that Spain smells like 8-M? What do we smell like women for? [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Beatriz ÁLVAREZ FANJUL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT STEPS DOES THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR HAVE PROVIDED TO PROVIDE IN HIS DRAFT REMODELATION OF CIVIL GUARD? [[File number 180/000197]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u72	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Beatriz Álvarez Fanjul of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Mrs ÁLVAREZ FANJUL: Thank you, President. Minister, less than 24 hours ago we were able to hear in Moncloa from the vice-president of your government himself about the demilitarization of the Civil Guard. Could you explain what you mean by that? What implications does demilitarization have on your Civil Guard remodeling project? When your Government talks about remodeling the Civil Guard, it is not very clear to me whether it refers to political cessations so that they are not investigated, whether it refers to beating up members of the security forces, as Pablo Iglesias himself said, or whether it refers to scorning them by calling them patriotic police, as his president says. Please, just give me one version, don't lie to me, don't mime with your president, because you're going to end up telling me more versions than Minister Ábalos in Barajas. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u73	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mrs Alvarez, I am sorry again that the question is not on the agenda. But I have no objection to answering him. First of all, I must point out that I am not surprised, either, by falsehoods, by the theories of conspiracy, by trying to patrimonize the institutions that the People's Party normally carried out. And that is a logical consequence of his mismanagement, of the contempt of the Ministry of the Interior itself during his seven years of government. In that connection, let me tell you a question, because I am answering the question you have just referred to me. The Organic Law 11/2007, on Civil Guard Rights and Duties, explains this, and is a substantial step forward in the exercise of the rights and freedoms of all members of the Civil Guard, is indeed an important milestone in the acquisition and assumption of rights by the Civil Guard. And what does this represent? That something so important for the Civil Guard, which is part of its spirit, of its 176 years of history, as is military nature, is no obstacle to the possible and necessary assumption of rights and freedoms. And we will continue to work to ensure that the professional and personal rights and freedoms of the Civil Guard are increased, within, of course, its military nature, which is not discussed by this Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u75	Mrs. Alvarez Fanjul. Mrs ÁLVAREZ FANJUL: Mr.Marlaska, the contempt of the Ministry of the Interior has a name and surname, called GrandeMarlaska. On numerous occasions you have spoken of respect for the Civil Guard. But how can you ask for respect from the Civil Guard when not one, but up to three colonels have rejected your name in place of Colonel Perez of the Cobos because they consider it a disgrace? Even the deputy operational director, Laurentino Ceña, has preferred to resign from betraying the principles of the Civil Guard and the rule of law that you intend to break. Minister, is it necessary to know the truth, as has happened to us with Minister Irene Montero, on the basis of off the records, that the Civil Guard was impartially, neutrally and professionally carrying out its duty, investigating the criminal negligence of your Government, while you were using the Attorney General's Office to cover them up? Because, of course, who does the Attorney General depend on, Mr. Marlaska? As you shouted on March 8th - remember?-: don't kiss!, don't kiss!, apply the story: the reports of the Judicial Police don't touch, don't touch. Minister, I am not going to ask you to resign, because if, after all you have done, you have not resigned, you will not do so because you are asked by a Member of Parliament, but do yourself a favor... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Alvarez. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Alvarez, of you, who proclaim so much the separation of powers, division, the rule of law, Montesquieu, you have already handed down judgment in I do not know how many questions today in less than two and a half minutes. Let each judiciary dictate its own. I will remind you, with regard to the patriotic police you are talking about, that in this House in 2017 a Commission on this subject indicated a partisan use by your party, by the People's Party, of resources, troops and means of the Ministry of the Interior. We, during the two years we have been in the government, in this new coalition government, try to restore prestige to the Ministry of the Interior, and enjoy the best, with more than 170,000 men and women, who, for the most part, are authentic... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u78	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena Olona Choclan, of the Parliamentary Group VOX, which FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT DOES SHE BASE TO ACKNOWLEDG THE COLONEL PEREZ OF THE COSTS OF BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FILTRATION OF POLITICAL REPORTS TO THE MEDIA OF COMMUNICATION? [[File number 180/00208]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u79	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclan, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u80	Thank you, President. Minister, good morning. You're cornered and your lies don't hold up. It is now in a permanent flight forward. Today, just two weeks ago, I asked him five simple questions related to the dismissal of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos. You kept a cowardly silence. Today, unlike two weeks ago, what we have is documentary certainty of what was then a moral conviction and, in my case, an early knowledge of the answers I was asking you. You lied, minister, you lied. And I told him he was going to fall for his subordinates. And it is precisely your subordinate, the Director General, who has made it clear that you were lying in the successive versions that you have been giving us. The reality, minister, is that you lied when you called for a supposed restructuring of trust teams to justify the dismissal of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos. And he lied miserably when he justified this cessation in an alleged involvement of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos in leaking police reports to the media. Minister, what is the basis for making these statements? What is the basis for accusing Colonel Pérez de los Cobos of this alleged crime? What evidence do you have to keep those slanders? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u81	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Olona, you have just made a very serious accusation. This Minister of the Interior knows what the differences and powers of each state power are and has not made any criminal charges against any person, first, because it does not belong to him and, second, because it would be a temerity. You, on the other hand, bring here falsehoods and impute, and nothing happens. In that regard, bear in mind that you are also a lawyer and that you must be careful in the use and use of law and law. What I said and referred to is the seriousness of an event that had occurred in a secret court case, which was the leaking of police reports. And you know that filtration is very serious, first of all, because it goes against the principle of presumption of innocence; secondly, because it lends itself to parallel trials concerned, which you are very much given, to give judgment beforehand, and not to let the courts process the proceedings properly; thirdly, because it is also a crime, of course, to leak and reveal secrets and must be investigated from the very beginning, and, lastly, because it goes against, of course, the principles of every rule of law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u83	Mrs. Olona Choclán.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u84	Thank you, President. Minister, you come back here again so you don't say anything at all. His words are empty of content. But reality will come out, minister, after cloned computers, as you are doing right now in the Judicial Police unit. I assure you the truth will come out. There are two images that show your degradation, minister: one of 2001, when you are one of the six magistrates wearing the coffin of José María Lidon, vilely murdered by ETA, and another of the year 2019, last December, when you were one of the ministers who applauded precisely the proletarian heirs in this House. [[shows a photograph]] [[shows another photograph]] The reality that hides the dismissal of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos, such as that of Colonel Sánchez Corbí, as the removal of the Civil Guard from the Office of Coordination and Studies is that you deeply hate the Civil Guard, and the origin of that hatred, minister, is twenty years ago in Bilbao. I ask you to come up with the truth and tell your president, the Socialist Party, everyone here in this House, what happened 20 years ago in Bilbao, how they had to remind you that the fight against ETA is not compatible with cowardice, and what you did, or rather that you stopped doing as a magistrate to prevent certain information from coming out into the open. [[Applauds]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u85	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Olona, I did not think that I would have to act in this way or say what I am going to say in this House, but there are obviously limits to everything. Be brave enough, if you are, to say what I did or stopped doing, because whoever speaks to you and who you know and wears, of course, that coffin with my colleague José María Liron, killed vilely by the terrorist organization ETA, is the same one standing here in front of you; it is the same one that has been threatened by the terrorist organization ETA, it is the same one that has been the object of two frustrated attacks by the terrorist organization ETA. [[applause]] He is the first one who, because of the specific circumstances of his profession, not for any personal interest, pride or pride, but for being where he was, worked to defeat, within the rule of law, the terrorist organization ETA; and that as Minister of the Interior he continues to work to ensure that all the crimes of the terrorist organization ETA are evidently revealed, as well as their perpetrators, and that he continues to work for all the victims of the terrorist organization ETA. And I only ask one thing: be brave enough, because, look, I have been free long ago from the dictatorship of the other's gaze but also from the silences. [[Rumors.-Extended applause]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT LAURA BORRÀS CASTANYER, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT DOING, AFTER I WANT HEALTH TO RECOGNIZE THE EXISTENCE OF A BAD CALLED 'POLICY', DECIDED TO FIND DELIENTS AND PERFORM ADVERSARY? [[File number 180/00201]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u87	Question by Mrs Borràs Castanyer, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. On June 3, right here, President Pedro Sánchez referred to a bad so-called political police. This Sunday I also recognized the dubious reliability of the reports prepared by the Civil Guard, they said at a press conference, and I quote: I would like the reports of the Civil Guard to be prepared with guarantees and confidentiality. And he recalled that for two years there has been an investigation in the courts into the fraudulent use by the previous Administration of a 'para police'. It's his words. He added that if there is a minister who has collaborated in the transmission of data on this matter it was you. That is why we ask you, Minister: What is the government doing after the disturbing discovery of the existence of a political police dedicated to covering up crimes and prosecuting opponents? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u89	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Borràs, sorry to turn your back on you. Allow me to clarify this first because this House, as I said earlier, has already recognised in points 3 and 4 of the 2017 opinion of the Committee of Inquiry, where my colleague the Minister of the Interior had a specific intervention as a parliamentarian - and I open quotes -: The unacceptable partisan use of the forces, means and resources of the Department of the Interior - close quotes -. Something that obviously, as we have seen today, does not like to listen to the Popular Group nor does it like to listen to its partner VOX. To give you an answer, Your Honor, since June 2018, when we took possession and I am Minister of the Interior, the Ministry is working on the modernization of security policies, on the improvement of the working and remunerative conditions of our men and women and on the recovery - this is the important thing - of the prestige of the entire Ministry of the Interior. You know how? With management teams defined, in any case, for their professional prestige and guided always by an action of neutrality, professionalism and unequivocal commitment to the rule of law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u91	Mrs. Borràs Castanyer.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u92	Thank you, Minister. The truth is that the knowledge of facts such as those described should lead the Government of any State that wishes to call itself democratic to promote as many measures as necessary to investigate, clarify the facts - all facts -, determine who the persons involved were and, if so, make a corresponding complaint. However, there has been little transparency so far in the cleaning of sewers that you denied a year ago, although you added that measures had been taken. I announce that we have already registered a non-law proposal to investigate and denounce State abuses by the Ministry of the Interior since 2012, because since the Socialist Party has been in the Government for more than two years now, it is not known that the Ministry of the Interior has reported to the Office of the Prosecutor on irregularities, nor is it known that responsibilities have been cleared. It is not enough to modernize the State Security Forces and Bodies. Are they going to check all the causes or are they going to leave them as they are? It was about time they recognized the existence of this patriotic police and these false reports of the Civil Guard - some, unfortunately, know what we talked about since we have been suffering them for years - the pity is that you had to wait for the victims to have been yourself, but work because there are indications that there is also a patriotic prosecution and a patriotic justice. Don't wait to be the ones affected. As the poet Ponç Pons says: [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u93	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Borràs, as I mean, the very fact of the parliamentary committee to which I have previously referred, the fact of all judicial proceedings in this regard on improper practices - I repeat, a minimum within the scope of the action of our State Security Forces and Bodies, to which I again give thanks and tribute - indicates that we are in a state of law. Since we are in the Government, I say it again, we have undergone a renewal of both policies and teams and always guided towards one of the best security policies. We have not gone to a purge, as VOX or Citizens say, and also the People's Group, but we have not maintained the structures, as some other groups say, even theirs. We will continue to work to create the necessary groups for precise security policies, which we are also addressing with exemplary criteria, I say again, professionalism and neutrality so that, obviously, no events that should not have occurred are repeated. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u95	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONIO GONZALEZ TEROL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WHAT CRITERIA GUIDE THE NAME POLICY IN THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA? [[File number 180/000198]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u96	Question to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mr Antonio González Terol, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u97	Thank you, President. Mr Iglesias, although you are leaving, please review the data: the Community of Madrid is one of the autonomous communities that has the lowest percentage of elderly people who have died in residences; the one that has the most is a community of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Mr Ábalos, I will read you two quotes: I will bet on a new work model in which meritocracy prevails and not plug-in. Sitting on a board of directors like that of the electrics, operating on the rotating doors, that's right, that's betrayal of Spain. These words are not of any member of the People's Party, they are of the President of the Government and of the Vice-President of the Government of Spain. A government, his own, which today is no example of transparency, of management or of democratic regeneration. They have placed an advisor to Podemos and two former ministers on the Board of Directors of Enagas. Minister, are these rotating doors? And an advisor to Moncloa, president of the CNMC. And you, Mr. Minister, placed your driver and bodyguard on the Renfe Neighborhoods Board of Directors. Finally, from the BOE we have learned that the new Director General of Agenda Urbana is Mr Sánchez's best friend of childhood. What are the criteria of this government for appointing senior officials, Minister? Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u98	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u99	Thank you, Madam President. The criteria that guide the appointment policy of this ministry, as it cannot be otherwise, are those that mark the law, namely Law 40/2015 of 1 October 2015 on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector. There's the origin. [[Applause.-Rumores.-A honourable Member: You can't talk.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u100	Mr. González Terol.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u101	Minister, there is a credit to the new Director General of Agenda Urbana and he is the only Spaniard whom Sánchez has not lied to. He promised him on a television programme that he would register it and the mastodontic army of 260 high offices, 45% higher than the last government of the People's Party, at the cost of 78 million euros in salaries, 28% more cost than the last government of the People's Party, turning this government into the champion of the toll and waste; but the worrying thing is that they are doing so by creating a general leadership without content, excepting it from the status of official and also doing so in full state of alarm, when it has been vacant for four months. And you know it's the most troubling thing about this case? That he's not the only one. Sixty-six members of the Socialist Party have been appointed high-ranking officials since 2018: Tezanos in the CIS, Juan Manuel Serrano, the former chief of staff of Sánchez, in Correos, and so many others who join, together with thirty directors-general excepted from the status of official, 150% more times than the government of Mariano Rajoy and 172% more than the government of Zapatero. Where's Sanchez's so clumsy meritocracy? I say it to you: in the same place as your promises not to agree with Bildu, with Esquerra or with Podemos. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u102	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u103	Thank you, Madam President. The Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has eleven directorates-general, of which only one is exceptional. The rest, the other ten, are officials. When I entered the ministry this direction was excepted. Moreover, in the period of Mariano Rajoy's government, of the three Directors General of Housing, two were exempted and the only one who was an official had to resign because he was charged with the illegal sale, when he was a member of the Community of Madrid, of almost three thousand dwellings. [[Mr González Terol shows a graph]] I understand that that must have been a merit in naming him, selling him and getting rid of social housing. He was the only official; the other two were not, so I shouldn't miss this. [[Mr González Terol shows another graph]] You should know that the United Nations established an urban agenda as a result of the Sustainable Development Goals and that from there Europe promoted the Urban Agenda Strategy and mandated Member States to do the same. Thus, the previous Government approved the Spanish Urban Agenda Strategy. From there, someone had to cover this area and it was thought that what was convenient was that ministry that had to do with some of those issues. Therefore, this general direction does what it does is to assume the strategy approved by the Government, in that case also assume powers now exercised by the Ministry of Finance, which have to do with the European funds for urban development, which we did not yet have, the powers of architecture and 1.5% cultural. I'm saying it for your information. But I wonder why you ask me this question that has nothing to do with this competition. Because he knows a lot about urbanism. You come from the epicenter of the Gürtel case, where your general plan was declared null. [[Applauds]] You do know about urbanism. And I'll tell you two things, but just so you don't mind... [[Rumors.- Mr González Terol points to the Socialist Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u105	... so that you go with something to your municipality, so that it makes sense your political representation and something can tell your representatives: On Saturday the contract tender for the viability of the proximity to your municipality was published. Take something home, man! [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JUAN FRANCISCO SERRANO MARTINEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD: HOW DOES THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD THE CURRENT SITUATION OF OLIVAR AND THE PROSPECTS OF THE NEXT COUNTRY 2020/2021? [[File number 180/000193]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u106	Question to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Question by Mr Juan Francisco Serrano Martínez, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, a ruler is credible to the extent that the facts accompany the words and that is why the People's Party cannot look into the eyes of the men and women who dedicate their hands, energy and effort to the olive oil sector. Because during the bad years of the People's Party government, the olive grove was breached, the CAP was mismanaged and the farmers were misrepresented. Whenever the People's Party rules in Spain, Spain always loses funds from the CAP. And who pays the consequences? Small and medium-sized farmers. [[Strong Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u108	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u109	If they told half the truths. They told half truths, because it is not - never was - a priority for the People's Party the olive grove. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u110	I pray silently.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u111	And they left those who produce more than 50% of the world's production to one side, to the olive sector. That is why, Minister, it is certain and we are satisfied with the management and planning of the government... [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u112	Mr. Congressman, wait a minute, please. I ask respect for the person who has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Go on, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u113	Thank you, Madam President. That is why, Minister, we are satisfied with the management and planning of the government in the short, medium and long term with an intelligent olive grove strategy. Olive groves are an essential part of the economy, biodiversity, vertebration and territorial cohesion of our country and also of my province, the province of Jaén, with its eighty-six million olive trees. The situation caused by the coronavirus, the downward trend in pre-pandemic prices and the need for a fair price to maintain olive growers' incomes have led this government to take serious steps with a very clear priority: maintaining incomes and improving the competitiveness of olive oil in the world. Allow me to reflect, Minister, that in my opinion it is essential - and you know it well - and that it is the honest assessment of your management in favour of traditional olive groves; yes, the olive grove that the People's Party forgot when it ruled. It is a courageous bet that you have made, that the ministry has made, for the viability of the traditional olive grove. As you well know, that has very positive consequences for our country. For this reason, today the traditional olive grove has a government that is complicit and that helps to bring it forward, it has an ally that is the Government of Spain. That is why, Minister, you can look into the eyes of olive growers, because you have done a courageous job. In this regard, Minister, how does the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food see the current situation of olive groves and the prospects for the next 2020-2021 campaign? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u114	Thank you, Mr Serrano. Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u115	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, thank you very much for your question. I fully share your reflection. Indeed, this is a government that acts in a sector in which we are world leaders in quantity and quality. But you don't just have to say it, you have to do it. We have had a 2018-2019 campaign with a record harvest of 1 800 000 tonnes, we have then had a lower 2019-2020 campaign, 37% lower, and all this has produced a structural mismatch dragged from behind between supply and demand and, clearly, a fall in prices that do not pay just to olive growers; especially, as you very well pointed out, to traditional olive growers, to those small olive growers who not only exploit the land and give us a good product, but also maintain the social fabric and environment of our land and, therefore, are so important. That is why I have met in the last few days with the whole sector, four months before the start of the next campaign. I have met with agri-food cooperatives in Spain, with the agricultural professional organisations, with the interprofessional, with industry, with the millers, with the exporters, with the olive grove sector and also with the table olive sector to jointly establish ten measures. It is a powerful package of supply, quality, traceability and promotion management that the Government will take forward to ensure that this sector has a present and a future, that it has it and that it is optimistic. We will work jointly with the autonomous communities and with all the actors - with cooperatives, which have two thirds of the sector's volume, and also with the interprofessional - to design these measures and carry them forward, with the support of the European Union and with the design of the future CAP 2021-2027, in order to make this sector profitable and to have an economic, social and environmental future. This is the aim of this Government, which is concerned about farmers, farmers and fishermen, which is concerned about all those who give us sufficient food in quantity and quality and of which we are very proud. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF MR CARLOS GARCIA ADANERO, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHEN IS THE GOVERNMENT PROVIDED TO WITHDRAW THE RESOURCES OF INCONSTITUTIONALITY, PROMOTED BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT, AGAINST ARTICLE 2 OF FORAL LAW 21/2019, OF 4 APRIL, AMENDMENT AND UPDATE OF THE COMPILATION OF THE FORAL CIVIL RIGHT OF NAVARRA OR FOR NEW? [[File number 180/00203]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u116	Question to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. Question by Mr Carlos García Adanero, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, when does the Government of Spain intend to withdraw the application of unconstitutionality to the Criminal Law that regulates the Navarro Civil Code or the Fuero Nuevo?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u118	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr García, understanding and dialogue for this government of progress is fundamental; in a decentralized state, if it is possible, even more, but you will also understand that the principle of legality is the fundamental vector that also governs the action of this and any government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u120	Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the investiture debate Mr Sánchez said that he respected the Foral Regime, that he was a supporter of the Foral Regime and that he defended the Foral Regime. He went to say that and make us tremble. Then what did he do? To agree with those parties which have as their political objective that Navarra disappear as a differentiated political community with their own institutions within the unity of Spain and then the first action of the Council of Ministers was to appeal to the Constitutional Court to the Foral Law that regulates Navarro Civil Law, the Fuero Nuevo. And I don't think they've understood anything. After a few months of a parliamentary group asking you a similar or almost the same question as I am asking you in this House, you answered the same thing, and you are not aware that this is not a matter of talking or not talking, but that this is a question of respect. It is that Navarra Civil Law is an exclusive competence of the Navarra Civil Law Community and that we were a kingdom a hundred and eighty years ago. It is that to the Navarro Civil Law no one, no government - and there have been governments of all kinds and we have passed everything - no one has dared to question it, because it is part of the fundamental essence of Navarra and its institutions. You have not understood anything; this is not a question of giving up something or of us reaching an agreement, which is not, that the Parliament of Navarre unanimously adopted Navarro's civil law, which is exclusive competence and is very clear in the Constitution. Therefore, you, who are so filled with the word that you talk to people, I want to tell you that it is not a matter of talking, but of respect. They respect the Navarra institutions, they respect the old history of the old Kingdom of Navarre, they respect Navarra Civil Law, they respect the Navarras, they respect the Navarras and they respect the institutions. We are a loyal community with Spain, but we demand respect and the Sánchez government is not respecting us. They therefore respect, respect and respect the Foral Community of Navarre. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u122	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, when you talk about it, what do you mean? Lack of respect for the Spanish Constitution? In the absence of respect for Article 149, which provides for the division of jurisdiction? Does that lack of respect mean anything? I don't think so, Your Honor. In the year 2019, in April, the New Outing Law was published and passed. From there negotiations were established because there was an invitation to dialogue to reach an agreement, and in the eighteen points that questioned the dubious constitutionality of the agreement, in nine an agreement was reached. That dialogue has therefore begun and we continue to do so. In fact, in my first Council of Ministers, which I attended, we had no doubt to bring the appeal, because the procedural deadline was 16 January, and I made a sad start with this appeal. I spoke to President Chivite, as I always do when we, in this case, Your Honor, filed an appeal for unconstitutionality, I did and we continue to work on the agreement. Of course I do! But also in respect of constitutionality, because the State Advocate's reports say that there are possible violations in terms of the organization and registration of public instruments, that there is potential violation in terms of rules for resolving conflicts of law and that there is potential violation in terms of the basis of contractual obligations. [[Denials of Mr García Adanero]] That is the legal reality. By the way, reports from the lawyer we owe ourselves to. And this minister is absolutely respectful because, if we did the opposite, what would happen or what would we hear in this House after all we are hearing? So, Your Honor, don't talk to me about respect. [[Mr García Adanero speaks words that are not perceived]] No, no, you're missing me because you're constantly questioning me and I've listened to you. Don't tell me about respect when you don't have it for me. In this House, apart from a little courtesy, a little education is required and I miss it, I miss it in this House. [[Applauds]] I'm not asking you for courtesy anymore, I'm asking you for education. This Government will continue to work. I have already told you, of the eighteen points, in nine, let's say, there is legal controversy. We will continue to work, although it is true that these three months of pandemic have resulted in a halt because the procedural deadlines were also suspended. Therefore, Your Honor, we will continue to work from the utmost respect. Of course I do, but so much respect... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u124	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARGARITE PROHENS RIGO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY: WHY DID YOU ANIMATE THOUSANDS OF WOMEN TO PARTICIPATE IN THE DemonstratIONS OF 8 MARCH WHEN - SECOND WE KNOW NOW - DID YOU KNOW THE HIGH RISK OF ACCOUNTING THAT HE SUBJECT? [[File number 180/000199]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u125	Question addressed to the Minister for Equality. Question by Mrs Margarita Prohens Rigo, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u126	Thank you, President. To speak of corruption, gentlemen of the government, look at your bench. The PSOE of Simancas, with 1 million euros of illegal financing. Lessons, none. [[A Member: Very well!-Rumors.-Applause.]] Minister, you couldn't tell, you couldn't tell. On 25 February, there was a high suspicion that the country was heading for a health care facility. On 2 March the European Union called for the avoidance of concentrations. Italy, Korea, and Japan suspend the acts of 8-M. On 8 March there were 589 cases and 17 deaths in Spain and, yes, also football matches and political acts and no restrictions on mobility because the data were then confidential, right? But on March 9 they give way to suspend concentrations and schools. Since when did you handle this information? Why did you encourage women to attend 8-M? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u127	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u128	Thank you, President. Mrs Prohens, all your statements, from the first to the last, are a lie. So, out of respect for this House, I would ask you to resume your speaking time to tell some truth, even if you do not have it prepared in your papers. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u129	Mrs. Prohens Rigo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u130	Thank you, President. If it's all a lie, Minister, why are they obstructing the judicial investigation? When did you see that social distance was key to avoiding contagion? Do you know what a feminist would have been? Share this with the rest of the women so that we could choose - as you did - whether with your hand or not and if you don't kiss. Nothing less feminist than confusing criticism of her incompetence with criticism of all women and the feminist movement. You're not feminism, Mrs. Montero, you're the authority that hid the women that 8-M were in danger. Don't confuse, feminism is not guilty; you, yes. [[Rumors]] You and I went to the same demonstration in defense of women and equality, but you and I didn't have the same information. You played the Russian roulette with thousands of women, even those with whom we are at risk. An anti-feminist government. What feminism is yours that silences under guardianship, women with disabilities, rural women, discrimination against footballers or the absence of a co-responsibility plan? What solidarity do you have when you have three or four tests, while the health care providers in this country have none? Long live equality, Mrs. Montero! And live the governments that don't lie! And live the women who care about other women, even if they get the picture on it! [[Rumors]] [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u131	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u132	Thank you, President. Look, I make my own the words of the President of the Government. It is clear that all of Spain and all of Europe are late, not in the first week of March, but surely in mid-February, when experts now know what they did not know then and that the virus was already spreading. [[Mr. Guijarro García: Don't shut up; you can't listen]] And we were late, as I say, because we didn't know it either in Spain or in Europe, where they also happened... [[Rumors.-Mr. Guijarro utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u133	Quiet, please! [[Mr. Guijarro García: Let her talk, man!]] Mr. Guijarro, please be quiet. [[Mr Guijarro García continues to speak words that are not perceived]] Mr. Guijarro, please be quiet. Minister of Equality, continue.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u134	Thank you... [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u135	Quiet, please. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Mr Guijarro is absolutely right. It's a shame.-Laughter.-Protests.]] Quiet, please! Quiet! [[The protests continue.-Mr. Guijarro García: Hour and a half listening to them!]] [[A Member: More education, more education!-Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, let's continue with the monitoring session. I pray silently to you all.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u136	Thank you, President. I was telling you, Mrs Prohens, that I came and went to the mobilisation on 8 March - just like you, and you said it in your speech - because the rights that you and I enjoy are a consequence of the mobilization and the struggle of women in mobilizations such as that of 8 March, such as divorce or as abortion. Moreover, during this crisis curiously every day, every day it was March 8th, because it has been women who have been at the forefront in the professions that have been revealed essential, the sanitary, the cleaning, the domestic workers. And it has been women who have burdened the burden of care that has involved this crisis in families. [[Applauds]] That is why, Your Honor, it is so important that this Government and this House make feminist policies that you have not supported in this House. To this House this government has brought the declaration of essential services of all that has to do with the comprehensive care of victims of macho violence and you have not supported it. To this House, the Government of Spain has brought a vital minimum income that allows thousands of women to leave poverty and exclusion and you have called it Paguita, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] And the problem is that they are the main opposition party and do not have a single proposal. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u137	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u138	I would understand you coming here to talk to us about right-wing things and say: listen, to get out of the crisis, you need a tax amnesty for the rich, you need cuts, you need privatizations... [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u139	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u140	And we could discuss it, Your Honor, but they don't have a single proposal. [[Rumors]] You criminalize on March 8 saying that feminist mobilizations bring death; I tell you, Your Honor, that feminist mobilizations what they bring are survivors of macho violence, survivors of sticky soil. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] And here will be this government to continue defending feminism! Watch - they are very busy with 8 March - Mrs Ayuso, who has forbidden the transfer of the elderly to hospitals. Watch out! [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u141	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THAT HAS TAKEN THE MEASURES NEEDED TO REACTIVATE TOURISM IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/00206]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u142	Question to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mrs Patricia Rueda Perelló, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u143	Thank you. Does the Government consider that it has taken the necessary measures to reactivate tourism in Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u144	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u145	Thank you, President. Mrs Rueda, you will share with me that tourism is one of the sectors most affected by the health crisis. In order to reactivate tourism, it was first necessary to protect it in order to avoid the closure of businesses and the loss of employment. And I have to tell you that this government acted quickly and decisively, and this has made it possible to maintain nearly a million jobs in the tourism sector thanks to the ERTE and to finance more than EUR 10.5 billion through the ICO line. In addition, 262,000 self-employed tourism and hospitality workers are benefiting from the cessation benefit. Now, Mrs. Rueda, as we move towards new normality, the Government is working to revive safe tourism. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u146	Mrs. Rueda Perello.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ERTE that have not yet been charged, ICO that does not arrive. The sector quantifies losses of billions of euros. Representatives of hotels and tourist accommodation, travel agencies, hoteliers, rent a car, shops, transport, many autonomous ask for urgent measures to get out of the crisis that has taken them these three months of closure. And these measures do not arrive or arrive late, and the Government does not put forward a clear plan to reactivate tourism, which creates uncertainty. Last Thursday you stated that land borders would be opened and hours later the Government rectified. On 23 April, the Isste was commissioned by protocol guides and Portugal already had its security stamp on 24 April. On those dates we talk about safe broker Germany-Austria, and here nothing. Portugal, Greece, Croatia are promoted as COVID-free tourist destinations and here while Germany vetoes us recommending not to travel to Spain. On May 15, quarantine is imposed for tourists. The sector sees it as lost in June and, moreover, France and Belgium, among other countries, impose it on us. And they close borders because, according to El País, Sánchez said that openness put health improvement at risk, but Mr Sánchez does not see risks in the multi-faceted acts of 8-M or in those held in favor of ETA prisoners, he sees no risk in his harmful management, which leads to the closure of businesses, the destruction of employment and the loss of leadership in tourism. Minister, remind Sánchez - who is not -, Vice-President Iglesias - who is not - and Garzón of the value of tourism. Tourism in previous crises has been one of the engines for the recovery of the sector, it is the main sector in which almost 3 million people are employed. Listen when we ask you for fewer barriers and doubles between administrations, less taxes, which is what VOX always defends, and which coincides with what the sector demands. Thousands of businesses and self-employed people are threatened by their survival. Take into account the sector's requests, read all the initiatives we have registered. And, Minister, please, employment and liquidity, let us protect Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u148	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u149	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Rueda, employment and liquidity have been the measures that you voted against in this Parliament, so let us start talking about employment and liquidity. [[Applauds]] Look, I was telling you that from the government we have worked tirelessly to protect the tourism sector, businesses, workers and now we are working to relaunch tourism activity. Spain currently has protocols adapted to 21 tourist activities to ensure that Spain is a safe destination, not only for visitors, but also for workers and, of course, for residents of the territories that host them. The aim, Your Honor, is to regain confidence and credibility as a safe destination, because otherwise, Your Honor, there will be no revival of tourism. And we are developing, as you know, a promotional campaign with the slogan 'Spain is waiting for you' to encourage national and international tourism. All these and other measures that we are working on within an ambitious plan to support the sector, a plan that aims not only to mitigate the effects of COVID but also to respond to the challenges facing the tourism sector in an area, for example, such as climate change. This is an effort in which we must all work together, companies, workers, public administrations and political forces. Because, Your Honor, the prestige of Spain as a tourist destination depends on everyone, it also depends on you, even if it is more comfortable to disagree, isn't it, Mrs. Rueda? If so many patriots, if so many defenders of Spain claim to be, stick together, Mrs. Rueda, instead of subtracting. Spain has a fortress, you have said, a professional tourism sector which this Government has protected, Your Honor, despite you. Let's move forward, Your Honor, because Spain is a great country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u150	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the railway policy of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, after the end of the health emergency of COVID-19.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u151	Thank you very much, Madam President. The health emergency of COVID-19 has severely impeded the normal development of citizen life and administrations must make decisions to accommodate their priorities, forecasts and actions after overcoming the effects of the pandemic. Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, the railway is the most sustainable transport and the one that receives the greatest attention from the European Union, and the most important today for Asturias, whose incommunicado status by land, sea and air is one of the basic factors that puts us at the tail of Spain in rates of population growth, economic growth, job creation, tourism development and industry. Allow me, Mr. Ábalos, the next preamble. While his ministry rescues tolls in the territories of Spain that are politically more interesting to the PSOE, he excludes that of the AP-6 between Villalba and Adanero and forgets his irresponsible promise to gladly remove the toll from the Huerna. Asturias is the only region of the cantabrian facade without motorway of the sea with Europe, for the benefit of the autonomous communities bordering Galicia and Cantabria. The airport of Asturias beats two regrettable records: the one that has the least national links and admissions and the one that offers the most expensive tickets in Spain. With this not encouraging scenario, I go up to this rostrum to explain different aspects related to railway communications, which are a basic factor of localization to overcome the isolation that penalizes competitiveness and to promote job creation. Asturias is at the head of rail incommunicado in Spain and Europe, as reflected in official indicators, hence the urgent need for the application of remedies to ensure that the improvement of quality, the renovation of equipment, the modernization of the train, instead of its dismantling, the completion of infrastructures that have been prolonging for many years and, ultimately, the agreement to comply with the specific agreements and plans committed are a reality within the shortest possible time. I would like to raise a number of questions for which I would like to ask your attention, Minister, in view of the fact that the state of alarm which has been in force since 14 March has not been stopped so that decisions have been announced on railway matters, with which the Socialists return to their actions to the detriment of the Asturians. I will begin by referring to an endless action, that of the underground in Langreo for the integration of the railway line Gijón-Laviana, works that began in 2009 after the project was included at the beginning of the century by the first government of the PP within the Plan of Coal Mining. It was Mr Rodríguez Zapatero who came to the Presidency and the work that was going to last thirty-six months began to go through many budgetary vicissitudes. They have been paralysed since 2017, waiting to sign a new agreement between the concerned administrations, the fourth in the series, which is key to be able to complete the execution of the project, which, in any case, will hardly be able to enter into service before 2023, quadrupling the initially estimated time frame. The affected langreans have been suffering from all kinds of problems of safety, cleanliness and discomfort, as well as impatience. In Avilés they are also waiting for progress to be made in the removal of the tracks with their underground in parallel with the ria and the creation of a train and bus terminal. This project, raised by his predecessor in the ministry, is also a pressing need, which has to be combined in parallel with the resolution of another deficiency for the Avilesinos, such as the North Round to get the heavy and dangerous traffic out of the city center. Ladies and gentlemen, a unique case, it would be said that only in the matter of railway integrations in urban plots, is that of Gijón, promoted by the government of the PP, then presided over by José María Aznar, and signed in the home of an extraordinary Spaniard, Jovellanos, whose figure, by the way, is evoked in the roof of this Chamber. It was that great agreement, signed in September 2002, by the three administrations, Renfe and FEVE, to achieve railway integration in the city with centrality and intermodality as essential references. However, and since then, as long as the PSOE has had the opportunity to put sticks on the wheels of the only serious project in the vicinity, known as metrotren, it has not wasted the opportunity. Mr Ábalos, a year ago, on an election visit, you proclaimed in Gijón the following: In ten months we have solved what was not solved in seventeen years. Now, however, the pandemic period has gone ahead with the consensus and the socialists, unilaterally, have broken the very broad political and social agreement reached in the city, and they want us to go back to the exit box to move away from the future station by placing it in the environment of Moreda, shredding one of the key elements of any great European station, centrality. Gijón does not happen anywhere in the world; because of the socialist decisions it has today a chamizo station, baptized as provisional, that has frightened since its inauguration in 2011 three million railway users; for thirteen years a tunnel of almost 4 km without use and flooded; and now, contrary to what is done throughout Europe, they want to distance the future terminal station from the urban center. In addition to paralysing, with the most varied pretexts, the commissioning of metrotrain and its tunnel, built to bring the railway closer to the citizens with several underground stations, to capture travelers, to vertebrate the territory, to improve the mobility, to solve the disaster of the vicinity by uniting the centres of Oviedo and Gijón, the university campuses, and to remove the surface traffic of the most polluted area of the region; the PSOE also stole to Asturias, in 2005, the high speed, with 4000 million euros invested and misdirected. The passage of time also highlights the disaster of its railway policy in the incorporation of Asturias into the Spanish high-speed network. The last thing we have known, also with the pandemic, is that ADIF confirmed that this network will not reach the three main population centers of Asturias and will remain in Pola de Lena, excluding its extension to Oviedo, Gijón and Avilés. Also, following the colossal step behind the inauguration and commissioning in 2011, by the former socialist government, of the station in the background of the sack of Leon, which penalizes the travel time between Asturias and Madrid within the north-northwest corridor, his government has decided to apply in the variant of Pajares the Iberian width, which disconnects Asturias from the European railway directives both for the transport of passengers and for the transport of goods. Asturians are not second-rate citizens, Mr Ábalos. We want the same deal as the rest of the Spaniards. We want high speed Spanish, not low speed Spanish. We want to equate the Madrid-Asturias line with the rest of the Spanish AVE lines and not become a railway ghetto. Port links are also not free from oblivion and neglect. In these weeks of emergency by coronavirus it has been known that his ministry wants to renounce, irresponsibly, the agreement signed in 2005 for the road connections of the port of Gijón; announcement that it adds to the previews so that the great ports of El Musel and Avilés have railway connections in standard or European width, the same as all the Spanish ports of general interest competitors, such as the Basques or the Levantinos. That is, the same as all the other Spanish harbour spaces of general interest, both for the competitiveness in the ports and for the exploitation of the great enlargements already executed in them, as well as to advance towards the objective of creating employment in a community that chronically occupies the red lighthouse in the national rate of active population, because we are no more than anyone, but neither we accept to receive less attention than the others. There is not a single railway reason or constitutional fairness for the Madrid-Asturias high-speed line not to be equal to the other AVE lines of the rest of Spain, and the connections of El Musel and Avilés are not European wide; as the pretexts of ADIF are not fit to renounce now one of the objectives for which the great and expensive works to drill Guadarrama and Pajares, which was to communicate Madrid and Oviedo in less than two and a half hours. The northwest of Spain also exists, Mr Ábalos. Ladies and gentlemen, in his first appearance in this XIV Legislature, the holder of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda announces here, in the Congress of Deputies, an impetus for a new plan of closeness 2020-2025 that - according to his words - integrates and optimizes the plans that are already being implemented throughout Spain. Translated in the Asturias case?; the ministry has decided to send the Plan de Cercanías 2017-2022, approved by consensus of the Socialist Government of the Principality and the Government of Spain of the PP, which had endowment and budget calendar, in addition to a very broad political, trade union, business and social support. For Forum it is essential to continue this plan publicly presented at the end of 2017, because the state of the network of closenesses in Asturias needs emergency actions in the lines of metric width of FEVE and in the conventional ones of Renfe, since the situation is chaotic, with thousands of cancellations last year, closure of roads, less frequencies and a constant loss of travelers encrypted by 12% last year. That is why - and I have concluded my question, Madam President - I urge the Minister to provide answers to overcome this railway landscape that has kept Asturias in the last century, asking him to make concrete commitments to recover the time lost in the implementation of the agreements, rather than to undo them, and to demand rationality in order to live up to the agreements and broad political and social consensuss reached for the benefit of the citizens. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u152	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. The Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda then has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u153	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I must say to you, honourable Member, that I am pleased to see you back here, and I also thank you for your willingness to postpone this inquiry, as last Wednesday coincided with my appearance in the Senate. However, I would like to make it clear to you, even if it is not part of the inquiry, that this Government has not rescued any motorways, it was the previous one. We have simply assumed the expiration of concessions, without prolonging them. That is all we have done, taking on commitments, but of course we have neither rescued nor extended any motorway, and the aggravation that results from Asturias, therefore, does not exist. The only thing that happened on the León-Campomanes motorway is that by Royal Decree 392/2000 the then minister, Arias Salgado - being vice president Alvarez-Cascos, founder of his party - extended this motorway until October 17, 2050. That is what one Government does and what another does. But as I have been able to explain to you in my previous appearances both in this House and in the Senate itself on the general lines of the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda for the legislature, we have not been able to fully develop this strategic shift in railway matters, since we did not at the time get the approval of the budget in which this strategic shift in railway matters was indeed clear. We bet on the user and, in particular, on improving mobility in a secure, sustainable and connected way, but this declaration of intentions does not remain here, but reaches all the actions that we have in place or planned in the short, medium and long term. In the case of Asturian cities, as in the rest of Spain, our priority in railway matters is closeness, with a very high number of users. To this end, from the very beginning, we assume rationally and responsibly the closeness plans that were being implemented at that time, but our obligation is to adapt them to the new mobility policy, which involves a shift in the investor role, focusing on enhancing the renewal, maintenance and improvement of the capacity and reliability of existing infrastructures and mobile equipment. I will begin by addressing the first point you raise: the incorporation of Asturias into the Spanish high-speed network up to Oviedo Gijón and Avilés. Before going into detail, I would like to inform you that Asturias will have high-speed services comparable in terms of services, in time and in everything to those of the major Spanish and European cities, and that is progressing as never before. First, the execution of the works of the underground of the station of León, whose completion will have great influence on the improvement of the journey times to Asturias, about 95%. In the next section, Leon-La Robla, you will have a double track with mixed width. The road renovation works to implement this width and remove the steps at the level are under way, as well as work at the security facilities. Then, in the variant of Pajares, spectacular work of engineering and of great complexity, whose cost is close to 4 billion euros. All sections of the platform are completed, the rest of the actions, tracks, electrification, signalling systems, are in construction or with advanced contracting. A definitive solution has been given to the technical criteria-based width scheme. The necessary passenger and freight traffic capacity will be guaranteed by the new tunnels of the variant. The development of the works will allow for the start of the tests in 2021. And as a demonstration of the momentum we are giving, just two weeks ago we awarded the contract for the execution of the external civil works in the variant of Pajares, with a budget of more than 10 million euros. For the last stage, Pola de Lena-Asturian cities, it will be the indicative strategy for the development, renovation and maintenance of the railway network of general interest over the next few years, which will establish the criteria on which to plan and design the finalization of the large high-speed corridors in Spain, including the connection with these Asturian cities. The completion of the high-speed operation and the improvement of the existing network to extend its benefits will continue to be a key pillar of investment in railway infrastructure. In short, bringing high-speed services to a given city must be carried out according to rationality, efficiency and sustainability criteria, especially as regards infrastructure, and in each case must be adapted to the constraints and particularities of each corridor. [[The Lord]] Our railway priorities for the main cities of Asturias - Oviedo, Gijón and Avilés - are consistent with the new model of mobility and are aligned with those identified in the Nearness Plan of Asturias. With these premises we are influencing the actions with the highest added value in the connections between Oviedo, Gijón and Avilés, with the aim of improving the capacity of the infrastructure and being able to establish new railway services. Thus we are making progress in the exploitation of the Olloniego section and the railway node of Villabona, for which in September last year we started an informative study. The second point of its interpellation is the standard wide connections of the large ports of El Musel and Avilés. The configuration designed with the expected arrival of the standard width up to Campomanes, shows the commitment to advance in the unification of the standard width throughout our network, but starting from rational planning, because to achieve this final objective it is necessary to provide continuity in both widths to our extensive and capillary railway network. Also, the networks managed by the ports of Avilés and Gijón include the facilities located in the interior; both ports have a network in Iberian width and in metric width. At the time of the availability of a timetable for putting into service the standard width in the corridor of goods that connects with the ports of Gijón and Avilés, including access to these ports, the port authorities would be able to program the standard width endowment on their networks. In short, the decision proposed by the technicians has been taken, which avoids leaving the ports of Asturias isolated, which has no impact on travel times - on the contrary, cuts the trip back a few minutes - which allows European funding and does not mortgage the future. When the general configuration of the network in Spain advises to change the width to benefit the industry and the Asturian shippers, it will change because it is naughty multipurpose. The third of the points on which you are interested is the Plan de Cercanías, which, as you say, was adopted by consensus between the Government of the Principality and the Government of Spain. Closeness, as I have indicated, is one of the pillars of our mobility policy, so we will certainly continue to work on the existing plan; on the shock plan that we launched in October 2019, with investment ratios planned for the coming years very significant in relation to the rest of the neighbourhood cores, and on the integration - which does not replace - of all this in the new closeness plan 2020-2025. In particular, ADIF has actions of more than EUR 400 million. Within them we can highlight, in the network of metric width, the renovations of the track, the improvement of accessibility in the station of Pola de Sero, replacements of steps at level in the line Fuso-Collanzo, the reinforcement of bridges, trenches in the line Gijón-Pravia, improvement of waterproofing of tunnels, removal of trees and vegetation to improve visibility throughout the network and others related to the security installations. On a conventional network, the project of the renovation of the centralized traffic control centres in León and Oviedo, whose work is already under way, should be highlighted. In addition, platform improvements, waterproofing of tunnels, improvement of the track level in localized sections and improvement of security facilities, among others, are being promoted. Renfe, in addition to having already executed about 20 million euros in actions of improvement of stations and modernization of the fleet, regarding the plan of renovation of rolling stock, in a few weeks, of course before August, will award the contest of the trains of metric width to renew the material of the lines of the former FEVE in Asturias. The fourth and final point of its inquiry is that of the underground and intermodal stations for railway integrations. In the case of Gijón, the new agreement, signed on 8 May 2019, for the execution of the actions referred to in it, provides for the sharing of the contributions of the various partners of the Gijón Society to the North, with an investment of more than eight hundred million euros. For the new intermodal station of Gijón, less than a week ago, last Thursday, we published in the BOE the public information of the informative study for the removal of the railway barrier in Gijón. As I have indicated on previous occasions, the will of the ministry is to work from the agreement with the competent administrations for integration in Gijón. To this end, we have drawn up a new information study which allows us to identify the costs of railway actions and, therefore, the contributions that will be required from each of the three administrations. The written informational study proposes two alternatives, the Moreda solution and the Railway Museum solution. We understand that this is a project for the future and an opportunity not only for Gijón, but for Asturias, to have a central enclave in which the railway will make an important contribution to making cities and improving urban and inter-urban mobility. You have no doubt that the best solution will be taken according to the risks, the functionality, the cost, the environment and the deadline. Regardless of the above-mentioned information study, ADIF will draft the projects and execute the necessary works for the commissioning of the metrotrain from the extraction well to Cabueñes, with a totally underground layout. The projects that ADIF has already written are the following: the Plaza Europa station, Bibio and Viesques stations and extension to Cabueñes. As for Avilés, we continue to draft the informative study with a contract that was signed in July 2019 and has a drafting deadline of twenty-four months. Finally, for the undergroundation of the network line of metric width in Langreo, our commitment is to take charge through ADIF of the superstructure work on the infrastructure work executed by the Principality. It includes the drafting and approval of projects and subsequent tendering of works. At present the construction projects of the superstructure are approved and our wish would be that, once the administrative obstacles have been overcome - precisely, I understand that today the project goes to the plenary of the city - we can begin the works as soon as possible. I'm done. In the ministry we are making an unprecedented effort to modernize the infrastructure and railway services of Asturias and so we want to continue. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u154	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ábalos, thank you for your initial words about my recovery. In relation to his appearance in the Senate, at last, for those who have been senator what less than favoring the appearance of the Minister of Transport and playing the High Chamber. You were talking about the toll, and I would like to pencil and remind you that in 2020 the toll on the motorway between Campomanes and León was lowered and, also, the socialist project of extending it 70 kilometers from León to Benavente paid off was cancelled. That was cancelled by the People's Party Government. Mr. Ábalos, far from providing good news, you have confirmed all the maneuvers of your ministry to delay, liquidate, cancel and prostitute the key railway projects for the future of Asturias. Look, if the accounts do not fail me, you are the sixth minister with whom I have had the opportunity to discuss in the Courts the railway isolation of Asturias, but you, unlike the others, have a tool that they did not have, an extra endowment of 62 million euros incorporated in the General Budgets of the State still in force, thanks to the amendments of the People's Party and Forum to make socially profitable the great railway works and put them into service as soon as possible. An addition to the items that were already incorporated in the draft budgets and which you have wasted. These days are two years after Pedro Sánchez's arrival in the government. Let me remind you that in this very rostrum Mr Sánchez said the following: Logically, we are going to respect the execution of the works that have been budgeted for by the current government; there is no other - Mr Sánchez added - because, of course, they are not our budgets, but of course we are not going to fail to comply with the agreement of this House. Two years later the lie, the falsehood of the President of the Government, was discovered. Mr Ábalos, listening to your announcements, I was convinced that you keep thinking about the huge difference between the railway commitments to your Valencian and Levantine lands and the railway commitments to Asturias and the neighbouring regions of the Cantabrian region. In Levante it has the autonomous governments and the entrepreneurs led by AVE, the Valencian Association of Entrepreneurs, continuously pressing it on the urgency of completing the works and putting in service the 1000 kilometers of AVE of the Mediterranean between Algeciras and Figueras. In Asturias he has his compañeras of the Government of the Principality making the wave when he announces that he is not going to install European high speed from León on the side of Pajares or that he will not put in service the metrotrain of Gijón, with respective tunnels of 25 and 4 kilometers unused for twelve years. In Levante it has the autonomous governments demanding the high European speed on a double platform, width of European way UIC throughout the itinerary, and in Asturias it has the councillor of Infrastructures applauding the commissioning of a train of half hair on the Renfe width that will make the tour Madrid-Gijón in three and a half hours; the confirmation that the European width will not reach the ports of El Musel and Aviles; or the announcement of the break for the second time in fifteen years of a pact reached away to the terminal station of Gijón to the extraradio of the city. Conclusion: it is a fact that the railway policy of the Ministry of Transport enshrines the inequality between the two Spains, between the Spaniards of Levante and the Mediterranean and the Spaniards of Asturias and the regions of the Cantabrian region. This is how the Asturians show their hair, being the bulwarks in the official statistics of the National Institute of Statistics. [[Show a sign]] Mr Ábalos, I want for Asturias exactly the same as for your land; I want high speed; I want the definitive solution. The international width that you will apply in the Mediterranean corridor, in its thousand kilometers; I want it for the sixty kilometers between Pola de Lena and La Robla, in the variant of Pajares. I want high speed just like the others, international width for travellers and for goods, Mr Ábalos; the same treatment for Asturias as for the Levantinos and for the rest of the Spaniards. Rail integration. Can you quote any case where you want to take a terminal station to an urban periphery? In Gijón we are talking about the fifth station in which we have had a democratic period, the fifth; two already existed of old; another was inaugurated by the socialist government in 1990, far from the center, great innovation, great disaster, drove away the travelers; and the one that you enabled in 2011 in the form of a tentayu, the same, another fiasco and now even further away, to Moreda, a barabasada. And you say your priority is travelers? No, Minister, please don't make fun of the Asturians. I conclude, Mr President, by announcing that I will present the corresponding motion as a result of an inquiry to reorient the disastrous railway policy of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u156	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u157	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I will give you some information so that you can see what this government is doing for Asturias and, in this way, see what the government that you supported did not do. From June 2018 to May 2020, which is the time I have been a minister, we have bid more than EUR 300 million against the slightly less than 200 million that were bid in the last period of the same duration of the previous government, between June 2016 and May 2018, almost 60% more. If we only take investment bids, the percentage increases to 115 % more. For these same periods of time, we have executed more than EUR 257 million in investment compared to the 242 million that the government you supported executed, 6% more. The 2019 General Budgets, which you did not support, gave Asturias 48 million more, 15%. In the infrastructure of the Neighbourhood Plan, the Government has already invested more than 26 million compared to just under four million from the previous government, 564% more - as the figures are small, the percentages are very high - and the mobile equipment had units up to forty-five years old, which I have informed you earlier that we are going to renew. As for the section Pola de Lena-Asturian towns, I would like to clarify that there were informational studies in progress that sought to analyze the extension of the high-speed network from Pola de Lena to the cities of Oviedo, Gijón and Avilés. However, having submitted it to public information in 2015 with negative results due to opposition from several affected municipalities and some industry, such as the Minersa Group, as well as technical difficulties with a very high cost per kilometer and a very small reduction in travel times - I don't know if they were around seven or nine minutes -, in 2017 the previous government, which you supported, decided to give up such informational studies. That's what we've met and that's what we're working on, because what we want is for high speed to reach all cities. Sometimes, according to what you hear, they seem to have to get off the train, but you know perfectly well that the train arrives at these stations, which is true that somewhat slows down the speed, but it's so short the time I think we're talking about the order of 4 billion to seven minutes. I don't know what the anxiety is about it. If we can do things right and with less resources, I think the option is clear. As for Gijón, our attitude has already been told, it is of absolute cooperation. Let's see what the informational study says - let's not be afraid of technical studies - and, depending on what it brings us, let's come to an agreement. We have no prior disposition, no prejudice, no pre-emptive will; simply to see what the informative studies say, what it costs, how it can be done, how we share the costs and among all, the three parties, we make the decision. I assure you, we have no prejudice. Therefore, no decision is put before us. We have launched the informational study. However, if I look at my speech carefully, some announcements I have made, some deadlines I have given, some specific dates of tendering I have given. Obviously, there is always much to be done and, until we conclude, it is to be done. I understand your pressure, that's why you're here. It also gives me an opportunity to say things that, if I didn't ask, they wouldn't have any echoes. So I'm also grateful for that. With regard to the aggravation with the Valencian Community and the Mediterranean, I would like that to be said there, because they tell me otherwise. I would do a good campaign by saying that, because you know that everywhere the claim is greater than one can do, and in my land they tell me the opposite. That's why I'm telling you this is also good for you to see it too. This issue of territorial grievances is something that happens throughout Spain; Spain is diverse, there are many interests, but some of us have to do Spain in full and Spain in full and, therefore, try to balance investments and have a Spanish strategy for the whole country. Thank you very much anyway, Mr Oblanca, because I assure you, truly, that you have given me an opportunity to explain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u158	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - THE JOINT Parliamentary GROUP ON POLICIES TO BE DEVELOPED [[Señor Quevedo ITURBE]] THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN TO FAVOUR CONNECTIVENESS AND RECOVERY OF TOURISM IN CANADIANS. [[File number 172/000037]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u159	Next, urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the policies to be developed by the Government of Spain to promote the connectivity and recovery of tourism in the Canary Islands. For your defence, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. Madam Minister of Tourism, I am aware that what I am going to put to you in this interpretation does not really affect exclusively the Ministry of Tourism, but we also believe that in this second stage of the pandemic, which is social and economic, the Ministry of Tourism must assume a clear leadership role. Because the burden of tourism in the Spanish State is 12% on GDP and about the generation of employment depends on tourism, but in the Canary Islands it turns out that the impact on GDP is 35% and 40% on employment, more than three times the average in the Spanish State. That is why we have been saying that there are two pandemics for the Canary Islands, although we are completely in solidarity with the rest of the state, as you can understand. The health pandemic has taken us well, I think things have been done well, and the Canary Islands is practically a virus-free territory. But the second part of the pandemic, which is social and economic, is going to impact in a devastating way in the Canary Islands after the tourist zero that we are suffering. Because the impact of tourism on the Canary Islands, if it is at zero, is simply devastating, to such an extent that, at the moment, among people who are at ERTE, that is, who are unemployed and who need help, we have more than 40% of the working population at risk. This is a monstrosity and I imagine that we understand each other on this subject without needing to give him more explanations. Look, the Canarian society, not the Government of the Canaries or New Canaries, canarian society has approved a plan for social and economic recovery by overwhelming majority, in which between its strategic priorities 4 and 5 we talk about the recovery of employment and the impulse to economic activity. And, in both cases, the reference necessarily passes through the effective reactivation of tourism on the islands for both issues. However, the Canary Islands cannot do it alone; however well things are done, what is clear is that the dependence on the tourist phenomenon in the Canary Islands is supracanary; that is, as well as we do it, it does not depend only on the Canary Islands doing it very well to recover the tourist activity in the archipelago. I will give you some information: the Canary airports are connected to 150 airports in 27 countries of the world; therefore, they manage approximately 20 million places of people who arrive in the Canary Islands each year, this is a monstrous figure that, let's do what we do, is not enough if you don't help us from the Government of Spain. Secondly, without international flights it is not possible to recover the activity; then we will explain the role that each of the sectors issuing tourism to the Canary Islands has. But, look, of 15.1 million tourists - this is said soon, eh! - in 2019, more than 13 million is foreign tourism; therefore, I think it is very clear what weighs each thing. We therefore propose in this question two types of measures, as you will have seen: a type of measures which are announced by the President of the Government and the spokesman minister, with which we agree and with which we hope that they will be implemented, logically, which are intended to protect the sector until normal. Here we have the continuity of the ERTE until a relatively normal regime is recovered, this is essential: the extension of the ERTE for tourism and associated activities; the facilitation of liquidity to tourism companies through the ICO lines, and the specific plans to boost tourism for Balearics and the Canary Islands, both archipelagos, although we have some differences. This is a set of measures that are not only dependent on you, of course, but are completely decisive. There are other measures that have to do with the connectivity and security of communications with the Canary Islands. With regard to facilitating travel to the Canary Islands, look, once the opening of Spain's borders has been decided, the Government is carrying out a series of negotiations with different countries at the European level, especially those with, say, a similar situation from the point of view of the positive evolution of the pandemic caused by COVID-19. Canary Islands must participate in the creation of safe corridors between countries with similar and positive epidemiological situations. But, although this seems obvious, we could take this for granted, we are extremely concerned about the development of the European Commission's proposals on this issue, because we need to know how the negotiations and agreements that this Spanish Government is carrying out for the establishment of corridors between different European regions, among which must of course be Canary Islands. We have doubts as to whether that is being done. On the other hand, it is necessary to ensure safety for our visitors, for workers and for residents. As far as safety is concerned, I have already said this: the Canary Islands is in practice a territory free of viruses and this is an enormously important strength that must be used. It is necessary that the reopening of the borders and of the tourist activity is carried out in sufficient security, because it is absolutely necessary that we sell the Canary Islands as a safe and responsible destination. We must ensure that all people arriving in the Canary Islands must be subjected to effective diagnostic tests in advance in order to ensure that all those who travel do not or will not be infected, because if this does not happen, we know that something like what happened with the flight to Lanzarote, which fortunately was nothing, happens to us on two flights and sinks the season. Therefore, this is an extremely serious issue. The Government of the Canary Islands has already committed itself to carrying out the tests at destination in the Canary Islands. Why? Because if we do not guarantee safety with PCR tests we will hardly convince anyone that it is worth a trip to the Canary Islands, when we are precisely in a time, as it is the summer, which is not the best season for the Canary Islands, as you know. We therefore need the Spanish Government to launch a strong international communication campaign by putting security as an essential argument. We believe that this measure needs your help; this cannot fall only into the hands of tourists themselves or tour operators because it will then be unworkable. The next issue is to encourage air connectivity with the islands. Look, we depend - I have already explained it to you - basically on international tourism; we, in a hundred percent, because the weight of Canarian tourism - the canaries will do everything they can, like the rest of the Spanish citizens, to help - is 1% and in the case of Spanish tourism it is more or less 10%, and so and everything will have to be taken stimulus measures with Spanish tourism to convince the people of the state that it is worth getting to Canaries. But we depend absolutely on external connectivity; the weight of international tourism is decisive and, moreover, summer is a low time for the tourist activity of the Canary Islands because Mediterranean destinations are opened up, they are closer, it is cheaper for airlines, many of them in bankruptcy practically, as you know, and therefore there is a tremendous risk that we will not recover a reasonable activity. For this reason - my mother, with the short time I have left! - it is necessary to promote the demand for air connections that facilitate international air connectivity with the Canary Islands and for this reason we need to adopt extraordinary and specific measures to promote connectivity. Two key packages: one, the reduction of air charges and bonuses for additional positions scheduled from July onwards. This first issue of air fares reduction was already addressed in the past crisis and led to a substantial increase, of an additional 1.6 million tourists, between 2009 and 2012. The goodness of this measure is evident. In 2020, if we reach 5 million tourists - 65 % less, with a fall in GDP of 20 % and a loss of turnover of more than EUR 9 billion - and we cannot improve these numbers, we are going to put ourselves at a very high unemployment rate, as I remind you that the previous crisis was less than this and we reached 34,7 %. This figure is monstrous. I don't know if I'm moving clearly what the problem is. Therefore, this is the first consideration. The second is that of the bonuses, and there are two measures in this area: one, the bonuses to airport charges, which has already been made with the Thomas Cook crisis with good results, but now we need to extend this idea to the new seats scheduled from July to the Canary Islands, both on national, state and international flights. On the other hand, the reduction in the rate of en route air navigation, the so-called route rate that Enaire manages, as you know. What we want is something very simple: as this penalizes distance, apply the same rate to us as to that place of the Spanish State that is closer to the Canary Islands and then we will be likened to the peninsular territory, which is a completely reasonable measure. I will tell you that all these measures are neither exotic nor occurrences, they are in the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, Article 4.4. Finally, there is an urgent need to promote a specific and temporary package of airline incentives. This is a matter that the European Commission, as you know very well, has to do with. This is a question that is related to the generation of state aid to combat the effects of COVID-19 and in which we must use - we suggest, we ask you to use with the corresponding energy - the ultraperipheral condition of the Canary Islands, because that precisely puts us in good condition for Europe to understand the additional effort to be made with the Canary Islands. I trust it. Of course, as you can imagine, we will make a very concrete motion on this, but I trust the sensitivity of the Government of Spain and that of its ministry and I hope you will understand that the Canary Islands is playing it as no one, like any other community in the State, in this post-pandemic situation. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u161	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u162	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Quevedo, as you have just said, the Canary Islands is facing a very complex situation as a result of the impact of the health crisis. We are very aware of this and that is why the Government is taking a specific follow-up to both the measures that have been taken so far and those that we are going to continue to adopt. As you said, the Canary Islands has a uniqueness for obvious reasons related to its geographical location and its high dependence on tourism, which, as you said, is around 35% of its GDP and 40% of its employment. These two circumstances, an ultraperipheral region and a high dependence on tourism, have caused the Canary Islands to be affected from the outset by the restrictions on mobility adopted to control the health crisis, restrictions which, as you know, have occurred in all the countries in our environment. As I said, we are very aware of the specific situation in which the Canary Islands is located, and therefore we have acted decisively from the outset so that the crisis does not jeopardize the bankruptcy of companies and to protect workers in the tourism sector, an extraordinary action, Your Honor, which has been fundamental to sustaining tourism, because the recovery has not begun now; it began with the first measures we took at the time when the pandemic was declared, measures which, as I said, have dampened the impact of this crisis and served as a containment dam to start the economic recovery as soon as possible. In this regard, let me remind you that the first measure that this ministry launched was precisely for the tourism sector. As you know, we expanded the ICO line we created last autumn after Thomas Cook's bankruptcy to 400 million euros. Also then our reaction was immediate and effective by recovering much of the air traffic after Thomas Cook's bankruptcy. This line, Your Honor, has made it possible to finance more than 200 operations in the Canary Islands worth 23 million euros. But undoubtedly the most important measure to protect the productive fabric in this extraordinary situation has been the line that we subsequently adopted, up to EUR 100 billion in public endorsements of the ICO, which, as you know, is being deployed in several sections. According to the data available until 1 June, the ICO has provided financing to more than 17 thousand companies in the Canary Islands, which have received more than EUR 25 billion in state-backed financing, accounting for 4% of the total. In fact, tourism, as I said, which is the sector most affected by the pandemic, is also the sector that has benefited most from the funding line provided by the ICO, approximately 17% of the total. We have also adopted other measures to protect the employment and bankruptcy of businesses, such as the flexibility of ERTs or the extraordinary benefit for self-employed people, which have benefited the tourism sector in a significant way, where more than 70% of the workers affiliated throughout the country are covered by one of these measures. Furthermore, within the framework of the social dialogue, as you know, we have agreed to extend the use of ERTs and to establish a procedure for the possible extension of this extraordinary mechanism, which undoubtedly involves a significant deployment of State resources to protect employment. The aim is to adapt this extraordinary and flexible system of support for ERTs in the most affected sectors and, of course, tourism will be one of them. We are also analysing with the social partners how to adapt the ERTE to accompany the process of descalation and at the same time encourage economic recovery. I assure you that tourism and hospitality are the sectors, as I said, most benefited from the government's shock plan. Your Honor, you are asking me about the policies that the Government is going to develop to promote connectivity, but also the recovery of tourism in the Canary Islands. As your honor knows, we will launch pilot projects for safe tourist corridors before 1 July. As you know, on Monday we announced and approved the first tourist corridor to be developed by the Balearic Government with Germany and we are also working with the Canary Islands. They are runners who can propose any autonomous community that is in phase 3 of the descalade. This previous experience, in addition to contributing significantly to the recovery of connectivity and tourism activity, will also allow us to verify that all the health safety protocols we have provided work properly. In recent weeks, various members of the Government are working to coordinate within the framework of the European Union the elimination of intra-European border controls and with third countries of the European Union. We have maintained and continue to maintain permanent contacts with our main issuing markets with the intention, as I pointed out, of promoting connectivity with Spain and the Canary Islands as soon as possible, but, as you also point out in your intervention, with the maximum health guarantees. He will share with me that the descalation has been and is being gradual, asymmetrical and coordinated, but above all it is being a safe descalation, because we are not in a race to see who will arrive first, but to see who is safer. The biggest guarantee - I said the other day - to reactivate tourism is to keep the virus at bay. After the collective effort we have made, we must avoid going back to the exit box, which would certainly be fatal to the credibility and image of Spain. You will agree with me, Mr Quevedo, on the crucial importance of restoring the strength and confidence of the Spanish tourism sector, of recovering economic activity in a framework in which we can guarantee the safety and health of all people who come to our wonderful destinations. From the ministry that I run we have commissioned the Institute for the Spanish Tourist Quality to draw up more than twenty guides and protocols that will undoubtedly be fundamental in order to be able to restart the activity with the maximum health guarantees, but also to offer confidence to the visitors, to the workers and, as I said, to the residents of the destinations. They are guides that are already available and validated by the Ministry of Health. As I said, they have been developed in concert with the autonomous communities and social partners and have very clear specifications on service, cleaning and disinfection, maintenance and risk management for the different subsectors of the tourism sector. In addition, we are already in a process of certification of these guides, both through ONE and ISO, and we are also developing badges to make our destination safe. I was also wondering about the revival of tourism. As I said a few days ago, we are working intensively on a sector support plan that will have at least four priority axes. The first one you pointed out throughout your speech: health security. As I said, security is already well advanced through these protocols, which will also be guides of good practice for many countries in our environment, since Spain has participated in these months in the crisis committee of the World Tourism Organization. Last week we had the opportunity to present these guides, so Spain will undoubtedly be a benchmark of good practices in the field of health security, because for us the priority is to regain confidence as a safe destination. Another area of this support plan concerns the strengthening of the economic measures that we have already implemented and that require continuity. We will strengthen financing and liquidity in the tourism sector with a new sub-tram in the specific ICO line of endorsements for tourism with EUR 25 billion. Also, as you know, the tripartite monitoring committee which is currently working on the definition of the accompanying measures in the field of employment that will be necessary after 30 June, when it completes - as you know - the extension of ERTE, is working to make this measure more flexible, so that tourist activities can have an extension of this important measure to protect employment and also to protect businesses, allowing, inter alia, the gradual reincorporation of workers according to the level of recovery of activity, as you pointed out, and establishing incentives for the training and retraining of workers in sectors where activity is not fully recovered. A plan that we will also strengthen from the point of view of investment in digitisation and sustainable environments in both pioneering tourist destinations and inland destinations. A plan in which we will also strengthen the network of intelligent tourist destinations with 75 million euros, a network in which, as you know, several canary destinations participate. Among other measures, the plan also includes the improvement of tourist knowledge. In these months of the pandemic crisis we have needed and developed a whole system of tourist information that will allow us to make better decisions to develop the right tourist policies. More real-time indicators, data and information that we will share with the autonomous communities and the tourism sector as a whole. Finally, you were talking about the promotion, the promotion of Spain as a safe and sustainable destination not only for national tourism, but also for international tourism. With regard to the promotion, I must say that we are working in a coordinated way with the autonomous communities, the promotional agencies and the product clubs in a new communication campaign, first national and then international, with the aim of recovering the volume of tourists that each year choose Spain for their holidays, a campaign, no doubt necessary, that has to generate confidence and security in all the acceptances and that makes our country referencing as a tourist destination. With regard to the coordination in Europe to which he referred earlier and which is undoubtedly a fundamental aspect for the Canary Islands, but also for the countries within their issuing markets, I must say that on 11 May nine countries led by Spain presented a joint statement at the last informal meeting of Ministers of Tourism to ask the European Union for a recovery plan aimed at alleviating the negative impact of the pandemic on the European tourism sector, a plan in which we specifically call for attention to the problems of the island and outermost regions such as the Canary Islands. Your Honor, the Government is giving priority to the tourism sector. Transport certainly also deserves mention, and then I will refer to it in the reply, but what I want to transfer is that it is urgent - I would say that it is most important at the moment - to reactivate tourism, to launch this great country which is Spain and the Canary Islands as one of the most chosen destinations, we have to do it with all the health guarantees and we certainly hope to have its group and to have all the political forces, and it has the clear commitment of this minister to collaborate and work together to strengthen the strength of our Canarian tourism sector. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u163	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u164	Thank you again, Mr. President. Madam Minister, I have listened to you carefully and the truth is that the title of the inquiry is connectivity and recovery, and if you answer to the connectivity in the reply, I do not have time to reply to it in my turn. What I am telling you is that, as you may suppose, there will be a motion next week in which we will need more than what has been specified in your answer. I understand that it is not easy to make a concrete answer, but you have to understand that everything is fine, but the problem we have is that if international tourism does not arrive enough, we are dead. So it's all great, but that's the problem. And the ERTEs are fine, but we prefer activity recovery to the ERTEs. ERTE is a fundamental measure, but we prefer to have the activity recovered, because neither those affected by ERTE themselves are interested in charging what they did not charge nor the State is interested, nor are Canary Islands paying EUR 300 million a month for the issue of ERTE. Then, any measure that is related to reopening the tourist market in the Canary Islands as quickly as possible actually saves money. That is why safety is crucial, because if it were not safe, the expenditure on monitoring and monitoring the possible contacts that came to the Canary Islands more than that of the ERTE would ultimately be more expensive than what we saved ourselves by doing the tests at source, which is what I have made clear to you; I have not received an answer and I suppose you will tell me something now. On the question of Thomas Cook, of course, Thomas Cook worked. That's why I'm asking you to do it again. We have to do it again. We are making clear to you the need to establish a set of airport rate bonuses and the charges that have to do with the additional seats, which has already worked. What we are proposing is that it be done. I don't know if I'm capable of moving this. There are general measures of tourist activity, but in the Canary Islands road tourism will not work. Countries will stimulate inland tourism and Spain will do so too, and they do well. Road tourism is going to work, a lot of people are going to move like this. The train will also be a very important route. But, as you know, the Canary Islands, in that, zero; it does not exist. And there are countries that are going to favour inland tourism, with measures like those of Italy, for example, which is going to give 500 million euros to Italians who make tourist reservations in Italy. This is not the case with the Canary Islands. We have airlines in a dramatic situation; that is, we, or we put it safe, very safe, easy, very easy, and we demonstrate the strengths of the Canary Islands - by the way, I don't know why we are not in the test of the tourist corridors; this is requested, the so-called safe corridors - or we have no chance of recovering the sector and even less this year. I therefore believe that if we do this right now, if we support it decisively, it will actually save the effort of the State and calm the sector in the Canary Islands. I have been listening carefully to the approach that has been taking to me and I want to say that the tourism sector in the Canary Islands has developed plans of absolute excellence. The problem is, it's not just up to us. We can do what we want, but people have to come and basically international tourism, no matter how welcome Spanish tourism is. On this subject, I trust that the prices of air tickets to the Canary Islands will not be fired again. I am sure that Minister Ábalos has already made it clear: paying certain bills for free because someone abuses with this is not a good idea. In the Canary Islands the dependence on international tourism - I have told you before - is very large, of 15 million tourists more than 13 are foreign tourists, tourists from third countries. Therefore, it is essential to facilitate their arrival, that is, we have to convince these tourists - for example, a German from Hamburg who gets on a full plane for more than four hours - that they are calm because they will neither be infected nor will they be infected. How do we convince them? Because, if we don't, there are countries that aren't recommending traveling. We have to make this easier. Therefore, what we are putting forward from the PCRs, from the previous tests, is no nonsense; it is more, it is a savings in the end. What happens is that it can't fall on both the traveller's and tour operators' fishing by charging the bill, because then they won't come because it's expensive. We need to find a way and what we are asking of you is a negotiation with countries in similar epidemiological situations. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u165	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u166	Thank you very much, President. Indeed, Mr Quevedo, I had one of the elements to develop in the speech and I will take these five minutes. I wanted to talk to you about air transport, which certainly deserves special attention in your question. As you know, the Air Safety Agency and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control published on 13 May a series of recommendations for the sector that the Government wants to transfer as mandatory in a regulation that is already being developed by the Ministry of Transport. I would also like to point out to you that, in the case of AENA, an operational recovery plan has already been put in place, which will be developed in two phases. In the first phase, as long as the pandemic lasts, measures to ensure health security are already being implemented, with all measures of passenger control coordinated with the health authority. In a second phase, a series of investments for technological development in infrastructure will be carried out in AENA, which will certainly also improve aviation experience. But I am also aware that Canarias is interested in the development of mobile applications, app applications, for the 'trace' of contacts, an aspect that is certainly crucial to avoid a possible resurgence of the pandemic. As you know, we are working - I said earlier - with the Canary Government to implement these measures and to be able to approve very soon different safe tourist corridors - as we have already done on Monday in the case of the Balearic Islands - and we hope that in the coming days we can also announce that in the area of the Canary Islands - and all those autonomous communities that request it - we can open these corridors so that tourists can come as soon as possible because for us at this time it is crucial to reactivate the tourist sector, taking into account - as I pointed out - that in addition, from the epidemiological point of view, the Canary Islands is now in a situation of control of the pandemic. You pointed out the issue of PCRs. I would like to tell you that we are working in this area with the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control within the European Commission, which determines the recommendations to be implemented. There is no consensus on the use of the RCPs in origin and destination, but that does not mean that the Spanish Government is not open to all the proposals which, both within the European Union countries and within the autonomous communities, are put to us. In the case of the Canary Islands, given its high dependence on international tourism, we need reciprocity agreements so that this measure can be implemented and I assure you that we are working - and not just the Minister of Tourism, we are a group of ministers - at the moment and we are leading in the European Union with our counterparts that tourism is a priority on the European agenda, and within the framework of the European Union's recovery plan knows that it will be one of the main sectors benefiting. In conclusion, I want to strengthen two ideas. The first is that tourism is a priority on the Government's agenda. It has been so since we arrived at the government, and in particular, as I said, we have already addressed an important previous crisis that has impacted the Canary Islands in particular, the Thomas Cook crisis, and of course at the moment we are - and we have been working for three months now - to make the impact of COVID the least possible and to ensure that the reactivation of the tourism sector is done as quickly as possible and with security guarantees, which is what we need. The second is that the tourism sector needs us, you said. There has been a great deal of agreement from the Canarian society calling for it to be reactivated as soon as possible, with very concrete measures that I thank for moving us. He said that we are being asked by the Canarian society, but also by the Spanish society as a whole, to comply with a great country agreement on tourism. I certainly hope that the results of the reconstruction table that is taking place in this House will reinforce the need to articulate support measures from the various competent public administrations and also with the involvement of the private sector so that tourism and therefore this strength of our sector and the generation of employment can be recovered as soon as possible. It is also a time to continue strengthening the strengths of our tourism model, improving its resilience to a health crisis - we do not know how long the COVID will be with us - and above all the strengths from the point of view of the hospitality and excellence of the tourist product that Canarias has. I end with the words the president said two weeks ago. This summer there will be a tourist season and we hope that both residents and international visitors will rediscover Spain. No doubt we're waiting for you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u167	Thank you, Minister. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM ON THE MEASURES PROVIDED FOR ENTRYING FLEXIBILITY TO THE KEY SECTORS OF ECONOMIC ACTIVITY. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number: 172/000038]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u168	An urgent appeal from the Basque Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism on the measures envisaged to give flexibility to the key sectors of economic activity. [[EAJ-PNV]] For your defence, Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u169	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister. This is the third interpellation in relation to industry. In three weeks, after interpellations from different political parties. And it is true, even though we are not ideologically linked to them, it seems that what does exist is a concern for industry. My intention with this interpellation is to convey to you our concern, to make a constructive criticism, but also to re-express the readiness for agreement and dialogue. You often like to talk about certainties and we raise one of those certainties as a starting point for this health crisis, which is also uncertain. It is clear that the crisis is asymmetric and therefore its exit as well. The structure of the productive fabric is very different within the composite state in which we are, and is the productive structure of a region one of the main factors to explain its resilience. Thus, those more diversified economies, with more industry, are always in a better starting position: in the face of a crisis the fall is smaller and the resistance is greater. That is why it is necessary to bet on industry. The Basque Nationalist Party has always done so, we have been betting and betting on industry as an engine of the economy. We have always shown concern about the absence of an industrial policy regardless of who has been ruling, a concern that the sector itself highlights, and also some of the rapporteurs in the economic revival working group of the reconstruction pact. I could say that industrial policy is exclusive competence, and indeed it is, but it will also agree with me that it must be coordinated with the various ministries and with its own - ministries which, at best, are not exclusive, such as those of energy or work - so that decisions are coordinated and do not undermine the viability and competence of the industrial sector. In his last appearance before the COVID I told him that in recent times in the industry patches were being put out or, rather, extinguishing fires to cover the problems in the face of critical situations that were coming, such as Navantia, ArcelorMittal, Alcoa, and those other ones derived from somewhat hasty ads, such as diesel, which were evidenced by a lack of coordination between some ministries and whose consequences, for example, in the automotive sector resulted in a decrease in sales. With this we certainly do not want to attribute to your Government the responsibility for industrial crises, because it is clear that an industrial crisis does not arise from one day to the next, but is the result of many factors and decisions, mainly by companies over time. But the government can do something, it can lay the foundations and policies to attract and retain businesses and thus reduce all these risks. But now we are in a different context, with a significant fall in activity, a situation still of uncertainty, with an economic impact of which we have no precedent or sufficient information. The expansion of the virus and its effect on productive activity are putting sectors with a high impact on the economy in check by dragging even the auxiliary industry. Therefore, in addition to specific and general measures valid for all companies regardless of the sector to which they belong - which we do not doubt - those sectors that are key in the economy need a specific boost. I am referring to automotive, aeronautics and machine tools, sectors of high impact on employment, technological development and the development of related sectors, which are also highly innovative and highly exporting. This is, in short, the motivation for the interpellation we are making. Again, minister, although we understand that the management of COVID is complex, we have the feeling that its ministry is absent in those strategic and most relevant decisions made during the crisis that affected and affect these sectors in full. I am referring to the closure of the activity at twelve o'clock on a Sunday night when his ministry knew perfectly well that the industry needs a scheduled and orderly shutdown to minimize the damage to the production chain. It also fails to take specific measures for these sectors. You can tell me at best that without health there is no economy, but that without economy there is no health. It is not about that dilemma, but about reconciling economics and health, reconciling economics and safety at work, as they are pillars that stand together. Two weeks ago I was asking him about the car measures and he practically didn't say anything to me and then we did find ourselves in the press a car plan that we barely know anything about today. Well, we know you're late. A plan that we understand will depend on the European funds, because you said last week that you inherited a rickshaw budget, that of 2018, and while it is true that this budget after two extensions does not give more of itself, it must also be said that it is up to the current government to look for the necessary arrangements for a new budget. Now they have that opportunity, they have to take those first steps - we are at the door of July - and that is where we will see the priorities and figures that mark their industrial policy. Of course, I do not doubt his goodwill or his prodialogue attitude, but it is not enough. We are at a time when it requires initiatives, concrete and clear measures, but also risky. One cannot go on with a passive vision of industrial policy, which has only been done to encourage de-industrialisation. Speaking of certainties, not investing in industrial policy is expensive and hence the need now not to make the same mistakes. The past serves us to learn what we must do and what we must not do and to look above all at the future. I am going to focus on three sectors and the effect of the crises on them, but I believe that it will also be extrapolable to other sectors affected by this crisis and that they will also need the same reflection and ministry to attend to them. With regard to the machine tool, the long periods of duration of its products enabled its workload. However, new orders, technical assistance services, the reception of factory machinery, the inability to travel, to meet customers and to meet them, all of which are essential activities, have stopped almost all the demand. Moreover, this is going to have a much bigger reflection from September onwards. The aviation sector is one of the worst off due to the drastic reduction in overall air mobility, with a 90 % drop in passenger traffic. The manufacturing cadences of the different models of the main customers of the companies of the sector have sunk, especially because of the cancellation and lack of new orders of the airlines and, moreover, because of the great uncertainty future. Automotive. It represents 10% of GDP. The data are eloquent: their production has fallen by 97.5 for tourism and 98 % for export. The COVID has resulted in the breakdown of its own supply model, based on a supply chain of just-in-time parts: factory stoppage, car stoppage as a result of the collapse of demand due to confinement, restrictions on mobility and closure of sales dealers. In addition, it has dragged the component and auxiliary industry. It is also a sector that was immersed in the transformation of its business model: change of product towards electrification, obligation to meet emission reduction targets, uncertainty in regulation, and with a low sales market. These sectors, Minister, are addressing this situation with the implementation of adjustment measures to adapt to the new reality of the market, reducing their operating costs and their productive and organizational capacity, maintaining employment and re-adjusting the partial organization of their work so as not to lose the talent of the people. But these measures alone are not enough, they need more flexibility to adapt, because uncertainty is about to stay for a while and they need a safer and more predictable environment for new investments, avoiding bottlenecks and obstacles. We all know that the productive sectors make their long-term decisions, and this again requires certainty and legal certainty. And beyond short-term shock measures, a coordinated plan is also needed to support industry, to reactivate investment, an investment that also generates economic and social return, and for industry to be able to face with financial muscle not only the economic consequences of COVID, but also the new challenges it is going to face. Spain, once again, is going to lag behind in giving an industrial response in this new context. While the competitors of Europe, France, Germany, and the rest of the countries already have specific support, plans to maintain and strengthen the most competitive industry, here these sectors, in the absence of specific government news, are defending themselves and adapting to the new market circumstances. Two certainties, Minister: while France has an automotive plan, here the announced one is delayed; while yesterday France announced a plan for the aeronautical sector, here, for the moment, does not even arise. You also tell me something more about that announced automotive plan today, but I'm sure you'll be going back to talking about the ICO lines, the ERTEs; horizontal, general and valid measures for all sectors, without taking into account their specificities. Obviously, they are positive measures. We have supported with our vote all the royal decrees regulating these measures, but I also say to you that, with regard to ERTE, you have to talk and coordinate with the Minister of Labour. They extend ERTE sectorally by force majeure until the end of the year and facilitate an agile and flexible transition to new ERTE for economic and organizational reasons. It is a decision that must be made now. We are not asking you generalised ERTE, we are talking about ERTE for sectors that are competitive, because they have product and market, because they are viable sectors, with growth potential and that generate value through innovation, but they still need and for a longer period of time more flexibility to accompany the return of business activity and to be able to reintegrate the entire workforce as there is demand. It is because of something that ERTE is characterized by flexicurity: to facilitate the flexibility of the company to adapt to new situations, especially in crisis situations, and safety for workers. There is a need for a shared strategy based on the assets available. We must build on the existing and give them a new impetus to sustain the activity and employment of the sector in the short term. But future competitiveness must also be improved. That is why these sectors should continue to be supported in the short term by the extension of ERTs and, in the medium and long term, by ad hoc planning. We are aware of the effort we are making, Minister, but they also have the SURE programme for Europe to do so. With regard to certainty and legal certainty, it is the Government that has the regulatory capacity to create the right conditions for companies to invest, compete in the market, generate wealth and employment; to give positive signals to investors and consumers in a cross-cutting way between the ministries of Industry, Ecological Transition, Economy, Digital Transformation, Labour; and to take measures to address a shock plan in the face of the challenges not only of COVID, but of Industry 4.0. We know something about this; we have already gone through an industrial conversion and are ready to tie our shoulders with a shared strategy, a common strategy that brings together efforts to meet the present, but above all the future of these sectors, which are key in the economy. It is necessary to defend the existing industry, to ensure its sustainability, to build - as I said - on existing capacities and, in turn, to develop a new industry. Industry is a key sector to get out of this crisis and a good shock absorber for the future. That is why we insist that it is not the time for a residual ministry, but for a ministry that has to lead this industrial conversion. There are no good or bad industries, but there are good or bad ways to do things. That is why we need a long-term and continuity strategy, progressively integrating all the actors involved. Minister, one of the main demands of the sector has historically been that there be a Ministry of Industry that understands and promotes these necessary industrial policies, especially that it listens to and accompanies the sector. The sector is waiting; it is time to push the whole industry, education and research to create a productive scientific ecosystem, with public support, geared to production demands. That is why today we bring this inquiry, so that we can explain what it will do for these key sectors of the economy, automotive, aeronautical, machine tools, because they are competitive, because they have product and market, because they are viable, because they have growth potential and because they generate value through innovation. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u170	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u171	Thank you, President. The truth is that, Mrs Sagastizabal, the question you asked me was what measures were planned to give flexibility to the key sectors of the Spanish economy. We have just been talking about tourism with Mr Quevedo; probably the tourism sector will be the key sector for the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands; but we will certainly talk about industry and we will talk about these three activities that are so important for the Basque Country and for the Spanish economy as a whole. I thank him for the interpellation because it certainly allows us to talk - as he said - about the key sectors to lay the foundations for the economic and social reconstruction of our country after the devastating effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. As you have pointed out, the health crisis has had - and continues to have - a very serious impact on the different economic sectors, especially - as you noted - in the automotive, aeronautical or tooling industry, which has endured at first, but which now, in fact, has a complicated horizon and the short-term indicators indicate that, in fact, this is happening. As I said, industry has slowed down its activity, with supply problems in global chains, but also by a significant drop in demand, both at the national and international levels. Look, we must not forget that we are facing a global economic crisis. The International Monetary Fund itself has described it as the 'Grand Block'. I point out this perspective because it would seem, for all the interventions, that Spain is in a national economic crisis, but we must be aware that the international economy and global economic recovery is a priority, especially in the three sectors that you have commented on, which are highly exporting. The difference in this economic and social crisis is its origin, it originates in a pandemic and, therefore, the urgency at the time of the start of the pandemic on the agenda not only of Spain, but of all the countries affected, was to protect the health of the population and save lives. The urgent thing was health, although - as you say - the economy is also important. And to protect health it was necessary to adopt the state of alarm, a constitutional instrument that has allowed control of the pandemic and, at the same time, has allowed us to gradually and securely recover economic activity. I would like once again to thank you and your parliamentary group for their responsibility in supporting the validation of the numerous royal decree-laws and the successive extensions of the state of alarm, which have been fundamental in the short term to control the pandemic, to cushion that negative impact on the productive fabric and employment, undoubtedly extraordinary measures, but, Your Honor, which are allowing the country to be sustained, are that containment dam that will allow us to reactivate the economy more quickly. Since the beginning of the pandemic - and you and your group have supported all the measures adopted in this House - an ambitious safety net has been set up to cushion the negative impacts of the pandemic, measures aimed at providing businesses and the self-employed from different economic sectors with a flexible framework that would enable them to survive, to protect millions of workers affected by temporary employment regulation measures, ERTs that have made it possible to protect more than 3 million workers. At the moment - this morning Minister Escrivá gave the data - 700 000 of the workers affected by the ERTE have already been incorporated - which gives the impression that economic activity is beginning to recover - and another 200 000 have been incorporated in May. The extraordinary termination benefit knows that it has protected more than 1.3 million self-employed people and at present the ICO is offering liquidity to more than 371,000 businesses in all economic sectors. He said that we do not need to remember this data, but we are still with the shock plan and we are still actually seeing the results of this plan, and behind each measure there are people, there are companies and, therefore, it is fair to put them in the debate as well. At the moment we are moving towards the new normality, economic activity is gradually recovering and also, as I said, securely to avoid any resurgence of the pandemic that would undoubtedly have very negative effects. We are gradually rebuilding our productive fabric, recovering part of the lost employment, and it shows this is the data I have just given you from Social Security. Most of Spain is already in phase 3 of the descalation and it is now that we must focus all our efforts on recovering the productive capacity of our economy, especially in the sectors most affected by the pandemic, among which, as I pointed out, automation, but not only automation, Mrs Sagastizabal, certainly tourism, but also trade - very important also the action of your Government in the field of trade in the Basque Country - are also necessary to reactivate in a joint way all economic activity. Right now we have to be proactive to recover an element that is key, trust. We have a demand crisis and, therefore, we need the confidence of tourists to come to Spain, in consumption, to recover the pre-pandemic levels; in short, to recover that path of future growth and that to a large extent depends also on that plan to which you have referred to the recovery of the European Union, where Spain is leading a very different response to that of the 2008 crisis and which will allow us to channel important resources to support the key sectors to which it has referred. I'll talk about it later. At the moment, as I said, we are working on various sectoral plans, one of them - I mentioned earlier - is that of the tourism sector and the other of the automotive sector because of its important weight in GDP and employment, but also in social and territorial cohesion; plans to support businesses and continue to protect and support workers. And he agrees with me - and he has pointed out this - that it is necessary to continue working for the ERTE to extend beyond 30 June. As you know, they are a tool that favours the adjustment of employment: to go, rather than to lay off, to hours; to promote training; the irregular distribution of working hours; the professional reorientation of workers who cannot be immediately incorporated into their jobs. As you know, the representatives of the Commissions, UGT, CEOE and Cepyme, and together with the Government, are currently working on the adaptation of ERTs following the de-escalation process, and we hope, as you said, that agreement will be reached as soon as possible. We need certainties, our productive sectors need to know what will happen after June 30th in order to adapt to this new normality. It would certainly be great news that all sectors of all economic activities require greater internal flexibility, I insist, and we are working on this within the tripartite committee. I am not going to talk about tourism because I have already referred to Mr Quevedo as the pillars of the plan we are working on. You were talking to me about industry and, in fact, the President announced two weeks ago that we are working on a plan to boost the automotive industry, in the context of a transition to a more sustainable economic model, taking advantage of the positioning of this sector as a strategic industry, and focusing on efforts to achieve technological autonomy vis-à-vis third parties, both in our country and throughout the European Union, which guarantees the strength and also the resilience necessary to face this serious health crisis. It is a plan that will have short-term measures, which will be implemented and implemented this year, but also medium- and long-term strategic measures that will also allow us to orient, as I said, that transition in which our automotive sector finds itself. All measures are designed to boost the car industry throughout the value chain, so that stable and high-quality employment is maintained and strengthened, investments and innovation are multiplied to accelerate the evolution of the existing fleet towards cleaner and more sustainable vehicles, ultimately to consolidate our car industry, which, as you know, is a world leader. These are measures that are structured around six major pillars, to which I shall refer briefly. The first, the urgent renovation of the vehicle fleet, which, as you know, is developed through stimulating demand for more efficient vehicles. The second of the pillars is investment, which is investment to stimulate the modernization of vehicle manufacturing by our automotive industry. The third, the drive for R & D+i through projects such as sustainable mobility missions, which, as you know, is leading the CDTI. Fourthly, the adjustment of the taxation of the automotive sector. The fifth of the pillars concerns the liquidity and financing of companies, which, as you know, we are already doing through the ICO lines, and the last one is a very important area which has to do with vocational training and qualification measures. These are issues on which we are working with the sector and with the social partners, as we have already been doing, Your Honor, over these two years. In fact, I would like to remind you that in March last year we already presented a plan to support the car sector with a 2025 horizon that, as I pointed out, as a result of the different elections that practically paralyzed the country for months, but also as a result of the fact that no budgets were approved, those of 2019, which were the road map to develop this plan, we believe today that it must be strengthened. This is the will of the Government to strengthen this plan so that the sector is a sector that is moving towards more efficient and sustainable mobility models. These tractor projects are very aligned with the European agenda, as I said, because we have to push for projects that will enable us to develop capacities in the medium and long term. And there Spain is leading, together with other European countries, that the European reconstruction plan has a very important part of investment in the automotive sector; investment that will allow us to further develop productive capacities towards that sustainable mobility that we have talked about. A plan in which, as you know, the Spanish Government is exercising clear leadership in Europe. We have asked for support of around EUR 750 billion and, as you know, our country will be one of the main beneficiaries. [[The lady]] I finish now, because I have very little time left, saying that we are acting with determination and speed to sustain all the key sectors of our economy, no doubt those that you have pointed out, for their important weight in GDP and in attracting investment and exports. I am convinced that if we work together, we will be much better prepared for this crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u172	Thank you very much, Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. I give the floor to Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u173	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister, for your intervention. We agree that the crisis is global. The truth is that I would have liked to have picked up the ERTE's flexibility glove more forcefully, but I'll settle for them to study it. I've been talking about the car plan. Do you know what I missed? The agreement and consensus with the Autonomous Communities, because I believe they will have worked with the sector, but not with the Autonomous Communities, and I know that they are aware of the industrial capacities, the capacities of this sector and the assets available. And I am aware that they have sent him a letter along with eight autonomous communities to set up a table of dialogue, especially for the automotive plan. Having said that, we believe that it is necessary to define a coherent road map shared by the economic, social, autonomous communities and political parties, in order to overcome problems in the short term, but also with a medium-term horizon to define future projects at sectoral and cross-cutting level. You have always told us about the strength of the industry, we too, but what the epidemic has shown us is one of its greatest weaknesses, and it is its external dependence, but it has also shown us something else, the brown capacity to resettle. They have demonstrated skills they do not know, so I think that they need to be explored, that they know how to exploit them. There are sectors I have spoken of today that have shown us the capacity for diversification, entrepreneurship, R & D & I and their proactive attitude. They have been able to adapt their factories and machinery to new needs in the absence of an industrial policy, as they did in 2008 with their external exit. That is why I believe that there is a need for support, both in the short term and in the medium or long term, to lay the foundations for a genuine industrial policy. It is his ministry that has to lead this conversion, take advantage of the determination and attitude of the sector so that this adverse situation can be overcome. The measures taken to safeguard industry will be decisive for future development and growth. Industry, and specifically these sectors I have spoken about, with a high impact on employment, economic development, tractors of others, highly exporting and innovative, need, as I have told you, more time to organize their productive capacity and their business over the course of these months. It is therefore necessary to adapt their productive capacity to the new circumstances. That is why I repeat again that it is necessary to extend ERTEs by force greater automatically, taking into account the specificities of these sectors, as well as to offer an agile and flexible transition to new ERTEs for economic and organizational reasons, and it is that labour regulations at the moment are also crucial as a lever for the maintenance of the productive system. It is the way to safeguard jobs and give these sectors a higher level of oxygen so as not to drown them while they recompose. An early withdrawal of these ERTEs can unnecessarily damage the productive fabric and, therefore, the employment in these sectors, which, as I have said, have room for manoeuvre and of course for recomposition. Minister, we are interested in industrial policy as an engine and lever of change in this globalized world. I would like to reiterate its good intentions, and therefore encourage it to take the risk and take the lead in promoting a real industrial policy, prioritizing the key sectors of the economy, and to do so in a cross-cutting way with the ministries of Industry, Ecological Transition, Economics and Digital Transformation, in collaboration and coordination with the autonomous communities, because industrial instruments and policies fall, yes, in a very important or relevant part in the autonomic areas, in which I know, as I have said, that they are firmly committed to an industry 4.0, a digitalised industry and aligned with sustainability to improve industrial competitiveness, which will certainly result in greater and better jobs and greater and better wages. It is necessary to create a social climate that consolidates industry, because it is the basis for getting out of the crisis, for generating employment and for providing resources to the system, guaranteeing the social benefits that this crisis demands and leaving no one behind. To redistribute, it is necessary to consolidate and create businesses. Minister, as you say, certain and clear policies already. The sector is still waiting for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u175	Thank you very much. Thank you for your intervention, which is certainly important in the debate, and because we are now engaged in a debate, it has to be constructive on what are going to be the pillars of economic and social reconstruction, both at the tables that are being held in this House and in the Committee on Industry, Trade and Tourism itself, where - as you know - interventions from all economic sectors are also being developed, and I am convinced of that road map that I set as a priority for this government at the beginning of this parliamentary term: this pact for industry, this modernization of an industry law dating back to 1992 and which certainly does not respond to the industry that this country needs, but also the strategy that we approved and that is the framework for talking about industry in 2030, the sectoral agendas. Finally, he could be reporting these two years of government action. You say that the sectors are waiting for us; the sectors, Your Honor, have found us. They were hoping to recover a Ministry of Industry Trade and Tourism and, no doubt, they have found us. In these two years we have adopted agendas that have made it possible to place the importance of industry at the centre of policy, but also of public opinion. I take this opportunity - because you pointed it out when you talk about this reinvention of the industry as a result of the COVID - to thank all the companies and all the people who in a generous way put themselves to work to save lives. Many projects have been developed; you know the Mondragon Corporation, which worked and collaborated very closely with the Government to be able to have today a supply of masks that protects us from that virus called COVID. Therefore, industry is reinvented, industry is put at the service of society and therefore, Your Honor - and in this I do not have to convince you - we need to increase the weight of industry in our country. That 20% target that Spain should be meeting this year, unfortunately, is lagging far behind what the targets are. I pledge myself, Your Honor, because you have so moved me, to create that table for automotive, with the participation of the autonomous communities. I have already spoken to one of the advisers and advisers long before the letter came to me, and in particular to her adviser, and also to the Generalitat adviser to deal with that crisis, which is also politically necessary to respond, which is the Nissan crisis, to those workers who need a commitment from governments and social partners to save so many jobs that depend on that sector. So let us also serve this forum to express the Government's commitment to that car table that this country needs, where all - administrations, social actors and also society as a whole - let us make the automotive sector that pillar that it has been, that it is and that I am convinced that it will continue to be to draw our territories, and that great pillar that we are working on and to which we are committed, that is to address the demographic challenge. Because, no doubt, if there is one sector - and there are many - that contributes very clearly to the demographic challenge, it is the automotive sector. So serve this rostrum as well so that that commitment is shared. I'm done. I believe that this Government has a desire for dialogue and consensus. We have demonstrated this over these two years and, therefore, the reconstruction table has to serve to lay the foundations of those levers that Spain needs not only to get out of the crisis of the COVID, but to get out reinforced with a strength that depends on all of us. I appeal again to the responsibility of all political forces to build our wonderful country. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u176	Thank you very much, Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u177	We continue with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, there is the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 19/2020 of 26 May, which adopts complementary measures in the fields of agriculture, science, economics, employment and social security, and taxation to alleviate the effects of COVID-19. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u178	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear on behalf of the Government to ask for the validation of Royal Decree-Law 19/2020, which provides for the extension of certain extraordinary measures in the field of agricultural employment which, as you will recall, we adopted as a result of the declaration of the state of alarm a few weeks ago, as well as of other social and labour measures which have been shown to be essential in order to cope with the times at which we are faced, and particularly the health crisis and its consequences, from the point of view of health, but also from the economic and social point of view. This is a choral work, this is a royal decree-law that involves nine ministries, which has up to twenty-two main themes in its content - I will stop only in the most significant ones -. It covers the agricultural areas, as I have indicated, but also scientific, economic, employment and social security and taxation, all of them to promote the recovery of our economy, economic recovery and social recovery, and to ensure that all the rules that we have adopted in the Government since the declaration of the state of alarm are properly complemented and allow us to achieve, in this new phase where we enter and in this new period, the best collective results for the whole of Spanish society, for all Spaniards and, ultimately, for Spain. I shall start with measures in the agricultural field, also in fisheries and related matters. As you will recall, the Royal Decree-Law 13/2020, which was a genuine innovation in agricultural employment, established extraordinary measures of flexibility to maintain agricultural activity and, in particular, the recruitment of temporary workers until 30 June this year, all to ensure all the necessary agricultural activities, those relating to the basically fruit and vegetables sector, and all those ordinary maintenance and activities in the agricultural and livestock sector. I would say that the objective of this royal decree-law has been achieved, to the extent that not a single agrarian task has remained to be done because of the lack of workers willing to do so. I believe that this is an economic and social achievement, which is why I am bringing this extension to your ladies and gentlemen until 30 September, in order to give greater peace and security to the whole of the agricultural sector. As stated earlier, this Royal Decree-Law 13/2020, as a complement to ordinary recruitment and also to the facilitation of the passage to the different stages and the rules on the control of external borders, has allowed us to return certain workers - for example, permanent discontinuous workers who were in previous campaigns present in the sector - to carry them out from the end of June. I therefore believe that the objective has been achieved, and I thank your ladies and gentlemen for the majority support they gave at the time to the royal decree-law, the extension of which we are bringing today. A second aspect is that of one of the social consequences, I would say that small in number, but very significant from the point of view of involvement, which refers to a migration issue, the granting of a residence and work permit to those young foreigners between eighteen and twenty-one years old who have actually received and worked, under this royal decree-law, and to whom the Government considers that they should be given at least one residence and a two-year work permit, which can be extended by two more years. A third point that is very specific, but important, is the amendment of the State Maritime Fisheries Act to allow the shellfish sector and, in particular, the majority of its players, who are women - shellfish - to benefit from the European aid that we have obtained when the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund becomes more flexible. That's why we bring that change. Finally, a point of social security, but linked to the agricultural sector, which is the amendment of the General Social Security Act. As you know, a self-employed worker under the Special Agricultural Scheme may have up to two workers. In some cases there were holdings of two holders, and in order to allow a third worker to be employed and to maintain his status as self-employed in the Special Agricultural Scheme, we bring this amendment before your ladies and gentlemen. The second specific area of this royal decree-law is the scientist. The European Union is carrying out an ambitious programme to develop fusion as an energy source, in an unprecedented international partnership that affects a number of countries, China, Korea, India, Japan, Russia and others. In this context Spain submitted in August 2017 a candidacy under the Ifmif-Dones Programme to carry out a project to carry out these tasks. The decree contains the authorization of the creation of a consortium between the Government of Spain and the Junta de Andalucía so that such a project, whose candidacy was presented - as I said - in August 2017, can be carried out, task of the Ministry of Science and Innovation. In the economic sphere, there are a number of measures to which I would like to refer. Firstly, in the field of telecommunications, as you will recall, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the decree of the state of alarm - and in order to be able to concentrate on the essential task of managing communications - portability and the possibility of keeping mobile phone numbers during this period were suspended. Well, in this royal decree-law we lift that suspension, so that we can proceed again to something that I believe the citizens as a whole appreciate very much. As well as a second aspect, because of the economic and social implications of the current situation, i.e. the possibility of splitting and postponing the debt that individual subscribers may have, from the moment of the state of alarm until 30 June, in connection with their expenses in terms of telephone and data. Secondly, on the economic front. The recommendation of the European Central Bank, the banking supervisor, that credit institutions refrain from distributing dividends and from making irrevocable commitments to distribute them for the years 2019 and 2020, has a practical consequence in relation to bank foundations and, logically, to dividends, which are their source of financing. Therefore, following what the European Central Bank indicated, we have decided to suspend the obligation to provide the Reserve Fund this year in such a way that the legislation can be complied with in this extraordinary circumstance in which we find ourselves. Another very important measure in this economic area is the European temporary support instrument to mitigate the risks of unemployment in an emergency, the so-called SURE instrument, which, as you know, has been able to provide up to EUR 100 billion in the Eurogroup area. It is very important because it is clearly a mechanism to support the financing of ERTs in terms of unemployment coverage. Of these 100 billion, 25 billion are supported by the Member States in relation to the share of their gross national product. Spain is responsible for a figure slightly higher than the EUR 2 billion to be endorsed, and in this royal decree-law the Minister of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation is authorized to subscribe to the corresponding endorsement. Likewise, in terms of guarantees, you know that with the National State Greetings Programme - for the amount of EUR 100 billion we have given as a liquidity response in this situation - budgetary coverage is given through this royal decree-law to this measure adopted. Finally, in this economic area, a final measure refers to what is called the non-mortgage moratorium, regulated by Royal Decree-Law 11/2020 of 31 March. Article 21 of this Royal Decree-Law is amended so that financial leases can also be included within its scope. The fourth area of application is labour and social security standards. The Royal Decree-Law 18/2020 is amended to incorporate references to the Social Institute of the Navy and to facilitate the implementation of ERTs in this area. There is a measure on which I would like to stop for a moment, because it seems particularly significant to me that it is the recognition as an accident at work of social security benefits that causes staff serving in health and social health centres, in the exercise of their profession, who have contracted the disease - on the occasion and, of course, the cause of COVID-19 - during any phase of this pandemic, because they have been professionally exposed to this risk. We have made an express recognition, I believe, of the work of the front-line health workers, which, from the point of view of work and social security, is a minimum recognition of their work that we must mean. Finally, the fifth area is the tax and budgetary area. In this area, of the measures included in the Royal Decree-Law, I have indicated to your ladies and gentlemen only those which have a more relevant significance. The first concerns budgetary changes in the expenditure budget of the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, which provide social security for the financing of non-contributory benefits, and also to balance the impact on social security accounts resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. Secondly, the extension to four months of the repayment period of interest on the postponements of article 14 of Royal Decree-Law 7/2020. Thirdly, to facilitate the declaration of corporation tax by extending to 15 November the deadline by which the ordinary general meeting of the company concerned may take place. And also in this area, and exceptionally for the year 2020 and until 30 September, the period of time in which the list of fraudsters will be made public to the Public Treasury. Finally, in this area, I would like to refer to the acceptance of the amendment of the current rule on the expenditure limit on public remuneration, in order to make possible the application, for this year, by 2020, of the agreement signed between the Ministry of the Interior, the trade unions of the National Police and the associations of the Civil Guard on agreements on tax equalization. As you see, ladies and gentlemen - and I have made a brief summary - these are a set of measures which all of them are complementary to those already adopted by this Government, which are in the sense of seeking the earliest recovery of our economy and of our society, and obviously in the service of Spain and of all the Spaniards, which is why I ask you to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u179	Thank you very much, Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u180	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Let me tell you that you have earned the salary today, because you have converted it into a multi-minister to present this vast royal decree-law in which, in addition to agrarianism, it also affects scientific matter, the economy, employment and social security, as well as tax measures to alleviate the effects of COVID-19. I will support the validation of this royal decree-law, the content of which you have just explained, although I trust that, if approved, its processing will be carried out as a bill by the urgency procedure, because there are some issues that can be improved, as I will try to reflect below. However, I would like to comment on something that draws attention to the normative text that is before this House, such as the immoderate extension of the explanatory statement which, once again, as if it were a side effect of the excessive application of the state of alarm in the Council of Ministers, reaches almost half the pages of this Royal Decree-Law 19/2020. It is a circumstance that does not cease to produce distrust in a norm that consists of twelve articles, since it seems that what is sought is to predispose the reader about the goodness of what is to come next, reminding us of the famous Latin expression: excusatio non petita, accusatio manifesto. But it is not only the quantity, but also the quality. If we go to the text of the explanatory statement itself, we see that it tends to repeat the content of the article by praising its goodness and those of the Government, without respecting what must be the true essence of every preamble, which is precisely to explain the reasons that have led the delegated legislator to decide to implement a series of administrative changes due to a previous factual situation that advises his intervention. It is therefore relevant to know what the statement of reasons for interpreting the norm in the light of its spirit and purpose says, and it cannot serve other purposes such as those that appear to be pursued by the Government, which are no more than merely propaganda. This new style of the legislator, which already generates packaging, is being a constant in the Government's actions throughout this XIV Legislature, as I have already had occasion to point out in this rostrum in previous validations, and I have not been the only one who has done so. If it continues its current progress, it is not impossible to rule out that in this legislature the explanatory statements end at the end of the normative text rather than at the beginning and change their denomination to that of morale, which would be appropriate given the legislative drift of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, going back to the wording of this royal decree-law, and despite the fact that the explanatory statement is also intended to justify the extraordinary and urgent need, it is true that there are issues referred to in the rule in which it can be considered that such circumstances do not clearly compete, such as those relating to fishing sanctions in view of the size of the molluscs or the application for an application for the construction of a demonstration plant for electric fusion energy. Neither of these two issues has any bearing on COVID-19, nor does the urgent need for the adoption of these standards seem to be appreciated. With regard to the specific measures proposed, Article 3 provides for a division and deferral of debts in electronic communications services, which does not provide for any requirement with respect to the economic conditions of the applicant. It would have been appropriate because an unnecessary postponement and/or general fragmentation may endanger the financial stability of some of the operators in the sector. It should also be noted that in a text called to become law, certain aspects are developed in detail and in concrete form that should be dealt with on a regulatory basis, such as articles 6, 7 and 8, which refer to moratoriums on financing operations, which shows a poor legislative technique. On the basis of this conclusion, it is also necessary to ask why the Government continues to turn its back on the Council of State in this new legislative product, when its necessary participation is known, in addition to its relevant assistance in trying to improve the rules. Finally, I would like to refer to article 9, entitled: Consideration as occupational contingency arising from an accident at work of diseases suffered by staff serving in health or social health facilities as a result of the SARS-CoV2 virus infection during the state of alarm. In the Government's desire to issue news reports in front of the gallery - or rather of the broadcaster - this rule is issued which may have the purpose of harming the collective to which it is supposed to benefit, and this is because the factual assumption referred to in article 9 of our current legislative framework would be described as a professional disease, as provided for in article 157 of the General Social Security Act and its development regulations. What is now being done with this royal decree-law is to introduce prejudicial requirements for the need for accreditation by occupational risk prevention and occupational health services, which, in the case of occupational disease, would not be necessary. Less understandable is the temporary validity for contagions produced up to one month after the state of alarm or for deaths after five years. What about the later ones? Are they again considered occupational disease? In conclusion, this article, either is a misconception, or is a further punishment for health professionals who have suffered so much from this crisis and who, rather than applause and toast to the sun, need their prevention work rights and conditions to be timely and effectively respected. In any case - and I conclude, Madam President - I will support the validation of this royal decree-law and its urgent processing as a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u181	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u182	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going to be very brief today. We are back to discussing a new decree, specifically the 19/2020, on measures of a diverse nature to counter the impact of COVID-19; a decree-law that is already part of a series of norms adopted as a matter of urgency, all of which are in keeping with a clear purpose, which is to deal with this pandemic. [[The lady]] Its long explanatory statement - we understand - adequately justifies, with regard to most of the measures, the extraordinary and urgent need that leads to their approval by the Government, thus complying with the conditions contained in article 86 of the Constitution. Minister, you know that so far we have supported with loyalty and will in accordance with almost all the decrees, but also with demands, and today we will also do so. We will support this decree, whose objectives, of course, we share. In addition, I have to say that this decree provides for certain measures, such as lifting the suspension of portability and suspending the obligation to contribute to the reserve fund of bank foundations, which were requested by this group and which have been met. I would like to make some nuances in relation to some measures that we believe should be improved or nuanced. We do not understand, Minister, that the extension of work in the agricultural sector and in intensive farms of foreign workers, although we consider it correct and see it well, is only until 30 September, since this date leaves aside some agricultural activities, such as harvest. This measure should perhaps be extended until the end of the year. In addition, work and residence permits for foreigners have a duration of two years, which can be extended by two others. We find ourselves in a situation similar to that of permanent discontinuous workers and this circumstance advises to regularize the situation of many of these foreign workers, in our opinion, through the procedures of rooting provided for in articles 32 of the Aliens Act, Law 4/2000, amended by Law 4/2009, and in article 124 of Royal Decree 537/2011. As regards measures relating to the scope of the mortgage moratorium, I have to say that they are positive. It is true that regulations are laid down which skip secularly established rules that provide stability and security to our legal traffic, but we are in a situation of extraordinary exceptionality that also requires the setting of exceptional rules. That is why, in general, the proposed wording seems to us to be positive, since, despite this exceptionality, it does not result in excesses which may eventually become ineffective. We have also appreciated technical issues that should be improved, as well as aspects relating to legal certainty and the performance of public fedataries. On the other hand, tax measures are regulated which we consider appropriate. And finally, with regard to the third transitional provision, we believe that the distinction between the two periods provided for in the latter is meaningless, in the first paragraph of which it is considered to be derived from a common contingency until the date of entry into force of Royal Decree 19/2020, this qualification being extended if the process of temporary incapacity continues until its termination by the medical officer, and the professional contingency qualification in the event of relapse, once the contingency of an accident at work has been recognized. For this reason, despite these small nuances, which are rather of a technical nature, we will, of course, vote in favour of the validation of the decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u183	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u184	Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[The Lord]] Today we are debating the Royal Decree-Law 19/2020, a decree with a lot of different subjects, although in principle there are much more important issues and we will focus on them, given the short time we have. They are very varied topics and all seek to expand the measures adopted in previous royal decree-laws or to establish complementary measures that support the descalade. Some of these initiatives have helped more than others, others have been halfway to solving the real problems of citizens, and others have been sold by the Government as major solutions but we know from the sector that they are not working properly. It is curious that this royal decree has been used to introduce a measure taken to the Council of Ministers in a surprising way and that it has been proposed not to think of the citizens or the people to whom it will help, but to distract the citizens from one of the most shameful scandals of this government in recent weeks and in which Mr Marlaska has participated. The Government takes advantage of this Royal Decree-Law 19/2020 to approve the payment of the third tranche of the salary increase to our State Security Forces and Bodies, although not salary equalization, of course. We are in favour of this measure, because we are defending our State Security Forces and Bodies. However, it was announced that it would not reach 2020; that, in any case, only when there was a budget; never by decree, and never before summer. But it turns out that, within the worst economic crisis we are experiencing in recent years and making it coincide with the unanimous criticism of the Government for the treatment and discredit inflicted on the Civil Guard, they bring it into this royal decree. The State Security Forces and Bodies are used, but they are not respected. By the way, other ministers of this Government, such as Mr Garzón, who said in a public interview that there may be reactionary elements in the armed institute or in the police - and I quote textually - who take up the speech calling for a coup d'état - continue to contribute to this discredit. It's incredible and unforgivable. We in Citizens have already asked the ministry and the government to explain these statements. We have already spoken a great deal about this subject and have addressed Mr Marlaska on several occasions, but I will tell him two more things.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u185	Your Honor, I have to ask you to get back to the debate we are in.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u186	Isn't this in the royal decree?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u187	I am referring not to what you have already mentioned, but to the drift in which you continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u188	We took the opportunity to request Mr Marlaska's resignation again. Let us focus on the other issues that are also very important. Given the time constraints, we will focus on the important ones. Agrarian employment. The Royal Decree 13/2020 has arrived with solutions for agricultural employment that we consider insufficient, and now it brings an enlargement that we also see insufficient. We remind the minister again and put on the table those initiatives that we proposed, such as creating a digital platform that a supply and demand in the agricultural sector, that some organizations have put in place and that have worked very well. We believe that they are measures that can serve now and also in the future, they can come to stay. We are also quite pleased that the two-year extension for foreigners between eighteen and twenty-one years has been approved for the initiatives of that Royal Decree 13/2020, which I have previously appointed. But we believe that, given the moment of the descalation in which we find ourselves, it would also be necessary to try to give mobility to the provinces that are in need of labour on time. The SURE Fund. This royal decree contains the authorization of the guarantees to ensure the participation of Spain in the mechanism to mitigate the risks of unemployment in an emergency. It would be interesting if it were operational before June. We are therefore pleased that the Government has already launched it and included it in this royal decree. The ICO endorsements. This is the measure I referred to before and from the Ministry of Finance we have given some numbers that we understand are not real. They do not show the reality, since the sector, businesses and the self-employed have said, even in the Committee on Social and Economic Reconstruction, that they are not enough and that they are not arriving properly. We want to have that data and to know why these guarantees have not been given to help businesses and self-employed people by establishing or proposing another series of aid. The best news of all this royal decree is to protect those who have protected us, the health care workers, and to recognize as an occupational accident the infection by the COVID-19. It's incomprehensible that it hasn't been done before. It has taken two months to make the decision, they arrive late and reach half because it will not cover the people who have caused casualties before the approval of this royal decree. We believe that those people who have arrived later must be included, but also that it is insufficient to stop this measure and not to implement it as of 22 June, when the state of alarm ends. The virus is still there, there's no vaccine, and our health workers are still working, they're still at the foot of the cannon. So please untie this measure from the state of alarm because, if we really appreciate our health care providers, it is essential. Tax measures. As far as corporate tax is concerned, its presentation should have been delayed; it is the only thing, and the easiest thing, to give a solution to small businesses. The only thing that has been collected here is that the deadline for the formulation and approval of the annual accounts is extended. It's insufficient. What they need is to delay them. And why? Because the fact that the annual accounts are presented twice or supplementary declarations is more burdensome for taxpayers and also the payment of interest on delay. At least check that, that they have no interest in delay, as they will not implement the rest of the measures. There are a lot of tax measures that should have been envisaged and not envisaged, such as the extension of the deadline for this year's IRPF. If it had taken place in September, many people who are paid out could benefit from this delay in payment during these early moments of descalation. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u189	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. A little more than a minute to explain why we are going to abstain, because we understand that in this decree there are positive elements and others that we do not value as such. Again, they say that we have to validate emergency legislation, in this case with an amalgamation of reforms of different themes, some of dubious urgency and others dedicated to self-correcting, amending previous decree-laws. Among the issues that can doubtless justify the urgency of the health crisis of the COVID-19 is, for example, the modification of the sanctioning regime of the State Maritime Fisheries Act, which considers the first sale of molluscs of less than the size or weight to be mild, a change that we consider appropriate in terms of size, but not so much in the case of weight, and they would know if, instead of unilaterally legislating, they spoke to the sector. It is also agreed to amend Law 26/2013 on Savings Funds and Banking Foundations, so that the creation of the contingency reserve fund can be delayed in case they do not bet on reducing their majority position, worrying about the bank, which will not be able to distribute dividends, but companies, which must pay the corporation tax, are required to pay interest in the event that their provisional settlement, because they do not have the final accounts as a result of the COVID-19, would require regularization because they have missed their income, but interest is not paid if it were reversed. And I'm done. In order to help individuals and SMEs with their mortgages and loans, they continue to bet on moratoria instead of condoning them, but families and self-employed people will have equally serious difficulties in two or three months to deal with ordinary bills and, in addition, those that correspond, so they are simply measures that delay the problem, encourage indebtedness but do not resolve it, in our opinion.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u191	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] I now give the floor to Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In these two minutes, and with your permission, I will try to mark the position of Compromís in the two decrees - in this and the next - because plural groups sometimes have difficulties. It'll be just two lines, two lines alone. The first decree seems relevant to us. We're going to approve this and the next. I particularly believe that it is relevant in the extension of the period of agricultural procurement, although, probably, in matters of harvest - as the PNV spokesman has said - we have to advance it. As far as artists are concerned, it seems to us that these measures can also be taken because they were left out. But I'm going to point out some things that are still out. Technicians who work in culture stay out. And it is still out - and I say this so that you in the Council of Ministers can discuss it - some sectors, such as that of street sales, fair attractions and hospitality, because on 14 March they were not discharged. And also the autonomous transporters - especially the smaller ones - in the postponement of the quotas of the trucks. And in the second decree, that of minimum living income, we will vote yes. It seems to us a fair and necessary decree. We gave the majority to this Government just to do this, and we do it very well because we see that the undecided right and the ruthless right did not make it clear. Well, some didn't make it clear, but now they do. We will vote in favour, although we continue to say that we prefer management to be carried by the autonomous communities who want these funds to be transferred and that there is a unification of routes and benefits. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your kindness.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u193	Thank you. The next item is Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u194	Thank you, President. Minister, we are going to vote yes to this royal decree-law. We call for its processing as a bill because we understand that there are many elements that should be complemented. In any case, starting with Article 1, the extension of some flexibility measures to the agricultural sector, we fully agree. I would also like to take advantage of the fact that I am here today to say that the agricultural sector meets almost 100% of the rules and strictly complies with them, and also in the field of social security. It cannot be allowed to try to stain, as has happened this week in Lleida, the entire agricultural sector for absolutely specific situations, linking it with racism. Obviously, we are against racism, but it is not fair to try to stigmatize an entire sector that is complying with its regulations, which is complying with working conditions and also housing conditions for all temporary workers, with the cooperation of the municipalities and other administrations. Therefore, from here I express my firm and strict defense, which I hope all of you will share. Having said that, Minister, I would also like to make a few comments. Article 3 itself provides for a split-up and postponement of the outstanding debts of telecommunications and digital services services, and we agree, but we must bear in mind that not only are there large companies, but there are also small and medium-sized enterprises, SMEs that are providers of these services. You, the Government, and now the House, are asking that you suspend the debts of your customers and split them, and we agree, but this should be accompanied by the same ease that the tax administration has to give to postpone VAT on deferred invoices. It makes no sense to oblige companies - also small and medium-sized ones - to postpone and split part of their debts and instead have to pay VAT to the following month or three months. We have a multitude of measures, but we must also acknowledge them. With this royal decree-law omnibus - it is almost usual -, you modify - if I remember correctly - the royal decrees-laws 7, 8, 11, 13, 17 and 18. That is a symptom of their rectification, but perhaps it is also a symptom that they have not been diligent enough when they are legislating. We have made many contributions to them to remedy some of the shortcomings of these royal decrees. Some have listened to them and incorporate them into this royal decree-law - and therefore it is also another reason why we are going to vote in favour - but there are others that are still pending rectification and healing. And since the parliamentary deadline for tabling amendments is going to be extended week after week and this is not going to end, it is clear that if we want to favour some sector and that the amendments that we are putting forward are effective, we must hope that the Government will incorporate them into the next royal decree-law - or in the next ones - because if not, when we finish the parliamentary procedure here, the amendments that we can put forward will hardly make sense. In any case, thank you, Minister, and we trust in your handling as a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u195	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u196	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, good afternoon. I would like to start with a reflection that I believe we share with the majority in this House. When there has been a willingness to agree and engage in dialogue with other political groups and even with sectors and social actors on the steps to be taken in the pandemic, better agreements have been reached and much broader consensus has been forged. We have talked a lot about the noise and the sham that has been generated these days around the debate on the management of the pandemic. On the other hand, I believe that little time has been invested in listening much more to those who did not really raise their voice so much but who were more effective in everyday work, day by day. Our impression is that too many times the Government has come late, and perhaps wrong, in taking action and that in order to isolate itself from the chilidos of those who have no interest, beyond wear and immediate electoral calculation, it has also isolated itself from the arguments and reasons that were often made without scarecrows, but that deserved to be heard and taken into consideration. We have already carried more than twenty royal decrees since the beginning of this crisis to which we have given support because we understood that, despite many times not agreeing - unambitious or incredulous - and despite having the feeling that they sometimes end up in a broken sack, we could not abdicate our responsibility to make agreements for the benefit of people at a time as complicated as the one we are living. The responsibility to generate the confidence needed to seek agreements is all, right, but above all, first and foremost, of the Government and its constituent parties. I think they should give a deep reflection on how they managed this period and on the lack of dialogue and communication with the actors involved in the necessary decisions to be taken in the face of a crisis of this magnitude. I am not talking about this Member or the group I represent, but my reflection goes much further. And now, without wanting to be exhaustive, I would like to refer to some of the measures that we consider important and for which we believe it is worth taking forward this royal decree, although in some cases we believe they may be insufficient. In the area of portability, we welcome the fact that the Government has come to account in line with the demands made by our group by this legal decree and that clearly anticompetitive regulation should be put an end to. We're talking about the ban on changing phone company and the Internet throughout the state of alarm. An unorbited regulation that favored large telecommunications companies to the detriment of small companies, which in recent times had precisely been gaining market; all this in a context of increasing demand for their services for obvious reasons, due to confinement. Thus, it seems to us common sense to end a ban that only existed - see - in republics such as Peru and partly in South Africa. It made no sense to maintain this situation. In the area of tax obligations, this Decree-Law contains economic measures, such as the extension to four months of the period during which no interest is paid on tax deferrals for SMEs and self-employed workers. We believe that these measures are essential, albeit not sufficient, and should be continuously adapting to a context full of uncertainty, but the objective remains the same: to prevent above all the treasury of the productive tissue from collapsing. The role of public administrations must be decisive in this case, and it is necessary to relieve as far as possible those fiscal burdens to the groups most affected by the crisis. Yesterday, the Generalitat de Catalunya announced precisely the freezing of a tourist rate until 2021, a measure for a sector that brings together 24% of the workers affected by an ERT. They are small measures which are always insufficient, but which are very important for which sectors. It is lost in tax collection that must be accompanied, indeed, by a profound tax reform, which will put an end to the billions that each year cease to be collected because of fraud and tax evasion. In that regard, we do not understand very well how the obligation to publish the list of those who are in arrears of more than 1 billion is extended to October. In the field of agriculture - you know that we are all day on this issue - several measures have been introduced during these weeks, which - remember - initially aimed at job flexibility in order to activate, above all, the local labour market and thus restrict the interterritorial mobility of agricultural workers, in order to avoid, above all, the generalisation of the agricultural corridor; that would be the initial objective. We welcome the extension of the measures to 30 September, which makes it possible to guarantee agricultural campaigns for this summer and even beyond the deadline of the extension itself. But perhaps the most interesting measure would be the following: young migrants in a regular administrative situation, aged between eighteen and twenty-one years, who have been employed in the agricultural sector on the basis of Decree 13/2020, will be granted a residence and work permit of two years, renewable by another two years and without any limitation by occupation or sector of activity. It is a very important gesture, although you already know that, for the sake of dignity and human rights, our group has advocated from the outset the permanent regularization of all those in irregular administrative situations. If that had been the case, that would certainly have been the best measure of flexibility, since it would have allowed a whole segment of the population to be incorporated into the world of work today, socially excluded and exposed to the crisis that is coming. In any case, it is clear to us that proposals we put forward, such as allowing cross-border workers from the European Union to arrive, with fixed or discontinuous contracts and forming intermediate technical tables in the production chain, have been taken into consideration and, in this regard, we would like to thank you for this particular measure. In any case, I believe that it will be necessary to assess at a later stage whether or not such flexibility measures have been effective and why, because they are not always reasons for us to have been such. In the field of labour and social security, we see in that decree-law that loans to the General Treasury of Social Security, specifically for the amount of 16.5 billion euros, are again included. We're talking about some amounts that most people get lost with. To settle down, we are talking more than five times what is budgeted for minimum living income or, in other words, perhaps better understood, something less than what the Spanish State wasted on military spending last year. I guess it's a matter of priorities. Obviously, our group is not against social investment, just the opposite, but we cannot decapitalise Social Security, because this is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow; we already know this from the experience we have with the previous Government. Every time - as is done through this royal decree-law - credit is resorted to from the Treasury of Social Security, we are mortgaged a little more on the viability of pensions of the future. There are many social benefits that by their very nature must depend on the State's General Budgets and not leave the Social Security, because Social Security is only the collective fund of the contributors, let us remember. All social investment that does not revert to these same contributors must, of course, exist, but always in the hands of the general budgets, because we cannot allow public policies to be taken over only by the contributors, who are the working classes; large companies, large holders, the financial sector and capital incomes should also contribute. As far as the last area is concerned - and I finish this - the amendments concerning measures to support the cultural sector, of course, seem to us to be positive and in line with the demands of the sector and with what we have already moved the minister to the beginning of the crisis, but our impression and that of the whole sector is that once again the government acted late and acted badly. No measures to protect culture are adopted until 5 May, when the state of alarm and, therefore, the end of their work was decreed on 14 March.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u197	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u198	I'm finishing up. The least that could be expected in the face of this unjustifiable lapse is that it would serve to work on consensual measures with the sector and the rest of the parliamentary groups and that we would not have to re-amend - as has happened - failed measures by means of new decree-laws. In conclusion, I will say that we will vote in favour of its processing, although we believe that it is important, in order to complete it with amendments, to process it as a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u199	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u200	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the World Health Organization declared the pandemic on 11 March - this date of 11 March should be kept well, and not before, in order not to fall into the bubbles or paranoia of the far right - the Spanish Government has adopted several lines of defence in the face of the health, social and economic emergency brought by COVID-19. The real decree we are debating today addresses sectors as diverse as agriculture, science, telecommunications and even the tax system. However, all the measures of this decree-law meet a common objective, that of extending the social shield that the coalition government has erected and that, today, protects thousands of workers, thousands of businesses and thousands of vulnerable families. We are certainly faced with a decree dealing with urgent and necessary measures to deal with the difficult situation resulting from the health crisis. I will refer briefly to some of them. In the scientific field, this decree-law includes important measures, such as the creation of a European consortium to promote fusion as a source of energy. This consortium is expected to have an economic return for Spain of more than EUR 1 billion, resulting from its start-up and operation. This means a change of direction in our country's scientific policy. If we look back, we will see that in the last decade our country has stopped investing 20 billion euros in science and let eight thousand of its researchers go abroad. A concrete example of this destruction is found at the Carlos III Institute of Health, a reference institution in public health that in a decade has seen its budget decrease by 30%. Therefore, with this royal decree we began to correct the course. It is not a question of being a very rich country to invest in science and research, but of research to generate that added value and innovation. This decree also incorporates fiscal measures aimed at extending the deferral of tax obligations. In particular, this period of tax deferral for self-employed and SMEs is increased to four months, a measure that will help alleviate the liquidity situation of thousands of self-employed and small businesses. I hope - and I have to say this here - that these measures would have been adopted in the previous economic crisis, instead of Mr Montoro's fiscal amnesty, and instead of rewarding the tax fraud of a few privileged people - although well connected, as we know, with the People's Party - that the necessary public policies would then have been put in place to avoid the ruin of so many compatriots. This Decree-Law also extends the extraordinary measures to promote employment in the agricultural sector in the face of campaigns of greater activity, such as bone fruit or summer crops. Surely it will never be enough for us to thank the workers in the countryside for their efforts to ensure food supply during this crisis. It should be remembered that just before the health emergency began, the coalition government had already banned setting prices below the cost of production in order to guarantee the dignity of the countryside and to guarantee the dignity of the workers in the countryside, but we must certainly continue to work in that direction to ensure the sustainability of our agricultural sector and of the people working in it. On the other hand, this decree will grant a loan to Social Security of 16.5 billion euros and an extraordinary credit of 14 billion euros is approved in the Ministry of Inclusion to ensure benefits and mitigate the social impact of the crisis. Again, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with two models of dealing with the social emergency: that of the neoliberal scissors or that of the social guarantees; the model of a coalition government that today is going to approve a minimum living income, which will benefit more than two million compatriots, in order to guarantee the first right of citizenship, which is the right to existence, or the model of the right-wing governments, which cut unemployment benefits, scholarships to study or aid to dependency: 2800 million less in aid to dependency. Now that they are so concerned about senior residences, were dependency subsidies also paid? Were they also paid? If there is one lesson that leaves us with this crisis, it is that public services are the basis of collective security and well-being. For this reason, this royal decree also strengthens the protection of health personnel, considering the COVID-19 as a professional contingency resulting from an accident at work, a necessary measure that recognizes the risk to which our health professionals have been exposed and that entails greater coverage for the infected health care workers, because if it is clear that Spanish society wants the applause of the balconies to become public policies that help to dignify the working conditions of the health care workers and to strengthen public health. I'm done, Mr. President. This royal decree orders urgent issues, important issues, and provides the necessary means to address them. It is a time of great politics and not the one that was made in the 2008 crisis. That is why we will continue to bet on the general interest, by strengthening the social shield with these measures and also with the minimum living income. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u201	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Errás Pabón.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u202	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today, five days ago, we ended the official mourning for the victims of the coronavirus in our country without even knowing the number of actual deaths; deaths that this Government seems not to care about, as they do not even strive to know their names and surnames. From VOX we will not stop denouncing and demanding their responsibility until the last consequences. From here, I would like to express my sincere condolences and affection to the loved ones of these victims, both those whom the Government contemplates in their official figures and those who do not. On the technical front, the royal decree that we are debating today in this House is a real chaos. In the image and likeness of what this Government represents, it is a tailor's drawer with measures previously decreed in the field of labour, agriculture, economics and taxation, many of which have already been raised by our parliamentary group. However, some seem to us insufficient and contradictory and others, even an absolute take of hair. That's right, in VOX we have the habit of being honest and denouncing without doubles everything that is not good for Spain, but also, unlike other groups, we are able to recognize when something is well done or well said, always - I repeat - that is for the benefit of the Spaniards. For this reason, I must admit that they expressly mention in the Royal Decree that they will make technical adjustments in the field of social security in the light of problems of interpretation that their rules are causing. They also say, literally, that they are necessary and urgent adjustments, given the legal uncertainty that the current wording is generating. Good! Bravo! Finally, some wisdom in this government. They have finally been able to acknowledge that their rules create enormous uncertainty and are therefore not doing their job well, gentlemen of the Government. We have warned you on numerous occasions: you change the rules of the game to half the party and seriously violate the principle of legal certainty, which - as you know - is essential for the generation of a country's employment and wealth. We are also pleased to see that we are listened to in requests that we have been insisting on since VOX. Seeing that in article 9 they consider coronavirus disease as a professional contingency for the staff of health and social health facilities, we are greatly pleased, truly, if not because, again, they do it late and bad again. It is late, because two months have passed since the VOX parliamentary group registered a GNP for this recognition, and bad, because we can only regret that this Government has decided to exclude from this measure other workers of essential services, who during the confinement have been working on a cannon foot and who have therefore been particularly exposed to the contagion. I am talking about employees of supermarkets, cleaning workers, transporters, etc., and of course of our State Security Forces and Corpses, our soldiers of the Armed Forces, the same ones who disinfected residences while the person responsible for them, Mr. Pablo Iglesias - who is not here today to tell you to the face - was in his house very worried about the pancakes in front of his villa. Too bad also because, in your usual lack of rigour, you contradict each other again: in Article 9.1 you say one thing and in the third transitional provision you say another, and you exclude the contagions produced before the entry into force of the rule, that is to say, to all those who have contaged before 27 May. Therefore, given that by 27 May we had more than 230 000 contagions and 44 000 deaths, that two and a half months of alarm had passed and that we had more than 50 000 positive health professionals by COVID and 63 deceased health professionals, can you explain who recognizes these victims? This is a demeanor and a real shame. Gentlemen of the Government, from this rostrum I urge you to rectify or, if necessary, clarify whether this consideration of coronavirus as a professional disease is applied retroactively or not, and whether it therefore includes contagions produced prior to 27 May or not. We will ensure that all victims are collected to this extent in their handling of the bill. I would also ask you to stop drawing up your rules by hand in a paper napkin, and then put on patches, incorporating what we are already warning from our parliamentary group, because, how was it that we were xenophobes asking for borders to be closed? Listen to us, listen to us from the beginning, which is easier. Another example is the extension of agricultural employment measures provided for in Royal Decree 13/2020, in which we also note that they should be extended until October in order to ensure and meet the needs of farmers and livestock farmers. What they did not include in that royal decree and intend to include in it is that they will grant a work and residence permit to young migrants between eighteen and twenty-one years, which, as the minister has explained, will be valid for two years, renewable by two others, to work in any sector and in any part of the national territory, at a time like this, in which in Spain there is no work or money and in which we suffer an unemployment rate of more than 14% and which even reaches almost 50% among young people under twenty years of age. Have you taken this into account, because the Organic Aliens Act itself, among other things, provides that the national employment situation will be taken into account. I would like to ask you again: Has anyone in this Government taken this into account? In the midst of this dramatic employment situation, the Government is inventing a process of regularization of covert work permits to give priority to migrants aged between eighteen and twenty-one years old, to young migrants who, under the circumstances, are expected to become applicants for minimum living income, when there is no money for either pensions or for ERTE; almost half a million people are still in our country without their benefit, ladies and gentlemen, since March without a hard one. What sense of responsibility do you have? Of course, we will also be dealing with including amendments on this point for its processing as a bill, because, ladies and gentlemen, the best social policy is employment and the only way we should go right now, our only priority, must be to protect it. And you, gentlemen of the Government, instead of tackling the problem and implementing a scrupulous economic policy, are tightening up the social security line with measures such as minimum living income and implementing an economic policy that destroys our productive fabric and employment; and I do not say so, the data published by Eurostat say so. And I'm done. Spain is the country that has destroyed the most jobs in Europe: three times more than Italy, five times more than France and ten times more than the euro area average. Do they really dare to say that we are stronger? I guess this for you is not leaving anyone behind. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u203	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Delgado Arce has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u204	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, the People's Parliamentary Group, even though it does not agree with some of the contents of this royal decree, will vote in favour of its validation and will request its processing as a bill. We are faced with an extremely heterogeneous royal decree, which contains among its measures some which have already been adopted in other royal decrees and which are now being rectified, as you defended on 24 April, in the debate on the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 13/2020, of urgent measures in the field of agricultural employment. In that debate, our spokesman told him that the period of validity was short, and this enlargement is now being brought. Minister, I would like to take the opportunity to convey to you some messages of economic content that are touched on in this royal decree. We were expecting Mrs Calviño's presence here today, but you are part of the Delegated Committee on Economic Affairs and you are therefore a good recipient of our doubts. Look, the World Bank said yesterday that we were witnessing the worst recession of World War II and the Bank of Spain warned us in its report exactly two days ago that by 2020 Spain's GDP could fall, at best, from early recovery, 9%, and at worst, 15.1%. We live in times of maximum uncertainty and therefore we must react both internally and within the framework of the European Union. Mr Planas, Spain, you know, has been one of the countries hardest hit both by the health crisis and, consequently, by the impact on economic activity of containment measures. The situation is very complex and we are all obliged to work to ensure that these black forecasts are not met. I am going to refer to some aspects, first of all, of the industrial sector. Look, Minister, I think you are aware of Galicia's economy and industrial sectors. I'm going to talk to you about two of them who have some relationship with their ministry. He knows that aluminum is essential for such important activities as construction, automotive and aviation, but it is also essential for food containers and cans. Spain cannot be left without the only primary aluminium production plant in San Cibrao; I am talking about the Alcoa plant, which accounts for almost 30% of the GDP of the province of Lugo. There are about 5000 jobs at stake in the whole of the electro-intensive industry, and we have to put a stop to it. One of these royal decrees that we bring today could provide a solution to these issues. His Government was continually making excuses not to assume its responsibility, i.e. to set a stable electricity price which would allow it to compete on equal terms with the rest of Europe. His Government, today, had not yet submitted the draft of the electro-intensive statute, which it had been promising for more than a year and a half, nor did it respond to whether the Governments of Galicia, Asturias and Cantabria would accept the allegations submitted to it. I urge you, as a member of the Government, to commit yourself already to seeking an immediate and viable solution for Alcoa and, in the medium term, to draw up a specific plan for this industrial sector with the aim of obtaining the funds provided by the European Union and which are making progress on these dates. Now I'm going to talk to you about another industry, the sea-industry chain. Mr Planas, you know that in April of last year it was announced that the Coastal Law could be amended; then, in February of this year, it was announced that concessions would not be touched on in the area of the maritime-terrestrial zone for industries settled in a legal, repeat, legal way. But when we thought this matter was resolved, we find that, during this period of state of alarm, a provision has been introduced in the draft Climate Change Act that amends the Coast Act and has generated a monumental alarm in the sector. This amendment threatens the legal certainty and economic viability of companies all over the national coast, but in the case of Galicia there are at least one hundred companies and about three thousand jobs that are dependent on one thread and five thousand licensed buildings that are in this maritime-terrestrial space. What are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen? Of cetarians, of scrubbers, of canneries, of refrigerators... in short, of the livelihood of practically all the municipalities, of the municipalities of the coast. Mr Planas, you, who are in the sector and know how important the agri-food chain is, have played a decisive role in this crisis that I expressly recognise. We've got to put a stop to this. Please step in. You are a person of weight in government; intervene. I end up sending telegraphic messages on economics. In the Congress of Deputies the other day the very judicious president of the Chamber of Commerce of Spain, Mr Bonet, said: if we manage to save the summer and secure the Christmas campaign, we will make the recovery of the economy and, with it, of employment faster and more intense for the benefit of all. We have to activate our hospitality, we have to activate our tourism, we have to encourage the Horeca sector and we have to facilitate, with measures of domestic and international policy, health and credible protocols that allow people to see in Spain a safe destination. If we miss the recovery train this summer, we're going to have a lot of problems and we're going to see that -15% that the Banco de España pointed out. In fiscal matters, this royal decree provides for tax deferrals. I am not going to say that this is not right, but the dramatic situation we are experiencing also requires measures to suspend certain taxes for temporary periods. I am thinking especially of those who affect trade and tourism. In particular, I will tell you to study the proposal just launched by the President of the Xunta de Galicia, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, in the line of lowering tourist VAT from 10% to 4% in this year, in 2021, with an extension to 2022, to relaunch a sector that is the engine of the Spanish economy. Mr. President, I'll be done in a minute. I voted in this Chamber for the 2012 labour reform, I voted for a flexicurity model, which, among other things, was that the last resort that companies had in a complicated situation was dismissal. That is where we create the employment regulation files that have saved so many jobs and continue to save them in this state of alarm situation. But when this concludes, it is essential to continue to extend these ERTs for certain sectors and under certain conditions. That is why I say that you should do this, as well as the cessation benefit for self-employed people who are not yet able to recover their normal activity. It's over, President. Three months ago, the President of the People's Party, Pablo Casado, proposed to you a shock plan to alleviate the economic and social crisis. Later we reinforced it with a plan, Activamos España, which has the collaboration of the best heads and very good managers of this country. We have to give a national sense to this immense tragedy and we have to get to work. The People's Party goes to work, is working where it rules and wants to remain committed. The crises are overcome with effort, with work and with sacrifice, and we are willing to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u205	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr González Ramos has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister Planas, it has been his task to defend this Royal Decree-Law 19/2020, with many measures. In the first part of my speech, I will highlight some of them and I will start with farming. Thus, the Government approves the extension of urgent measures for the temporary recruitment of workers in the agricultural sector. The extraordinary measures to promote agricultural temporary employment already provided for in Royal Decree-Law 13/2020 of this year are extended until 30 September this year. Through this extension, the Government remains committed to covering all the work that needs to be done in the agricultural sector until the end of September, thus ensuring harvest collection. The temporary recruitment of workers is encouraged by the introduction of extraordinary measures to make employment more flexible in the social and labour fields. In the field of labour and social security, the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act is amended so that, in the case of holdings with more than one holder, more workers may be hired proportionally in order to be included in the special scheme for self-employed persons. The Royal Decree-Law 18/2020 of social measures in defence of employment is amended in order to incorporate the necessary references to the Social Institute of the Navy. The unemployment benefit of public performing artists is adjusted, in order to clarify that it is the extraordinary access itself to the benefit that responds to the health crisis of COVID-19, without it being appropriate for artists to believe that their concrete situation of lack of activity derives from it. This Royal Decree-Law extends coverage to staff who provide care in health or social health services. It is thus recognized that benefits to this group, when they have contracted COVID-19, are considered to be derived from an accident at work and in cases of death it is also understood that the cause is an accident at work, provided that it occurs within five years of the contagion. With regard to tax measures, the approved decree introduces the necessary adjustments for the presentation of the corporate tax declaration to the reality caused by the pandemic. It should be borne in mind that Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 extended the time limits available to companies for the preparation and subsequent approval of their annual accounts due to the health emergency. In the economic and financial sphere, the suspension of portability is abolished, and the previous fully competitive situation is restored. From this point on, it is appropriate for the telecommunications market to regain full operation and to allow the number of subscribers to be retained again in the event of a change of operator or portability of the number. A procedure is also in place that makes it easier for subscribers to satisfy outstanding invoices in a flexible manner. In the case of mortgage and non-mortgage moratoria, this Royal Decree incorporates a special regime for moratoria agreements reached between lenders and their clients. This special regime not only extends the group of persons benefiting from a debt deferral beyond those economically vulnerable, but also allows the latter to extend the deferral after the expiry of the period of the legal moratorium. As the Minister has said, there are other measures, up to twenty-two, but in this first part of my speech I wanted to summarize the most important. [[The lady]] I wanted to share with you in this second part of my speech a reflection. I am no naive - I have been a Member for several years now - but after listening to the thick words even today of the VOX and PP bench, I allow myself to make this reflection. I insist, I am not naive; when I finish my speech, they will say that I may be, but it is a wish I want to convey here and I am convinced that we all agree. We are facing the greatest challenge in our democratic history because we are facing a serious health, economic and social crisis by COVID-19. The present and future generations will judge us as to whether in this Chamber we were able to successfully rebuild a society with the values of the 21st century State. Faced with this challenge, it is motivating to look at us in the mirror of the Transition and to see how we manage to build a space of freedom and coexistence from which we are heirs today. The reflection that gives us back the mirror of the Transition is a collective conviction that unity was the only way to achieve success, that division was the weakness that led us to failure. I encourage you, with forgiveness, I encourage you all to inspire us in that collective passion for a great pact for social and economic reconstruction, in which we are exemplary and thus also give the example that citizens demand of us. Only in our ability to agree and in the agreement is victory. Between the scepticism that denies truth and the dogmatism that preaches the existence of one, there is an alternative to the alternative, ultimately, of a difficult but fruitful path through a new culture of the covenant or the culture of always, dialogue and consensus. For example, the vital minimum income, the actual decree that the Government is bringing us today for validation, which will be discussed immediately, is a magnificent opportunity to cement that great collective commitment of the country that we need. Social sensitivity, solidarity, affection, affection, the memory of the victims and their families, the work of health workers and many other collectives, the memory of the unemployed, of the most needy, of our companies, of our entrepreneurs, these are the values necessary, from my humble point of view, to take into account for the practice of a dialogic agreement. The hope of the citizens is at stake, the hope of the country is at stake. In unity is victory, and the Socialist Parliamentary Group and its men and women are ready to face this challenge from that conviction, we will put all the effort to go together in the social and economic reconstruction that our country needs. I'm done, Madam President. We owe it to Spain and all the Spaniards. That is the sense of patriotism that a servant and all of you understand, it is what the Spanish people demand and it is the commitment that we take. What I humbly ask is: let us not disappoint them. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u207	Thank you very much, Mr González Ramos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 20/2020, OF 29 MAY, ESTABLISHING THE MINIMUM VITAL REVENUE. [[File number 130/000021]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u208	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 20/2020 of 29 May, establishing minimum living income. In order to present the Royal Decree-Law, first of all, on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u209	Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, today has been Olof Palme's news because they say that his murder has been clarified. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to your memory and your ideas on behalf of the Government. On a day like today, when the government is defending minimum living income here, remembering a figure like Olof Palme, friend of Spain, friend of the Spanish Democrats, someone who understood that social justice is the basis of democracy, I think it is important at a time when these ideas have to be a country impulse and a European impulse to face reconstruction. It is a very special moment for me, six years ago when my political formation was born, minimum living income was one of our most important proposals, and we were told everything. It is a pride as vice president to defend here today a measure that is probably the greatest advance in our country's social rights since the adoption of the Dependency Act in 2006. As you know, at the end of January, when this coalition government began its course, there was a demolishing report for the dignity of our homeland. Philip Alston, the UN Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty, came to Spain and made a very hard report describing the conditions of exclusion in which a very important part of our compatriots live, especially referring to boys and girls. It is a pride for the Government of Spain that Mr Alston's successor, Mr Olivier De Schutter, is saying today that the minimum living income we have approved in Spain is an example for other countries. Minimum vital income is, first and foremost, a measure of pure social justice. In recent weeks and months, it has been outrageous to hear some speak of Paguita, disrespecting many compatriots who have to make a great effort to fill their refrigerator and who often, despite their enormous effort, fail to bring home the minimum dignity of material conditions worthy of existence. One of the foundations of democracy must be taken very seriously to understand what minimum living income means, and it is redistribution. Perhaps the measure we are defending today is one that has the greatest redistributive capacity than has been adopted in recent years in our country. In addition, minimum living income is a particularly useful tool for combating child poverty. We have the sad misfortune of being a silver medal in Europe in the rate of child poverty, according to Eurostat data. To ensure that all children in our country, regardless of their economic origin and the economic situation of their parents, have the same opportunities, minimum living income is an essential measure. Yesterday, the Government approved the preliminary draft of the Child Protection Act against all forms of violence, but the condition for its functioning is to combat structural violence, and structural violence against the children of our country is called poverty, ladies and gentlemen. However, minimum living income is not only a measure of social justice, it is also an essential measure for economic recovery. Those 462 euros, which are going to reach the pockets of some compatriots, are not going to go to a tax haven, are not going to go to accounts in Switzerland, are going to go directly to consumption, because people who are going to collect the minimum living income have no capacity to save, and are going to help many self-employed and many businesses to continue to bill. Today there is a consensus in Europe on the need to make expansive fiscal policies to deal with the crisis. He said the other day in a committee that today all European democrats are neokeynesians, because the way to deal with a crisis like the one we are experiencing taught us the 1929 crisis and also the period of reconstruction that followed the Second World War. I think it is good news that the People's Party has finally rectified and that they are going to support minimum living income today. I hope you will continue to move in that direction towards European consensus. We are already working with other governments, with different political signs from our own, such as the Portuguese Government or the Italian Government, to promote a minimum living income in Europe that will also help to strengthen the fourth pillar of the welfare state in Europe. The minimum living income, ladies and gentlemen, also means taking the Spanish Constitution seriously. Many times in this House the Spanish Constitution is manipulated, it is thrown as if it were an instrument to harm the adversary, but little is read his articles, in particular his social articles. Let me read to you, ladies and gentlemen, 41: 'The public authorities will maintain a public social security system for all citizens, which guarantees sufficient social assistance and benefits in the face of situations of need, especially in the event of unemployment'. Adopting minimum living income is a way to believe the Constitution and to understand that the best way to be patriot is not to get involved in a flag, it is to assume what the general interest means. I would like to thank, on behalf of the Government, all the solidarity networks, all the neighbouring associations, food banks, parishes, NGOs and all the entities of the third sector of social action that have for many years represented a safety net for many citizens. But they've been doing a job that corresponded to the public authorities. This is why minimum living income assumes this role with greater intensity, assuming that it is an obligation of the Government and the institutions to combat poverty; an obligation that should not be delegated. Minimum vital income is also a matter of security. The security of advanced nations is not measured by the hardness of their criminal codes, it is measured by the intensity and coverage of their social benefits. More egalitarian societies and societies that better protect social rights are safer societies. The vital minimum income, ladies and gentlemen, also has to do with freedom for something as simple as that there is no freedom if a person has to invest all his energy only in survival and cannot enjoy life at all; there is no freedom if there are no minimum conditions of economic security; there is no freedom, ladies and gentlemen, if it is not at the end of the month. Finally, I would like to say that, in the midst of the climate of chasm and churn that we too often live in this House, I believe that measures such as minimum living income are the best vaccine against hate speech and the confrontation of the penultimate against the last of society. Finally, thank you to all the civil society groups that have fought against wind and tide for years to put on the table the need for public institutions to take measures like these. The minimum living income is not a success of the Minister Escrivá neither of me nor of the coalition government, it is a success of the civil organized society, of all the collectives, of all the academic professionals who for years against wind and tide have worked to make the conditions of dignity in Spain closer. All of them and them, thank you very much. Yes, you can. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u210	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, the Minister of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration has the floor on behalf of the Government to present the Royal Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u211	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The Royal Decree-Law 20/2020 establishing the minimum living income and the public policy that is born with it is the result of three profound reflections, shared not only by this ministry and by this government, but, I believe, by society as a whole. The first and most important reflection is the recognition that our country has a structural problem of inequality and poverty, a problem that, although magnificent in times of crisis, does not return in times of good times. The European authorities, independent reports, economists and specialised sociologists remind us over and over again in the European context that our incomes are poorly redistributed because of the extraordinarily low incomes of the poorest households. As in all complex social phenomena, this anomaly has many causes, but it is clear that one of them has to do with political decisions or, rather, the absence of such decisions. We see this in the comparative figures of poverty before and after state intervention through transfers: while social transfers can significantly reduce severe poverty in most European countries, in Spain they do so in a very limited way. And that's because, unlike what happens in our environment, we don't have a strong and powerful network to protect last resort rents. The fact that almost all the responsibility for this policy has fallen to the autonomous communities, whose minimum income programmes have varied considerably in size and generosity, has in fact led to inequalities among citizens, which these policies should aim to reduce, even widen over time. After a collective effort of reflection, analysis and considerable debate, Spanish society has managed to put this problem at the centre of the political agenda. That, in a context like the present, we have made efforts, efforts and resources to improve the lives of the weakest, I think it makes us a little better and I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we should all congratulate ourselves on that. The second reflection is that the social and economic transformations of recent decades force us to rethink public policies that aim to protect the well-being and opportunities of the most vulnerable. We cannot, for example, link all social protection to employment. Work careers are now very volatile. The reality of precarious employment affects many workers and labour poverty, what the Anglo-Saxons call working poor, is a phenomenon that is unfortunately becoming more frequent. Nor can we ignore the different realities of today's vulnerable households, such as the extraordinary difficulties faced by single-parent families with limited resources; difficulties that unjustly miss the opportunities of children growing up with them. Public policies cannot live behind the back of the society in which they deploy their effects. The society of the twenty-first century demands, ladies and gentlemen, policies of the twenty-first century. Thirdly, the COVID pandemic has forced us to speed up the correction of these problems. The sudden slowdown in economic activity imposed by health measures has made the costs for poorer households even more visible by the absence of a last income protection network. Although we have implemented policies to protect the incomes of those affected by the pandemic, the most vulnerable families are systematically faced with more barriers to accessing them. Indeed, the pandemic has forced us to speed up the timelines for implementing the new policy, but we have always believed that, despite the urgency of the situation, there was no alternative to designing this policy with the rigour and analysis it deserved. The real decree-law establishing minimum living income is a complex policy, but essentially consists of two elements: on the one hand, a highly redistributive benefit designed to combat, in the most efficient way possible, the most extreme forms of poverty, but, on the other hand, it is a set of policies - yes, a set of policies - aimed at ensuring that the satisfaction of basic material needs serves to move the beneficiaries of the benefit from exclusion and the lack of opportunities towards full participation in society and the economy as a whole. The minimum living income must be understood, ladies and gentlemen, simultaneously as a tool for combating poverty and a lever for social inclusion. Although minimum vital income will inevitably be focused on helping the most vulnerable households - those with defined minimum income and assets - it should not be understood as much as a policy aimed at specific groups or individuals, but rather as a collective insurance that, on a permanent basis, rescues people at every moment who suffer severe material deficiencies and pushes them, leads them, towards integration into society. The first major innovation that introduces the design of the minimum living income is that, both in calculating the magnitude of the benefit and in designing the inclusion itineraries, it will take into account the economic, family and social reality of the beneficiaries. This is, I think, one of the most innovative elements of this policy: putting the recipients at the centre. It is public policy that adapts to the needs of collectors and not the other way around, as is often the case. That is why the structure of the household, its income and its assets will be taken into account when calculating the amount of the benefit. This is truly modern, ladies and gentlemen. The second novelty is the centrality of the inclusion objective that is vertebrate throughout the norm. For some, inclusion will involve new educational opportunities, for others, a solution to a specific health condition, but for the majority, inclusion will involve entry into the labour market or more intense and stable participation in it. To this end, the standard incorporates a wide range of measures designed to encourage the employment of beneficiaries and to avoid what the literature usually refers to as the poverty trap. But as important and novel as the content of the concrete design of the standard is how we have arrived at it. The design of minimum vital income has been based on deep, rigorous and meticulous work. We have combined all available information on the income, wealth and career paths of each of the people who make up all Spanish households. To this end, we have had the collaboration, delivery and professionalism of social security officials, the Tax Agency, the National Statistical Institute and other administrative units. We have also worked very closely with the Autonomous Communities. We have examined in detail the wealth of this information with the aim of delimiting very well the households to which we want to reach and to know well the reality of the potential beneficiaries. Thanks to this thorough examination, we discovered, among other things, the importance of considering not only income, but also the net assets of potential collectors. Before choosing the definitive design, we have simulated and compared many alternatives, evaluating their effectiveness in reducing poverty and their tax cost. All this work makes us reasonably sure that what we are asking to validate in Congress today is a good design of a public policy that will achieve its objectives at a perfectly manageable tax cost. And not just that. The rule provides for different provisions that promote greater formalization of the economy, with the positive effects that this can have on society, including those of a collection and tax nature. And, of course, in view of the messages that have slipped over the last few days, minimum vital income is incompatible with situations of administrative irregularity. We are humble and we are aware that it will be the reality that ultimately gives us or takes away our reason and that is why we like to think of the minimum income as a living policy, which will be constantly learning from the reality in which it is intended to affect and which will be evaluated continuously, before, during and after its deployment, and not only by us, but - most importantly - also by the rest of the administrations involved and independent bodies, as well as by analysts, researchers and representatives of the third sector of social action, within an approach defined by the norm itself as a 360-degree evaluation. The minimum vital income brings, as it were, already incorporated the home assessment. This will make you the policy that will improve as you progress over time, and this is also a novelty. In addition to methodological rigour and constant empirical contrast, we have designed this policy with the best spirit of dialogue that we have been able to achieve in the last few months. We have explained this and listened to the parliamentary groups, the autonomous governments, the municipalities, the social partners, employers and trade unions and, of course, the third sector. Despite the reasonable and even desirable differences, I must say that I have found in all of them - in all of you I should say - a strong spirit of commitment to the central ideas underlying this policy: the need to correct the problem of inequality and structural poverty affecting our most vulnerable population, the desire to adapt public policies to the economic and social reality of our time and the urgency of meeting the needs arising as a result of the pandemic. Thanks to this sincere dialogue and to the suggestions, concerns and ideas of each other, the norm is much better today and, moreover, it is more of all. I firmly believe that we are faced with a policy that outlines a framework for action in which, beyond sound ideological discrepancies, we should all feel relatively comfortable, a policy that respects and even enhances the capacity of the autonomous communities to meet the specific needs of their territories and that has local entities and civil society to better understand the needs of the beneficiaries. Although we sometimes suggest otherwise, public opinion deserves to know that political representatives are capable of dialogue and building and I would like this policy to be remembered as an example of this. Yesterday, in this very house, in my appearance at the Committee on Labour, Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, we had an enriching debate in an atmosphere of cordiality and respect that citizens deserve to witness more often. This spirit of constructive dialogue must always be welcomed, but for a policy like this, which is born in response to a structural deficit of our welfare State, which therefore aims to deploy its effects several legislatures and which will require in its day-to-day active involvement of various levels of government and civil society, cooperation is not only desirable but absolutely indispensable. This is why the norm also incorporates a co-governance model, in which different administrations, social actors and civil society will be central actors in policy development and evaluation. It's over, ladies and gentlemen. What they now have to vote on is a rule that corrects a historical deficit in our welfare model, that puts us at the forefront in the use of data for the development of public policies and, above all, that dignifies us as a country. I ask you not only to vote in favour of it, but to be fully involved in its deployment as of tomorrow. You can be sure that in our ministry and in the Government, with generosity and will of understanding, we will continue as always counting on you. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u212	Thank you very much, Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gimeno, first of all, is speaking for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u213	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to support minimum living income because we consider it an instrument that is going to face the great challenges we face, including poverty and social exclusion. During the gestation of this decree we have transferred to the ministries some of our contributions which, in general, have not been heard. The fundamental contribution that we have wanted to make - and that we hope to be able to make in the process as a draft law - is that this instrument allows not only to fight against these elements, which in itself would be more than sufficient and valid, but also to fight against depopulation in very small municipalities. Making a small positive discrimination of the host families could boost repopulation and address that other great challenge, which is the demographic challenge we have in empty Spain. In that regard, we trust that during the course of the bill we will be able to incorporate these approaches. There are many jobs that can't be covered in emptied Spain because by themselves they don't give for a salary. However, by supplementing them with the minimum living income, it can be achieved, on the one hand, that the persons concerned have a substantial salary and, on the other hand, that these municipalities begin to have services which they cannot so far have because there is no income. We are talking about services in agriculture, in the care of the elderly, in transport, in grocery stores, bars... There are a lot of jobs to create and generate in this Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u215	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, Minister, the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, which the Government accentuated with its late measures and its negligence in both the health and economic and social aspects, make it necessary to extend on a state basis a minimum income that was already applied in some autonomous communities in order to correct and combat the impoverishment of a part of our population, exacerbated by the labor crisis that occurred as a consequence of the coronavirus. My vote will be in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law as a call for the Government to apply itself in economic recovery and to urgently support those sectors that are calling for help to prevent further job losses, which is the high priority before and after the health emergency. Employment is the major lever to promote social inclusion and the fight against poverty. In this regard, I would like to reiterate the inadequacy of the measures adopted by the Council of Ministers against the destruction of employment and its failure to operate in the face of situations which are very threatening for industry, trade and tourism, by mentioning three sectors which account for 40% of employment in Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u216	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u217	Thank you very much, Madam President. Welcome, Mr. Iglesias, to social policy. As you are well aware, those whom you call with contempt the governments of the right have been doing things for many years; in this matter in our case since the 1990s and already since 2006 as a subjective right, that is, regardless of the budget that everyone who met conditions was entitled to an income of these characteristics. Therefore, welcome to social policies. In this sense, we must say that every time we did that we did more things, that I think this Government should also do it, which is to create the conditions for being able to generate jobs at the same time. That is the difference between those governments and this; while some governments generated jobs so that they could pay for everything else, this government creates this but at the same time creates the measures to destroy jobs. They will also allow me to refer, of course, once again to the interference of the Basque Nationalist Party in what are Navarra's own competences. Once again we have suffered those interferences. The interferences of the Basque Nationalist Party on Navarre are infinite, the same as their seats are zero, but that does not prevent them from continuing with this kind of interference. For this to be understood, it is as if Mr Rufián, when negotiating with the Government, is putting conditions for the Community of Aragon or for the Community of Valencia. But here there is an even worse addition, and it is that we have wanted to move to the whole of Spain that we are insolidarians. Navarra, we're not insolidarians. We would be delighted that the whole of Spain could manage this income, we would be delighted, in fact we are sure that any Spanish autonomous community will manage this income better than the Spanish Government itself. For our part, therefore, it is all the autonomous communities that manage this income. And it's already worth the PNV's interference in Navarra's competitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u218	Thank you very much, Mr García Adanero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Catalina. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u219	Thank you, Madam President. I am speaking very briefly, by the way. Mr Vice-President, Minister, on behalf of the New Canary Islands, allow me to congratulate this Government very warmly on the decision that should probably have been taken long before, because there is something that is already perfectly clear: in the society that we have built among all and that we cannot be too proud of, it is clear that extreme poverty and the social exclusion of broad sections of the population have become a structural phenomenon, and what will I tell you in the Canary Islands with a brutal Arope rate! On the other hand, it is also clear that the invisible hand of Don Adam Smith, who was a great guy, turns out that it was true and he was right, it is invisible, there is no hand. The hand does not solve anything, it does not solve these dramatic situations of poverty with which we cannot get used to living. It is therefore unacceptable that extreme poverty and social exclusion should be seen as inevitable and it is absolutely recommended that action be taken by public administrations to try to improve the obvious social injustice of such situations. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u220	Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u221	Thank you, Madam President. In this bill is, as in the story, there are ants and cigarettes, and I am going to address Minister Escriva because it is the ant. During these months he has worked with a large team of people to make today a serious and important reality and to give dignity in this country to those initial 260 000 people, but above all to 130,000 children, to 76,000 families. It has been done seriously, as it must be done. I congratulate you and ask you to convey that congratulations to your team. In addition, he has kept us fully informed of all the speakers and all the parliamentary groups, and I thank him for that. I would just like to say one thing, and it is that establishing the compulsory routes of social and labour inclusion, rather than through regulatory development, should be done in the process of law. The subject that they refer to the regulation I believe should be in the law of the compatibility of employment and benefit. The issue of housing should be in the law, because if we are not going to have tax problems. There are doubts about an issue that should be clarified, and it is compatibility with non-contributory pensions. In that regard, it is gratifying that today we can fight an injustice in this country and that we can give dignity to these people. Thank you, Mr. Escriva. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u222	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the last word.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u223	Good afternoon, president, ministers. We will support this measure. It seems to us a positive step, but what has not seemed so positive to us is the grandiose rhetoric that has accompanied its staging. This has not been the case with today's interventions, but it has been the case since it was launched, in press interventions, etc. I say this basically because a measure that other States in our environment already have is being adopted. In addition, the EUR 3 billion of economic endowment that has been estimated to be invested in minimum living income is insufficient, because people will be left out at risk of poverty. This figure is below what you proposed in your respective programmes: the PSOE proposed to devote around EUR 6 billion to this type of income and the United States estimated between EUR 10 billion and EUR 12 billion. These are amounts that could be invested in such an income, but it would involve changes in taxation, tightening IBEX companies, private banking, repealing Article 135 of the Constitution, things that I do not have time to explain but that would change structural measures to be able to raise this money that is necessary. The problem of grandiloquency is that it closes the horizon towards a universal basic income, which is what is necessary for many reasons, but above all for the nature of universality, from two points of view that can be weak points of minimum vital income. The first is that, since it is not universal, it involves discrimination, it involves formalities, it involves paperwork, it involves leaving people out. It is one of the main criticisms that receives the guaranteed income of citizens to Catalonia, that there are people who stay out, who by the paperwork stays out. And second, if it's universal, it's all people living in the state. Therefore, people in vulnerable situations, such as irregular immigrants, should not be left out. These close to 600,000 people in the Spanish State could and should also benefit from the minimum living income. That would be achieved with a truly universal nature of income. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Catalina. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u225	Thank you very much, Madam President. Scratch where you're going. At Euskal Herria Bildu we face this debate with three budgets or three main ideas. The first, that this debate makes possible the first step towards the consolidation of a right; not of aid, of a paguita or of a gift - as some have pointed out - but of a right, and is therefore a right that has to be not cyclical, but structural, because it would be of no use to the effort that will be made now if within a few months we throw hundreds of thousands of people into social exclusion. The second precept or budget is that of social justice, as the Vice-President has pointed out. It should not be necessary to explain that a democratic society, a social and democratic State, which is said to be in law, must better and with greater emphasis on the most disadvantaged, the most disadvantaged. It is understood very clearly in health; we have had a hard trance, in which we have been able to see it. It is clearly understood in education. It seems that it is not understood, seeing practice, in such a clear way in care, but it should also be understood and, of course, it should also be understood in this matter, in this reality. This is the only way to talk about a social and democratic state. And the third precept is that of sensitivity and recognition. Because many people have filled the balconies for many months, probably of varied ideology and condition, applauding the sanitary, but not only the sanitary; also the repos, also the cashiers, also the transport workers; and it is that many of them and they are, precisely, the main beneficiaries of measures like these, because those essential workers - by the way, much more essential than the members of the boards of directors -, during the toughest time of the pandemic, have demonstrated with their effort something that deserves to be recognized, and it is that they cannot be dropped by the margins of exclusion, since they are the ones who attend to the most precarious labour realities. In short, it is - as we have said on some occasion - a matter of priorities. That is why, because politics is a matter of priorities and of choice, we will validate and support this vital minimum income with our vote. We believe that it helps to end the anomaly represented by the Spanish State in the logic of Europe. That is true, although the effect will be limited in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and in Nafarroa, in Euskal Herria, which already have income guarantee policies for years. In particular, in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, the so-called income guarantee income was launched more than thirty years ago, with a strong Community impulse - which should not be forgotten -. Later it was Navarra's guaranteed income. But, in either case, we must point out something that is very obvious, that is a conditioned income, that is not a universal income or a basic income and that, perhaps, that is the reflection and debate that we should do here, to turn into a structural right and a fundamental right, moving towards universality and a guarantee for the whole of citizenship, a right like that which we are going to adopt here today around minimum living income. Therefore, it is a minimum income that represents a step forward, but that is not enough. And it is not enough, not because we and we, the people of Euskal Herria Bildu, say it, when Cermi proposes that we support it but that we enable the process to be able to introduce amendments. Even more people say that, for example, Article 7 is a trap for the poor, because it leaves some people out. So, there's a lot of work to do. It will serve to contain a part, perhaps the worst of poverty, even its intensity, but it is born - as I said - insufficient as a tool to eradicate it. Therefore, we hope that it will not be conceived as a goal, but as a starting point. It seems that the GIR has served as an inspiration for the design of the new minimum vital income, or we have read it in some press interventions in previous days. Let us hope that we learn from the mistakes and, at least, do not repeat the dysfunctions that have been demonstrated in the management of income guarantee income of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, such as those relating to the protection of women, of family units with their dependent children, of single-parent or'mono-parent families'; to the completion and bureaucratisation of their management, and above all and fundamentally to the legitimization of the system. Because there has been a sustained and sustained attempt on the part of the media and policy right to denot income-guarantee income, to associate income-guarantee income and its recipients with fraud exchanges, to talk about GIR fraud. They spoke of a real fraud in the RGI who never look at the fraud of royalty, that it is real and that it would serve to cover all the micro-frauds of the RGI. We also welcome the transfer of competence from the management of minimum vital income to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country or to that of Nafarroa, which as an integrated benefit in the social security system would already be included in the famous calendar of transfers. Now the transfer is advanced, and it's not bad, but it's just that. However, the important thing for us, for those who want to manage minimum living income, is to make it a non-substitutive supplementary benefit of the GIR or of the guaranteed income of Nafarroa and to do so because we are aware of the limited impact of this minimum living income on our realities, on the realities of the Basque Autonomous Community or of Nafarroa. However, it can be a window of opportunity to protect more and better and more people who have pressing needs and who are becoming more cruelly revealed during this pandemic, for example in the working class. It is an opportunity, for example, to supplement the benefits provided by ERTE or that of the cessation of activity of the autonomous people, who have of course proved to be insufficient to be able to live in the CAV and in Nafarroa with dignity, because in the end it is about building lives worthy of being lived. We have also heard from different leaders of the Basque Autonomous Community and of Navarre issues with which we agree. We have heard them say that this makes it possible to better protect the most vulnerable people, and they will have us by their side; we have heard about the economic impact of the management of minimum living income by our autonomous communities, and they will have us by their side, but we have also heard them say that this means investing more in the protection of people, and there they will not have us by their side. For us, minimum living income is an opportunity to transform the future design of our guarantee and income policies, to invest in reducing our poverty levels and their intensity and to protect, as I said, more and better, not to save us more money. The health crisis has taught us that we are much more vulnerable than we thought. Climbing - in which there was before the pandemic, which everyone understood by climbing - a line of life is an anchor cable tied to the ventral ring of your harness that you will always have available to secure at a point; a simple - relatively simple - system that acts by stopping the fall if something fails in the way, an idea that clearly captures what should be the income guarantee protection system of a country that wants or aspires to be dignified and decent. The health crisis has taught us that we are much more vulnerable than we thought and has taught us the importance of these life lines, but the health crisis has also tested the adequacy and strength of our income guarantee system, already questioned before the crisis. If life lines don't renew, they don't strengthen, they never stop the fall.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u227	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, I hope you will join us. Probably the real decree-law that we are going to evaluate today and I hope that to validate will be the most important social policy measure that has been taken in recent history. It is - as you have recalled - anchored in the Constitution, first in article 9.2, in that it urges the public authorities to promote the conditions for the freedom and equality of the individual and of the groups in which they are integrated to be effective, and, as you commented, equality is a parameter that is also handled through this royal decree-law. In addition, it is set out in Article 41, which states that the public authorities will maintain a public social security system for all citizens guaranteeing adequate social assistance and benefits in the face of situations of need, especially in the event of unemployment. And that is the minimum living income, which - according to these two constitutional parameters - is promoted through this royal decree-law as a non-contributory benefit of the social security system. This enables measures that are redistributive of income to be adopted as a tool for the eradication of extreme poverty and social inclusion. Thus, the object of the minimum income is to guarantee a decent income for living units in a situation of social vulnerability, as well as to establish a mesh of basic and general equity, which can be complemented with other benefits and income in each territory according to its own realities. The Constitutional Court, in its judgement 239/2002, states that this social security protection action is a function of the State to meet needs that may go beyond the contributory coverage of the system itself and therefore may include both contributory and assistance benefits in its scope. Article 41, as also recalled by the TC, establishes the duty of the public authorities to maintain a certain protective structure of citizens in the face of situations of need and sets out lines that must guide the evolution of that one, but it is not a suitable precept to assign competences nor to decide in favor of some or other decision-making centers among those who integrate the model of articulation of the State. This is why Article 41 is a neutral provision which imposes commitments, to which reference has been made, on the public authorities, but it does not prejudge which of them must assume those obligations. Well, it is in this context of constitutional regulation and attention to needs and redistribution, which enshrines the agreement signed by my group, the Basque Nationalist Group, and the Government of Spain on minimum living income, because it demanded scrupulously and correctly resolving the link between the new benefit and those already existing in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and the Navarre Forum. In this respect, the three premises on which we would have started at the time of the negotiation have been fulfilled: complementarity, compatibility and subsidiarity between the two services, between the two protection systems. The minimum living income is likely to be supplemented as such by the minimum guarantee for benefits and aid, if any, established by the Autonomous Communities and other public administrations. The Euskadi GIR and the guaranteed income in Nafarroa, to which reference has been made, as social assistance benefits are subsidiary and, where appropriate, complementary to others to which the beneficiary may be entitled, which supports an order of priority between the two in the sense that access to and the amount of minimum living income is not affected by the perception of others such as GIR or guaranteed income or similar income from other autonomous communities, the latter being also compatible with the previous one. But it is also a singular fact - the singularity also characterizes this new benefit - that the minimum vital income is defined as a non-contributory economic benefit of the Social Security whose management is the responsibility of the INSS, which does not prevent such management from being assumed by the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country or by the Foral Community, as is currently done with the non-contributory pensions of the Social Security, and can also be included, in the case of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, in the claimed fulfilment of the provision of the statute in its article 18. In this connection, I was encouraged that Mr Escriva himself, in his presentation to the Committee on Labour, Inclusion, Social Security and Migration a couple of days ago, understood and defined this issue as a matter of efficiency in management, since, while noting the effectiveness of anti-poverty models and the inclusion of the Basque Community and of Navarre, warned that one of the essential requirements for defining the conditions for access to minimum income is the finding, the contrast between the level of income and wealth, which in the case of the Basque country and Navarre means maintaining that competence at the headquarters of the outsourced entities which hold them in the field of finance. It would have been a misconception not to have placed this benefit in institutions whose management of a similar benefit has been proven effective in the fight against poverty and social exclusion, and with greater reason if it requires tax data that hold outland finances. Thus, citizens have effective administrations that can test compliance with the requirements required to be beneficiaries of the benefit, as well as currently have a very deep knowledge of this type of aid, which will serve to connect the GIR, income guarantee income, with the new minimum living income. In this way, people who receive GIR and guaranteed income will not be affected by their current situation, nor will those who are entitled to minimum living income or the rest of the groups who are not covered by that minimum living income today, but are in GIR, as is the case with pensioners and persons without legal residence. All of them will continue to receive the amounts currently received and, where appropriate, higher for persons receiving GIR and guarantee income, which is constituted by a complementary network of dignity. The reality is that Euskadi continues to invest to guarantee income to the most disadvantaged groups. It thus maintains a necessary connection for its complementarity by linking it with the common objective. But all this requires the State to commit itself also to the transfer of the management of the minimum income without delay, as stipulated in the fifth additional provision of the law. This also implies the effectiveness of Article 18(2)(b) of the Statute of Autonomy in accordance with Judgment 133/2019. Well, once this transfer takes place, the autonomous community will take charge of the full financing of the minimum living income in its territory and the State will be able to stop financing this non-contributory benefit, which would become a burden borne by the Basque Country. The vital minimum income - I am already finishing, that time is running out -, ladies and gentlemen, represents in the State what the GIR has represented since 1990 in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country or what has meant since 1999 the guaranteed income in Navarre. It is a wealth-sharing effort that Euskadi has been making for more than thirty years, and that probably has much to do with poverty rates being lower than those of the state, even lower than those of European countries that we consider to be more advanced. Eurostat data for 2018 confirm that the incidence of poverty in Euskadi is 18%, lower than that of the state as a whole, which is 26%, even lower than the European average of 22%. Let us hope that these are also the achievements of minimum living income. That is our wish and that is why we will support this royal decree-law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u228	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Catalina. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u229	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since the crisis broke, I have been heard in a number of speeches which have been highlighted and which have put realities on top of the table that we liked to look at from a profile. One of them has been the numerous shortcomings, mainly of our system of benefits in general. That is why it is important to ensure that all people who can be seen in a situation of vulnerability receive sufficient support, sufficient support to get out of that situation of exclusion; exclusion that this crisis has aggravated. We have many images that we will not forget of families broken by the coronavirus. After having overcome that peak of deaths, I believe that there are numerous images that continue to hit our society - the large queues of people asking for food aid today, numerous phone calls telling us that aid does not arrive - which is why we have a great challenge to face in the area of equality. Today's legislation has an essential purpose, which is to address structural poverty, because, as has been said, we have already been given enough earshots by international agencies with our high poverty rates. But it also aims to look at our reality, and the reality is also those people who, as a result of the coronavirus, have been dragged into this situation of poverty. Therefore, minimum vital income must cover this structural poverty and poverty that has been generated by the coronavirus itself. That poverty rates are so high and that they also have a childhood and a woman's face, I think it shows us a social failure that we are looking at and that we want to tackle today from the front. I believe that all public representatives should agree with this measure. Citizens will clearly support such a measure because we will always be at the side of just causes, but also because we believe in effective policies of social inclusion, although sometimes this Government makes it difficult for us to do so with so much propaganda, with the difficulties in achieving consensus. We are going to ask that this be done as a bill because we believe that it is a regulation that needs to be improved and implemented. No one should be left behind, employment should be promoted, coordination with the autonomous communities should be promoted. We have a great opportunity to do it right, so we must treat it as a bill. We will give some examples that show this. As for the beneficiaries, I already told the minister the other day that we should see if it would not be more appropriate to take into account just the incomes of the previous twelve months to receive the benefit because we put ourselves on the assumption of someone who in 2019 did meet the requirement, but now in 2020 has found work. I think there's some mismatch. Also with regard to the beneficiaries, no vulnerable person should remain outside this measure, but we leave the self-employed out of it. I do not know if there are certain prejudices with the self-employed. Can't a person who has a commercial society automatically be in a state of poverty? Similarly, when we talk about those beneficiaries and age requirements, do we take into account those holders with modified capacity or do we not take into account them? Do we take into account those homeless people who are not registered or do not take into account them? The same applies to minors who are in certain situations such as orphans, minors who are already 18 years of age, even other minors who have become independent and who are seen in situations of poverty. I really think the rule should be improved. During these days we have been listening to different speeches regarding minimum living income. I would like to refer to some of the issues that have been raised by the VOX Group, for example, relating it to an effect called immigration. Let us read the rule well: immigrants will have the right as long as they are regular and have an uninterrupted year in our country. Let us not foment prejudices and stereotypes, which I believe should be left far away. Another of the essential measures and a fundamental pillar in this vital minimum income is labour integration. If we want to do it right and if we really want to start taking steps against poverty, it seems to me very good to guarantee a minimum income, but if we do not join it in the labour market, we will condemn people to a welfare system and to the trap of poverty. Therefore, the part of itineraries should also be included in this regulation, we should not leave it for further development. Let us work well on those itineraries, let us look at the profile of the person and let us work to ensure that there are work incentives. As I was saying the other day, what job incentives can we have? We can promote that public contracts and tender documents actually include the recipients of the minimum living income; we can establish reserve quotas for the minimum living income; we can establish bonuses in contracts for persons benefiting from the minimum living income. These are issues that are going to improve the norm and that are going to give effect to the exit from poverty. If we do not do it right, if we do not coordinate well with the autonomous communities, if we do not coordinate well with our current benefit system and automatically integrate the dependent child benefit, what happens to those families that are not recipients of the minimum living income, but do meet the requirement of the dependent child benefit? Automatically leave them out? They are services that have different objectives. We simply put on the table our desire to work to make it a useful policy; a policy that really promotes equality. In these aspects of equality I always demand a high level of attention in politics; let's put ideologies aside, let's get serious about it and build a better society, and that better society will come if this social policy is linked to the real policy of labour integration. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u230	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u231	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Vice-President, Minister, combating social exclusion and poverty, especially extreme poverty, must be the first objective of every government and also of every political force. It is, of course, for the BNG and, in that regard, we have already announced that we are going to vote in favour. The BNG has always argued that there is a peremptory need to guarantee minimum income to the entire population to enable them to live with dignity. Of course, from our point of view, the best way to guarantee that dignified life is to ensure stable employment and a fair wage. That is why - and in this way how it is conceived is important - we always talk about a wage of employment and social inclusion because the main objective must be precisely the incorporation into the world of work of all people in a position to do so. The ideal horizon would be for this integration wage to be equal to the interprofessional minimum wage and this, in turn, progressively, to the average wage. From this perspective, the minimum living income that you propose, being positive, seems to us to be short of both your conception and your amount. In any case, in addition to issues of concern to us and which we have already formulated in previous interventions in the Commission, especially in relation to those sectors which will eventually be excluded, the BNG disagrees with how to manage this vital minimum income from the State, causing a new - one more - episode of recentralisation. We do not understand why, since there is already an income of integration in the autonomous communities - in the case of Galicia la Risga - the Government does not choose to strengthen this mechanism instead of creating a new one. If they are concerned about the differences that currently exist - and believe me that to us, because the Risk, in the hands of Feijóo and the PP, is one of the lowest in the State - the alternative would be to establish a minimum that guarantees a decent coverage of the needs of the most vulnerable population and transfer resources, those approximately €3 billion that the State is willing to mobilize. If self-management is possible in Euskadi and Navarre, it is also possible in Galicia. We therefore ask you to take this proposal into consideration for the immediate future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the same Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u233	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Vice-President, Minister, we are going to vote in favour of this initiative with pleasure and we are going to do so for the content, but we are going to do so too - and I would like to emphasise this - for the procedure. We have met several times, Minister, as you know; we have exchanged ideas; we have heard; we have been able to provide opinions, and I have to congratulate you on this procedure and wish that the road is always like this, because the truth is that it is much easier. In Spain, the situation of poverty is dramatic. According to INE data, there are around 10 million people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. That's one in five Spaniards, many more if it's about children, and many more who live daily in fear of a stroke of luck causing them to stumble and throw them into the corner of social exclusion. This is, in the first place, a moral shame; in the second place, it is a political problem of first order. There has been a lot of talk lately about polarization among politicians, we talk too much about ourselves, but the most dangerous polarization in Spain is not that politicians tell us thick words, it is the polarization that separates those who are born with the solved life from those who are born with life uphill. And it's also an economic disaster. I express it with a very simple metaphor. It is possible that today in Spain the future vaccine against COVID-19 is in the mind of a poor child, who, because he is poor or because he is born in a family with social exclusion, perhaps he will never be able to develop it, he will never be able to bring it to Spanish society. The vital minimum income goes in the right direction, it's a step in the right direction. We believe that a lot of people are left out and that conditionality is a problem. Then we will support it not as a point of arrival, but as a point of departure. The horizon is the reconstruction of the welfare state for the twenty-first century, and you know that it does or does necessarily happen because of basic income and because automation and the liberation of work do not become more precarious, but rather become more free. Let me end with a reference to the opponents or non-partisans of this measure; some are going to vote no, others are going to vote no by dragging their feet. They are the same ones who would surely have been able to vote no at eight o'clock, who vote no or drag their feet in this case and will vote no for basic income. What unites them is fundamentally mistrust of the Spanish people, but it is a mistrust that has a classy tuphile because it means that you distrust this measure, but you never mistrusted the millions of gifts to the banks to continue playing the casino, the vulture funds or the builders to continue playing the casino. Now, four hundred euros in a humble home to be able to repair the washing machine, to change the curtains or to buy meat at the end of the month, that, just that, does generate mistrust. Despite this, progress must be made in being a stronger society, and that is only done with the cement of social justice. We'll vote yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u234	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u235	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister. We will vote in favour of the measure while asking you to vote in favour of its parliamentary procedure as a bill. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the courtesy of putting forward the measure in time, and not as we have seen recently with a real decree that appears at the press conference and then already at the BOE. There has been an opportunity to comment on the measure and you have also had the opportunity to explain yourself in the Commission. I believe that this is good and enriches the fact that the parliamentary groups can bring some new developments to the approach initially taken by the Government. We would also like this approach to be taken by other ministers of this same Government. However, we ask you to be able to proceed as a bill because we believe that there are value amendments that can have a special impact on this text: to tackle child poverty more thoroughly, to analyse this incompatibility with the child benefit and, therefore, with a benefit that covers other situations - as has been raised here - different from those of the minimum living income. Issues that we do not yet understand, such as those relating to persons with legal disabilities who cannot hold this benefit. When it is said that only persons with the capacity to act can be holders of the benefit, there is automatically no Spanish legislation itself and the United Nations Convention itself ratified by Spain in 2008, denying the legal capacity, the ability to hold rights and obligations to persons who have gone through a judicial process of capacity modification. We believe that this is a great issue that needs to be corrected in the text. Also questions relating to the cost of living, we have raised more than once that the cost of living is not the same in the different areas of Spain and therefore there should be some correction mechanism in this actual decree-law. However, what we did want to transfer is that it is part of our DNA to generate wealth, to try to spread wealth and not to spread misery, to subsidize employment rather than subsidize unemployment and, therefore, to bring all this knowledge and political baggage to the royal decree, but also this political baggage leads us to take into account that we do not want to leave anyone behind. That is why we will vote in favour of the measure. It is also urgent today, Minister, that management be carried out by the Autonomous Communities and, in my part, that management be carried out by the Generalitat de Catalunya. If other autonomous communities can do it - I don't know if the seventeen can do it - I assure you that the Generalitat of Catalonia can. Therefore, we ask you that the management of this vital minimum income can be carried out by the Generalitat de Catalunya, which is, above all, prepared to be able to manage this benefit. Finally, it was also pointed out that this minimum living income is the fourth leg of the welfare state. We have yet to resolve the question of dependency, the financing of dependency. It would also be good if we were to close down issues, solve issues before opening new fronts. In short - I am running out of time - we believe that there is much to be implemented, they will find us at their side to do so, we want this to be a work of all, with political complicity, and above all we want it to be a work with all institutional loyalty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u236	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u237	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Minister; good afternoon, Mr Vice-President. Understand me, it's very good for the left to move from the underground to the commercial; it's very good for the left to move from the marginal to the victorious; it's very good for the left to fill stadiums; it's very good for the left to win, in short. I say this because there is a left that always suspects his victories or always suspects his purity in front of the victories, and this is precisely what is happening here today, that the left has won, that passes from the model to the record, and has won because it has won a cultural battle. And not only is a benefit or help being earned today, but a right is being earned, and that's very good. The minimum living income can be directly the law of divorce of our generation, and as such surely the right will now criticize it and in the future defend it. But when something is won on the street, in politics and in the BOE it is terribly difficult to reverse. Today the Republican Group could talk to you about the good of this aid that dignifies the lives of hundreds of thousands of people, which is a vaccine against job insecurity and, above all, that reactivates consumption and, therefore, the economy. Or the Republican Group could speak to you above all about the evil of this aid or this right: first, that you have to believe a whole year of low income to be able to request it; second, how terribly complicated it is being combined with autonomous aid, with other very similar aid in Basque and Catalonia; and, above all, the unjust, even cruel, which is to draw or isolate from this aid more than a million people who are ill-called illegal or irregular. The main requirement for requesting this help should not be to have or not to have a DNI or a NIE, but rather to be hungry or not to be hungry, and that does not happen. The Republican Group could talk about all this, but on the one hand, we will certainly have time to talk about it and amend it and, on the other, in a world where Bolsonaro, Trump, Abascal, move from the Earthplanist marginality to occupy institutions, I think we must continue to fight that cultural struggle that I spoke about before. There is a right which, every time the left - whatever the flag - speaks of a minimum vital income or that we need an income for any person, for any citizen because of the simple fact of being a human being, comes to say: what do you believe?, what do you believe? What is it about giving 400, 500 or 600 euros to people for their faces? It's a parrot, it's a chollo. I think it should be said that no, that no, that that is not only a lack of respect for the whole working class of this country, but it is a lack of respect for the humble class of this country. Above all it must be said that no, that the paguita, that the chollo is that a family in this country, by its simple surname and for its palace covers eight million euros public per year. That's the parrot and that's the cabbage. That the paguita and the collo is that the 'Cid Campeadores' of the extreme right until very recently they have collected 80 000 euros in chiringuitos of Esperanza Aguirre in Madrid, and I mean Santiago Abascal. That's a parrot and that's a chollo. That the paguita and the collo is to pay or forgive €20 billion to Florentino for the Castor. That's the parrot and the cabbage and that's the country you wanted and the country that's fighting today. I ended with a reminder to someone who, on July 13, 2017, in the Parliament of Catalonia, along with 133 Members of that Parliament, applauded and congratulated himself on a relatively similar aid that is the guaranteed minimum income in Catalonia. A memory for Dolors Bassa, the Labour Counsellor today unjustly imprisoned. It's for you, Dolors, a hug. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u238	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u239	Thank you, President. Vice-President, minister, today with the minimum vital income - already mentioned here - a historic measure is taken that allows Spain to advance in social justice. Minimum vital income is a fundamental measure to end poverty; the United Nations rapporteur, who visited us not long ago and saw the situation of exclusion in which many people were in this country, told us; he has therefore very positively appreciated this measure. The minimum living income is a safety net for all people throughout this country and is going to be an income floor for all families. From now on, citizenship in Spain will be more protected, it can enjoy more security in lives full of uncertainties, of uncertainties caused by the vital precariousness as a result of neoliberal policies of the right. Faced with the release of 2008, a key exit of rights cuts, this government turns 180 degrees and bets to recover rights, yes, but it also expands the social rights catalogue and this is important: minimum living income is a new social right. Moreover, it is a right that I would say opens the door to a new generation of rights where important changes are already perceived. This right is no longer directly linked to work and the labour market, as the minister said, because we are no longer in a Keynesian society of full employment, because work, unfortunately, is no longer the method of social integration. Thus, the new social rights cannot be linked exclusively to the worker, as was done at the birth of the social State - and I speak in masculine terms to the worker - but the new social rights must revolve around the person and his dignity. The feminists have long been betting on the de-laboration of social rights, and in this sense the minimum living income is also revolutionary, because it points to a necessary update of our welfare state, because it puts at the center the lives of people, of all people, regardless of their relationship to the labour market. Now I'd like to do a little democratic pedagogy, especially for the right wing. When some call in a derogatory way the minimum income vital 'paguita', showing - I would say - a great ignorance, I would tell you a couple of things. With the minimum vital income the democratic state - our democratic state - becomes bigger and stronger because there will be more freedom and more equality, which, as you know, are the foundations of any democratic state. If we talk about freedom, the Spanish Constitution recognizes it in article 1.1, but it not only recognizes formal freedom, freedom of non-interference, but also positive freedom. In order for individuals to truly enjoy freedom, they must have a minimum of economic security. If they do not have minimum material resources, that freedom is fictitious, it is a hollow word. And it's not something new; it's not something new. Eighty years ago, Franklin Roosevelt, in a famous speech in Congress, spoke of the four freedoms: freedom of expression, freedom of worship, freedom not to be afraid and freedom to live without hardship, freedom not to be in need. This way of talking about freedoms already involved openness to social rights, especially the right to an adequate standard of living, and had great international influence and was reflected, as we know, in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. So, in short, there is no democracy without freedom and there is no real freedom when the refrigerator cannot be filled. The second of the links of this vital minimum income with the democratic State is equality. Our Constitution recognizes equality, but not only formal equality, not only non-discrimination, but also material equality. Article 9.2 gives a mandate to the public authorities to achieve equality under the real conditions of existence. Therefore, that maximum of 'we are all equal before the law' is neither true nor sufficient, first, because we are not all - because we are all and because we are 'all' - nor are we equal, because we belong to different families and are born under different economic conditions. Equality of opportunity will therefore once again depend on the guarantee of these minimum living conditions and minimum living income is a key element in achieving that goal, in advancing on an equal footing. In addition, he would add something else: minimum living income was already at the heart of the constitutional system itself. It is something that is there and that is derived directly from some precepts that we all know: from the declaration of the social State, from the right to life and from the dignity of the person. All of this makes us all entitled to existence, that is to say to a minimum living income. And it took this government to get it on paper and to get it to all the citizens. Really, I congratulate you. It is something that makes the democratic state and our constitutional system bigger. I'm finishing up. It is true that minimum living income has as its main function to end or combat the extreme poverty of our country, but perhaps we must not forget about everything I have said that what is going to make minimum living income is to strengthen our Constitution, the social and democratic constitutionalism of this country. So I end by saying: congratulations, vice president, congratulations, minister, because at a very hard and very difficult time that we have all lived have been able to expand democracy in the Spanish state, and this does not happen every day. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u240	Thank you very much, Mrs. Garrido. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u241	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, what an extraordinary missed opportunity for all of us in this House to agree on something truly good for our compatriots! Today we could be here celebrating the consensus among all and, unfortunately, however, we will return to the path of the encounter. Because, Minister, we will never find ourselves closer than in the shared desire to help the citizens who are having a bad time. Really, we're never gonna find each other any closer. Believe me, I'm telling you from the heart. [[Applauds]] That is what VOX has been calling for since the beginning of this crisis, to help citizens, not to be left alone. That is why we have asked them over and over again to pay the payroll to all employees and self-employed people for three months to prevent them from losing their jobs, to keep liquidity on the market, to minimize irreparable damage to so many companies. We would have avoided so much suffering, Minister! However, you preferred to abandon the Spaniards to their fate, allowing the destruction of the productive fabric and preventing them from working in exchange for a benefit that you have not even been able to guarantee to everyone. You have engaged many citizens in unemployment and dependency on the queues of hunger, and now it seems that also dependence on a perpetual subsidy. Ladies and gentlemen, VOX firmly believes that people who need it must be supported. VOX believes that a strong social protection system is needed to ensure this and that extraordinary and temporary assistance is needed to complement the system and to support families who cannot access the labour market. We can say this much louder, but no clearer: we want a strong protection system for the Spaniards and for all the people who live legally in Spain and an extraordinary temporary help to support our families. I hope you heard it right. [[Applauds]] Mr. Rufián has come out, but if you're so kind, you'll be told later. But unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are discussing here today is not an extraordinary and temporary measure designed to solve the economic and social problem that has generated this health crisis. Let the Spaniards not be deceived: the measure we are discussing here today is nothing more than Mr. Iglesias' famous and expected star measure, a measure without which the Socialist Party would not have obtained the support of Podemos to govern. It is a measure that was already part of the plan that Mr. Iglesias and his party had for Spain long before all this happened. The implementation of the minimum living income right now and in this way is nothing more than the price we have to pay for the pact with the devil signed by Mr Sánchez to achieve his goal, a pact that is going to come out very expensive, because the devil doesn't care if our protection system is put at risk. That is exactly what we are doing by articulating this measure as a permanent social security benefit: putting our system of protection at risk of death, because we are imposing new structural burdens on a system that was already broken by the increase in retirement expenditure and that, to top it off, will now have to assume a brutal increase in the resources allocated to unemployment benefit. Moreover, this vital minimum income will prolong the situation of inequality between Spaniards generated by autonomy, minister, just when we had the opportunity to order the system of protection of autonomous minimum incomes so that there would be once and for all Spanish first and Spanish second, at least in the fight against poverty. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you too have missed the opportunity to implement the universal social card, as you had planned, which would have served to draw up for the first time a map of public benefits essential to know how and who to help and to be able to attend to the most urgent first. And, to top it off, they hand over to Navarra and the Basque Country functions and services that correspond to the National Institute of Social Security, succumbing again to the blackmail of their other partners, finally breaking the one-size-fits-all box and hurting the Toledo Pact with death, which is very serious, Minister. As is also serious, very serious, the tremendous so-called effect that is causing the announcement of minimum living income in the terms in which you have raised it. You, Minister, appeared last March in the Committee on the Toledo Pact to underline recommendation 19, which says that the flow of migration must be channelled through mechanisms that guarantee the inclusion of people in the labour market, a position in which you all agreed and which we too share. What happened then, Mr. Escriva? How is it possible that we are now faced with a totally unconnected benefit from the search for employment? Minister, with which it is falling, it makes no sense, none, to allow persons who have legal residence in Spain to benefit from the minimum living income only one year before the application knowing how easy it is to meet this requirement. It is impossible that we can face all the requests that will come to us. It makes no sense that any illegal immigrant who is a victim of trafficking in human beings can be a beneficiary, because that is like saying that all immigrants who arrive at our shores will be beneficiaries, because they are all victims, Minister, victims of trafficking and victims of trafficking, and they are because they are in a situation of terrible vulnerability. Or is it that when a mother gets into a patera with her baby, risking her life and that of her child, after having paid money that she doesn't have to the trafficking mafias - money that those same mafias probably lent her to know in exchange for what and with what interests - she is no longer morally a victim of trafficking? Ladies and gentlemen, all developed countries have a legal and moral obligation to help the poorest countries; we have an obligation to create just economic and trade conditions so that they can get out of poverty; we have a duty to help them at source so that they are not forced to leave everything, to sell themselves to the mafias and to risk their lives on the way. Precisely for this is the policies of international cooperation to which we must contribute with the greatest generosity and responsibility. We all care about people who suffer in any corner of the planet, under any circumstances. We all have the heart and sense of justice and conscience, you are not the only ones, but national policy is limited to the borders of States. I wish it were in our hands to save the world! I wish! But it's not like that. We are only national Members and we are here with a clear mandate to ensure the well-being of our compatriots, to protect and help our entrepreneurs, our self-employed, our workers, our families, to work so that anyone living in Spanish territory has a decent job, a sufficient wage and the best living conditions, so that everyone has their rights guaranteed, and also so that we can all demand the fulfilment of their duty, something that we often forget but which is fundamental for us not to overthrow with one hand what we build with the other. Mr Escrivá, we are convinced that implementing this measure in these conditions will not only bring academic ruin and moral ruin to our people, it will also cause us to contribute to the continued enrichment of the mafias at the expense of the innocent lives of thousands of vulnerable and desperate people who, at best, end up as slave labour or cannon meat of a society that does not have the real capacity to welcome them and give them the dignified life they deserve. We had an opportunity, Minister, a precious opportunity; we had at your side to support what could have been a good measure to help the Spaniards who most need it at such an extraordinarily difficult time as this...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u242	Mrs. Ruiz, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u243	I'm done, Madam President. ...and they've ruined everything by articulating it so badly. Minister, you have decided to submit to the blackmail of your partners, you have sold your soul to those who only intend to sweeten and impoverish the Spaniards by offering them an honorless pay instead of decent work, the fruit of their individual effort. We are not going to vote against this measure, Minister, because our compatriots need help, but neither can we vote in favour, because we neither want nor should we take part in this madness, when what is at stake is the present and future of our pensioners, our children and all the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Marcos Domínguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u245	Thank you, Madam President. 1978, Spanish Constitution, Title VIII: the autonomous communities still to be constituted will take care of social services. With this constitutional mandate, since 1989 the autonomy, and especially those of the PP, set in motion the first minimum income. Fraga, does that ring a bell? Because the People's Party has never been alien to the fight against poverty. We argue that the best social shield is employment and that a minimum income demonstrates its effectiveness when it ceases to be necessary. We defend employment as a social policy, because we want a society of free people, not a selfish society of dependent people. Therefore, the most reasonable thing today is to avoid the beneficial sermon that Mr. Iglesias has given us. This IMV is not your project, lucky for everyone. The 20/2020 aims to implement something similar to a non-contributory pension supplement system for lower incomes, nothing further than the claims of Podemos of universal income. Remember, Mr. Iglesias, to praise Mr. De Guindos when he preaches for Zoom, among those registered who no longer vote for him, the goodness of a project that is not his. [[Applauds]] It should not be a project that discourages employment and encourages the submerged economy. It is true that 20/2020 has many flaws about which the AIReF had alerted by commenting the ILP to the unions, but it is not what Podemos wanted, as Mr Rufián has clearly explained with meridian. From here, with the permission of Mr Iglesias, I will speak with the Minister of Inclusion, the author of the project. Minister, in 2015 Spain was beginning to emerge from the huge economic crisis that started in 2008 and to plunge into an unexplored political crisis, which is already structural; there is nothing more to see than its Council of Ministers. That 2015 was an election year and we talked about minimum income. The PP incorporated in its programme the proposals to coordinate the existing system of autonomous minimum incomes in order to improve their efficiency. The unions then collected signatures to bring their ILP to Congress. And for this project, in February 2018, and at the request of the PP, the president of the AIReF, Mr Escrivá, appeared here. So much interest aroused his speech that President Rajoy commissioned a report from him. It is going to make just one year that it became public, ruled in office Mr Sánchez, and in December the pact between PSOE and Podemos includes the minimum income. But all that was before the pandemic, in pre-COVID Spain. March 2020. Alarm state, three months and tens of thousands of deaths later, the health crisis accumulates the economic and a massive destruction of employment and productive fabric by the great recession. Spain will be the economy that will collapse the most, the OECD warns today. Unemployment will punish a quarter of the working population, the Banco de España warns. This tragedy is compounded by an indeterminate, enormous number of people pushed into poverty. But the economic victims of COVID are not the recipients of this royal decree-law, but are embedded in 20/2020 to justify urgency. What is left of that report from a distant 2019, Minister? I recommended these three things. First, to simplify the minimum income system by avoiding overlapping between benefits from different administrations. Now Minister Escrivá asks almost all autonomy to give up its powers in order not to overlap; the Basque Country is not going to be angry with the partners. And what about equality among the Spaniards? Secondly, ensuring complementarity with active employment policies. This recommendation, like almost all the essentials of minimum living income, remains for future regulatory development, and it would be key for the IMV to be linked to the search for employment. Thirdly, it should be set up in a medium-term budgetary plan to compensate for the structural increase in expenditure. On the deficit, Minister, let us not speak, that last week your successor in the AIReF warned of a stratospheric 14%. It is interesting to read that report and to note that Minister Escrivá does not agree with Mr Escrivá and, vice versa, that Mr Escrivá would be furious with Minister Escrivá if he knew that he was able to bring to this House a rule of these characteristics without economic memory. Possibly even Minister Escrivá is very upset with Minister Escrivá, but he will not say so. We are, because we are not infected with sanchism. We are going to tell you four key rulings of this royal decree-law: the government appropriates autonomous competition, except for the Basque Country and Navarra, assumes the duplication of the provision and trusts that it is the autonomous governments that step aside and renounce a constitutional order to devote their resources to other policies. The project has something positive, such as the recovery of the social card, which the Rajoy Government has prepared. And you said Monday - and you said today - that we would not seek a competitive struggle. This opens the door to a reasonable model, the one of coordination and cooperation, not the one of substitution provided for in 20/2020. It is also wrong for this Government to expect that the management for the implementation of the new minimum living income will fall to the municipalities, without providing them with the necessary resources. Let them do it with their surplus, they say. What if they don't? Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a public administration that has turned into this crisis to really help the economic victims of COVID, it is the municipalities. [[Applauds]] We would like to move from here the most grateful recognition to your work. And if there is another public administration that has used the victims of COVID to invade other people's powers and to arrogate itself the monopoly of goodness, it is Mr Sánchez's government. We would like to move, from here, the most consistent repudiation of that way of doing politics. I'm done, Madam President. It would have been reasonable to bring a draft minimum income law agreed with everyone, with autonomy and municipalities, with social actors and with the third sector, even with the opposition - agreed, not only commented on - a text with all the guarantees, that 20/2020 has no economic memory, reports of the Council of State and of the Economic and Social Council. And the important thing: to deal with the economic victims of COVID, it would have been necessary to have promoted a temporary emergency aid for those who do not have any other safety nets for the pandemic. We already know that reasonableness with this Government is impossible, but this party has always worked towards reducing poverty. Autonomous minimum incomes and, above all, the employment figures of all the PP governments do so. We demand that this House's capacity to amend a text that it cannot like or its most serious author. We already know he doesn't like it, even if he hides it, from the other. Well, that determination and conviction support the meaning of our vote to a decree that must be amended as a bill. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u246	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marcos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Carcedo Roces.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u247	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Vice President, thank you very much. [[Applauds]] And also, thank you very much to the President of the Government, who committed himself, committed himself and, every time he came up to this rostrum, to complete our welfare state and set in motion the minimum living income. [[Applauds]] I open quotes: 'Let them not provoke a debate that does not correspond to reality. These are purely statistical reports.' Cristóbal Montoro, Minister of Finance and Public Service. We are faced with the negationism of a reality, as this House is plagued by the negationism of climate change, segregation, etc., from that bench. But I was saying more, because this was a response to Caritas, but, of course, being wrong with such an organization is a little complicated. He then says: No, no, no, but I recognize the absolutely vital social role of driving social cohesion. How? Who has the responsibility to promote social cohesion? NGOs, which deal with the most disastrous effects of the lack of social cohesion and the lack of political action by those responsible for implementing public policies aimed at social cohesion? That is the problem and that is confusion. Obviously, today there are many good people in this country who are happy, and of course we have to be happy above all because we are doing our work addressing very important needs of our citizens and responding to a situation that is obvious, and that is that in this country there is a very unfair distribution of wealth, very unfair. [[Applauds]] That is called inequality and this measure is intended to combat that inequality and to combat the most harmful effects of that inequality, which is poverty, the families living in poverty. And I often say don't worry, you don't get infected, but you do inherit, and there are children living in those poor-born homes and for those who are going to be a burden and a disadvantage for their whole life, and in a decent country that can't be consented to and cannot be tolerated. [[Rumors.-Several Members: But shut up, man!-Mr. Casero Ávila utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u248	Mr. Casaro Ávila, please remain silent!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u249	That's the problem and that's what we're debating here today. Undoubtedly, I was pointing to those who support this initiative, for guiding me a little, and I am really glad that the People's Party supports it. [[Protests.-A congressman: Shut up, Homer!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u250	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u251	Whenever you want, I'll go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u252	Keep quiet, please. Go on, Mrs. Carcedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u253	By the way, this income is not a social service, it is a benefit, like many others, and non-contributory, it will not touch the Social Security funds of the public pension system; it is non-contributory. I'm just saying in case there's some misconceptions in the air. When such a policy is put in place, fears, mistrusts begin immediately: what is going to happen?, there will be fraud! I assure you that if we were here debating an initiative of the same amount for a tax deduction from any market acquisition that can be bought by people who have income that can be allowed certain purchases, there would certainly be no word; for the same cost, eh?, by tax deduction. But since it's an expense - which would be an investment - for the most needy people, then they're already going to commit fraud, they're going to go to the submerged economy and they're going to be lazy because they won't want to work. A little respect for our fellow citizens who are not second-rate, who are as first-rate as we are and as the richest people in this country; they are equal and constitutionally equal fellow citizens. It is already worth ideological apriorisms in the analysis of this public policy. [[Prolonged applause]] There's another question that's also in the air... jolin, what a shame, guys! [[Rumors]] Excuse me. [[Laughs and applause.-Protests]] There is another issue, which is the reckless disdain for academic consensus and for the agreements and consensus of multinational institutions in measuring us as a society and being able to compare us. To measure us. They are statistical data, but the statistics are agreed in international bodies of the OECD, IMF, Eurostat, and we all measure the same in the INE, and we all compare the same, and the international bodies have been telling us over and over again that we have to take this measure. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u254	Quiet, please. Mrs. Carcedo, just a moment, please. [[Pause]] I do not want to interrupt the speaker again in order to ask for silence; silence and respect for the speaker in the rostrum, who is currently Mrs. Carcedo, no one else, just Mrs. Carcedo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u255	Our Eurostat system, through the Arope indicator, for example, tells us that more than a third of our children live below the poverty line. The IMF, I do not read again the assessment it made of this measure, which the Vice-President of the Government read. OECD, every year! makes a report on Spain and every year! reminds us that our system of income distribution, redistribution, is a little unfair. For each euro allocated to the poorest 10% income, we allocate 5% to the richest 10%. That's why I was telling them that if we had brought another policy here, they wouldn't be worried at all. And I also have to remind you that the approach of this public policy is made from very selective constitutionalism; very selective. Now that that has loosened up a little bit from the constitutionalist select club, how many times in this House was article 2, biased interpretations, debates of all kinds? And the 1st? The first condition of our State, the social State, how much concern it generated in this House! Fortunately, today we're giving it to you. Or how many times do we talk about Title VIII of the Constitution, which we also discuss days, days and days? And how many times do we dedicate ourselves to the third chapter of Title I?, where is article 40, of fair redistribution of income or 41, where is this income based? That is, we have the obligation, the obligation!, the constitutional mandate to create a system of protection for people in need, and many of our fellow citizens are. Or that of protection for families, of all families, of all, not of some. And that children enjoy social protection, in accordance with the international commitments we make as a country. I'm done, Madam President, because I'm running out of time. And I end up remembering Oscar Wilde: 'Children start by loving their parents. When they have grown up, they judge them, and sometimes even forgive them.' Let us forgive ourselves for an important part of our childhood that is in a situation of poverty and great disadvantages for its future, but we are also putting our competitiveness as the future of the country at risk. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u256	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carcedo. [[Mrs Álvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos calls for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u257	Mrs Alvarez de Toledo, on the basis of which article I am asked to speak? Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: I just wanted to inform Mrs Carcedo that this group is going to vote yes, I don't know if you've heard, because because of her... [[Applause. - Several Members say words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u258	Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo, thank you. Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. [[Mrs Vázquez utters words that are not perceived]] Mrs. Vazquez, please. [[Mrs Lastra Fernández asks for the floor]] Excuse me, Minister. Mrs. Lastra?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u259	On a point of order. We have been holding the popular bench for the whole session, but the insults to former Minister Carcedo from the popular bench are already unacceptable. So I ask Mrs Vázquez and all the others, who have been insulting this bench for 20 minutes and especially former Minister Carcedo, unless they withdraw them and above all apologize. [[Mrs Álvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u260	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u261	Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank the general constructive tone with which this royal decree-law, this government initiative, has been received. That if I have not cast a bad vote against, the general consensus that has been generated should at this time be a reason for general gratification, and in that I believe we should stay. I have taken note of the various individual observations that have been made. I don't think it's time to go to them. I understand that if you decide that it is processed as a bill we will analyze it with the utmost attention and we will see its fit. There are some that even fit into regulatory development. I believe that we will have the opportunity to see all these observations there. But again I want to thank at this time and above all the work of the last few weeks with the groups and the work with the autonomous communities. I personally have met with the social advisors responsible for each and every one of the autonomous communities at least twice. Some of the elements that are in this rule have been agreed upon and aligned with them. We have spoken with the municipalities and with the FEMP, of course also with the third sector, we have had contributions from employers, trade unions, many people have contributed to this standard having this level of consensus at the moment. It's perfectable; we have a chance to do it. I said before it's a living rule, let's go see how it works. Some of the observations that have been made here can be evaluated over time. It is not that there is economic memory, it is that a standard has never been so evaluated and we have never made available to all groups so much ex ante analysis and information. That will allow us to have discussions here in the future systematically and to see exactly what things are working well and what are working badly. And I end by extending the thanks, which I believe is necessary in this case, to the technical teams, to the officials who have been working these months in order to be able to bring this rule here and have presented it, and not only that, but deployed. We are going to start paying for vital income in the next few days, we are going to have almost 300 000 people who are going to receive it already in June, we are going to extend their recognition to all those who ask for it in three months from June, and I think that this is an element that we could not have done without the efforts of a lot of people, a lot of people in the administration who have contributed. They are also part, together with all of us, together with all the bodies with which we have interacted, of this, in my opinion, collective success. Thank you very much. [[The second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030, Iglesias Turrión, comes to congratulate the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, Escrivá Belmonte]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u262	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u263	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist and Confederal Parliamentary Groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common, concerning the withdrawal of decorations to Francoist officials and authorities who had observed conduct incompatible with democratic values and the principles of the protection of human rights. For the presentation of the initiative, intervenes, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common, Mrs Velarde Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u264	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to begin my intervention in defence of this initiative by first thanking all the women and men who dedicated the best years of their lives to fighting for freedom and democracy in our country. And let me also begin by asking for forgiveness from these men and women because after the adoption of our Constitution, forty-two years ago, we have not yet withdrawn the honors, honorary titles and retired medals from those torturers who fought with the founders and the founders of our democracy. Many times we talk about the parents of the Spanish Constitution and we refer only to the deputies who participated in the drafting of our magna letter, but the parents of our rights and freedoms were also men like Juan, an Andalusian migrant journalist who came to Madrid to work in a factory, who joined the Workers' Commissions and who one day, leaving the union assembly and on their way home, arrested him. They took him to the General Directorate of Security, at the Puerta del Sol, and they tortured him in the bathtub. For those who do not know, that macabre practice consisted in filling a bathtub with dirty water and immersing the victim's head until just before he lost consciousness or suffocated, and so an hour, two hours, three hours, a whole night. This democracy of ours is also due to Julián Grimau, also tortured in those dependencies of the Puerta del Sol, thrown into the void from a second floor. We also owe it to Victor Díaz-Cardiel, one of the political prisoners who has been in Francoist prisons for the longest time. The crime of both, fighting for democracy from the ranks of the Communist Party. Our democracy was also brought by women like Lydia Falcon, to whom, as you will remember well, the torturer Billy el Niño, who recently passed away with his medal to intact police merit, beat in the belly as he said, "You'll bet no more, bitch! She was brought by women like Pilar Aguilar, arrested and tortured in Seville for taking May 68 to the Spanish university. Our rights and freedoms are owed to good men like Chato Galante, recently killed because of the coronavirus, who was also tortured by Billy the Child and who will not be able to see, like so many others, how we will revoke the honors of the torturer. Another father of our democracy, Paco Lobatón, was arrested the faculty of Political Sciences of Madrid for his militancy in an organization for freedom and democracy. Mrs Álvarez de Toledo is not here, but I am saying this for her to listen to: democratic organizations, not terrorists. [[Applauds]] During the dictatorship, the only terrorist organization in our country was called Francoism and the only terrorists were its members. [[rumors.-Mr. Guijarro García: That, that!]] [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] In Buenos Aires, just like Mrs. Álvarez de Toledo did not teach her the history of Spain well, but I think she will know that the causes, the complaints of Spain have reached there, as far as Argentina. Out of democratic shame, ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament cannot take much longer to pass a law that takes away the honours of those who have abhorred our democratic values and our country. We're late and we know it, very late, but better late than never. Doing justice, honouring the memory of the parents of our rights and freedoms, who paid with prisons, exile and torture their commitment to democracy is the noblest work on which we can legislate in this House, ladies and gentlemen. There will be those who say that it is not the time, that it does not touch now; they are the same ones who have never found a gap in forty-two years for our democratic system to break its ties with the Franco dictatorship. We are the only country in Europe that has not yet banished any shadow of fascism from our institutions. In Córdoba, where I live, a few months ago the government of the PP and Citizens, with the invaluable support of VOX, has again put on the streets Francoist names that were already withdrawn in the previous term. It would be unthinkable for Merkel in Germany or Macron in France, who are right-wing politicians, to put Nazi names on the streets of Paris or on the streets of Berlin. Unthinkable. The difference between the European right and the Spanish right is that the European right is anti-fascist, which is the same as democratic, while the Spanish right does not loose its link with Francoism, and anti-fascism is a culture of peace, coexistence, pluralism and freedom. [[Rumors]] Yes, freedom, democracy, inclusion, equality, while fascism is death. [[Applauds]] So to approve this GNP is to vote in favour of democracy. I do not know whether VOX will vote in favour, because its ideology is the same as that of Billy the Child or that of Donald Trump, but you, gentlemen of the PP and gentlemen of VOX, should stand next to antifascism, as your colleagues in Europe do, so that our democracy is not stained for longer by titles, appointments, honors and retired medals to torturers who mistreated parents of our rights and mothers of our freedoms. I close this speech, ladies and gentlemen, as I opened it, with two words: thanks and forgiveness. Thanks to the memorial movements for marking the way for us to be here today, because this message was urgent, but what is urgent is that it be translated into law. Thanks to all the people who dedicated the best years of their life to putting the body to defend freedom and democracy. And I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u265	Mrs. Velarde, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u266	I'm done. Forgive me, and I say this from the heart, forgive me for coming so late to this page of our past that it is urgent to face so that it is clear to future generations who were the democrats and who were the torturers; who were the villains and who were the heroes and the heroines, and who were the good and the good and who were the wicked. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u267	Thank you, Mrs. Velarde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Gil. Mr Sicilia Alferez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u268	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, no one would understand that in a democratic and legal system like ours we could pay tribute to those who for forty years ended the rights and freedoms of the Spanish population and attacked the principles and values that our Constitution proclaims today. While in France or Austria the advocacy of war crimes is condemned, in our democracy we could honor a coup player like Franco, who provoked a civil war, and exalt the dictatorship he imposed. That dictatorship that sent into exile thousands of anonymous women and men, and not so anonymous, such as Victoria Kent, Maria Zambrano or Neus Català. While democracies like the German or the Italian condemn the exaltation of the dictatorship they suffered, in our democracy we could honor a dictator like Franco and exalt the totalitarian regime of Francoism, which had thousands of innocent men and women shot, thousands of innocent people like Carmen Barrero, Martina Barroso, Blanca Brisac, Pilar Bueno, Julia Conesa, Adelina García, Elena Gil, Virtues González, Ana López Gallego, Joaquina López Laffite, Dionisia Manzanero, Victoria Muñoz or Luisa Rodríguez de la Fuente, the Thirteen Roses, ladies and gentlemen, whom we will not fail to name and remember. [[applause]] For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Government of Zapatero in 2007 passed the Historical Memory Act. Because our country had the right to know the truth of what the military coup of Franco and Francoism meant, and our democracy had to do justice and repair the victims of the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship. Because a full and healthy democracy, ladies and gentlemen, could not consent to having in the square of Santa Ana the sculpture of Federico García Lorca, while in the square of San Juan de la Cruz was Franco on horseback. Because a healthy democracy, a full democracy, could not bear to have in its street streets dedicated to Millán-Astray while next door there was a square dedicated to Antonio Machado. That is why the law of democratic memory, the law of historical memory, and there is still a way to go, as Antonio Machado said. That is why my group, together with the Group of the European People's Party, is bringing this initiative to plenary, because there is still a way to go, ladies and gentlemen; a way to go in the recovery of the democratic memory of our country. One of these paths is to prevent institutions of our State, that the already democratic institutions of our State can reward people who, by relying precisely on those institutions, act against their values. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must seek the legal way to revoke the decorations and rewards granted by the State to officials or public authorities who, before or after that concession, perform acts or conduct incompatible with democratic values and with the principles of human rights protection. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the intention of the Socialist Government and the current coalition Government to withdraw these decorations is not new. In fact, the former socialist government has already begun to work on this path. It was the socialist government, with Minister Marlaska, in June 2018 that demanded a report to know the decorations that Billy the Child had received during his police career. In October 2018 Minister Marlaska announced a normative text to proceed with the withdrawal of these medals to Billy the Child, a text that was ready, that only needed a legal framework to include it, but, as you well know, there was an electoral advance that stopped this from happening. The commitment of the Socialist Group and the Socialist Party remained intact, and this was reflected in our April 2019 electoral programme, in which we talked not only about police officers, but about anyone - whether official or not - who had received any official decoration and acted in a manner incompatible with human rights and democratic values. Ladies and gentlemen, the coalition government, the current government between PSOE and the United Nations Podemos, included in its agreement precisely this issue that we are bringing to plenary today. We bring it to revalidate our commitment, to revalidate the commitment, even after the death of Billy the Child, to regulate the withdrawal of these decorations and to move further forward, ladies and gentlemen; not only to withdraw these decorations, but to go further in an important reform of the Historical Memory Act of 2007 that leads us to a new law, to a law of democratic memory. The law of 2007 was a milestone in the development of our country as a democratic country and which was watching over public policies of memory. However, with more than a decade of perspective we can see the need to update that law, which, as I say, has been in force for ten years and in which we want to go further in order to achieve the objectives already set by that same law. To advance with a new law of democratic memory that allows exhuming the victims who are still buried in the graves, and to do so with the support of the public, the State, with the funding of the State, supporting families so that they can recover the remains of their family members, with a DNA bank that allows to identify victims and family members. To protect also through this law of democratic memory those significant spaces and places during the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship, and to be able to fix a day in the year to remember and recognize all the victims of the Franco dictatorship, because, ladies and gentlemen, forgetfulness is a condemnation that our democracy cannot apply to those who gave their lives for a Spain in freedom. And look, ladies and gentlemen, surely this is a difficult issue, we have already found it difficult to withdraw these decorations, but it was harder to get Franco out of the Valley of the Fallen and we did. [[Applauds]] We'll do this too. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a memorable day for our democracy, today we are adopting a new right, minimum living income, and soon there will be a new right, the right that our democracy deserves to the dignity, justice and reparation of the victims of Francoism. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u269	Thank you very much, Mr Sicily. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Pilar. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mr Iñarritu García, the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u270	Thank you very much, Madam President. Arritsalde on, good afternoon, everyone. Before starting, I wanted to express my condolences to all those people who have lost a family member during this severe pandemic and in the same way to remember two people: one of them is Chato Galante, who has left us during these days, who was an anti-Franchist referent and who suffered the repression and tortures of Mr. Billy the Child, and, in the same way, wanted to remind Mr. Bixente Serrano Izko, also an anti-Franchist referent of Navarra, of Nafarroa, who was our companion during the X Legislature, to both of them, agur eta ohore biei. Ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal because we believe it is positive and fair. Now, we think there's a late movie coming or expected more, because at this point in the film, and Mr.Sicilia said, I agree, if we look at the hemeroteca, it's true that you have consistently said that you want to take away the medals, the decorations, Mr. Billy the Child and his companions. Similarly, this was the agreement between their two formations and, in fact, there is a bill that is registered in this House, but it is surprising that they have not brought a legislative initiative so that we try to remove them now directly and not talk about what needs to be done in the future. Recently the newspaper El País said that Interior has for months a plan to withdraw the decorations and special salary increases to Billy el Niño for the services provided as a member of the National Police. For this very week the government has told me that neither plan nor report nor note nor anything; someone lies or was smoke. We have tabled two amendments, and one of them is to say that not only were tortures and human rights violations occurred during Francoism, it is true that they occurred especially during Francoism, but also during that period called Transition; by the way, I encourage you to read a book in this library of Professor Sophie Baby of the University of Bourgogne, whose doctoral thesis refers to the myth of the Transition, is an illuminating book. Similarly, we can take a look at the dozens of convictions for torture - in Strasbourg, convictions of the United Nations CAT, of Spanish courts as well - and we will see how in some cases, as in cases of torture committed in the Basque context, the majority of agents who have been convicted of such acts, like those who were convicted of crimes related to State terrorism, were not only pardoned, but were promoted and decorated; in fact, not during Mr Marlaska's term. Therefore, it is understandable and you will agree that the decorations must be taken away from those who have been convicted of torturing in Francoism, but also those who have been convicted of torturing in the period of transition to democracy, I say. We have also tabled an amendment saying that it was not just Billy the Child, no; we have made a list of all those people who are included in the Argentine lawsuit, but we could go further for the reasons I mentioned earlier. We believe that it must be global, and we must remove them from Francoism and from post-Franchism. In fact, in a parliamentary question I put to Mr Marlaska on 12 February, he himself told me that there was a bill to carry out this withdrawal, and he encouraged us to support it from Euskal Herria Bildu. I told him yes, that without any problem: those of Francoism and those of post-Franchism. In fact, what we are waiting for is precisely that regulation and moving from words to deeds. In relation to the titles of nobility, it is true - Mrs Velarde has mentioned - the ignominy that involves putting names of Francos, totalitarians, on the streets of the society of Córdoba, but I also encourage you to take a walk through the Museum of the Army of Toledo where, before the death mask of Franco - I until recently did not even know what it was - the information panel says that Franco was a hero of Spain; and this with a government of the Socialist Party and of the United We can. To see that things also happen in institutions that depend on your Government. I ended, Minister, by saying that the withdrawal of these decorations would be positive not only to give dignity to the victims of torture, but also that I believe it would be positive for the State Security Forces and Corpses, to differentiate the grain from straw, to differentiate the torturers from all those who are not, which I imagine are the vast majority. Similarly, I believe it would help to improve this society in democratic values and in values of justice. Thank you very much, Madam President. We shall vote in a positive way.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u272	Thank you, President. Still in a pandemic with tens of thousands of dead, hundreds of thousands of people in unemployment, destroyed businesses, broken families for losing a loved one knowing he was dying alone, and what do you bring here? Franco. It doesn't fail. As fair as the proposal is, I think there is more tacticalism than good intention, and I explain myself. They bring here today, for example, to withdraw the decorations to Billy the Child, famous torturer and entrepreneurial person who died last May with all his medals. And he died with all his medals with you in the government, with Pedro Sánchez about to serve two years in the Moncloa. Moreover, in February of this year he saw how Podemos and PSOE voted against investigating Billy the Child's actions. Anyway, I want you to reflect on being always around with these issues, because they also bring civil war into your text. Think. Has any of us pulled your dead son out of the rubble of a bombardment? Anyone in this House? Have any of us ever seen your friends or family shot in the street? Have they taken their father or brother before their eyes knowing that they were going to kill him? No, no, Well, look, who did take their dead children out of the rubble of a bombardment, who did see friends and family shot in the street, who did see family members taken to those they would never see again, they all agreed in the transition to look forward and not backward. And don't get away with genealogies, grandparents or militias, because the struggle for freedom is not hereditary. Ideology and crime, too. Stop spouting in the past merits that are not able to do in the present. Billy the Child tortured people, Francoism was a vile and condemnable regime, and fascism and its cousin Communism are harmful ideologies that watered with blood Europe and Asia. I'm doing a reflection on things we're seeing these days. What effect does it have on the memory of the victims of fascism calling anyone fascist? What effect does genocide have, as nationalists do, on what happens in Catalonia? This effect tells us Pascal Bruckner in his book The Temptation of Innocence, and it is that words are emptied of content. If it's all fascism, when gentlemen come down the street dressed in brown beating people up for political ideas, they won't be able to call it. If it's all genocide, when a mad dictator gives for slaughtering an ethnic group, we'll denounce genocide, but words won't mean anything anymore. Then think about it, think about the terms that use very lightly. And the same goes for those who claim to be victims of chavism, because they have to be in their homes during a state of alarm. Little favor do those who are really suffering Maduro. If you want to be heroes, be it on your own merits, don't mess with other people's deeds. In the PNL they arrive at the civil war. On what criteria? Why don't we go seven years before? In Spain there was another dictatorship. Was it not that the PSOE ruled with that dictatorship already and used it to eradicate anarchist unions? Our amendments argue that this is not a general cause and we will vote if you accept them, because it makes no sense to withdraw a decoration that may have been given in the Sahara, in Sidi Ifni or fighting terrorism, because there was a terrorist gang active during the franchise, Mrs de Podemos. Before I'm done, I want to go back to the '30s. Yesterday a deputy from Esquerra said that the police in Spain kill for racist reasons. I'm gonna show you things, little things from the '30s. This is a poster on which he puts 'We stop immigration' and published it by the Català State. [[shows a poster]] And where is the Català State integrated? On the Republican Left. This, in which he puts 'Conservate our ethnicity, outside the Spaniards', is signed by Nosaltres Sols, who joined the Català State, which is integrated into the Republican Left. [[shows a poster]] And this, in which he puts 'Segregation Papers, scientific foundations of racism', very interesting and available at the Autonomous University of Barcelona - he talks about the measures of the skulls of blacks, whites, Chinese and Catalan supremacy -, he signs Nosaltres Sols, integrated in Republican Esquerra. [[shows a poster]] But let's move on to a closer time. Do you know who said: In America blacks have a coefficient lower than whites? Heribert Barrera, President of Esquerra Republicana until 1995. Do you know who said: Spanish people have more genetic proximity to Portuguese than Catalans? Oriol Junqueras, president of Esquerra Republicana. Mrs de Squerra Republicana de Catalunya, if you are concerned about racism, respect the police and abandon your party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u273	Thank you, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the defence of its amendments, Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u274	With all due respect, Your Honor. After hearing many lies and perhaps more nonsense, I will proceed to make use of this turn. We have tabled four abolition amendments, each on the four points of the substantial part of the GNP. We therefore announce the vote against our group on this initiative. VOX is contrary to any absurd claim of historical revisionism of any sign, including that of the October 2019 European Parliament that condemned, both national socialism and communism. This is no use at all, except to achieve what you intend to do today, and these interventions that have preceded me give a good account of this. And you're the ones who talk about chryspation. PNL is unacceptable in all respects, essentially for three reasons. The first is legal. Non-retroactivity means that laws are for future events and not for the past. There is already a fragment of Demosthenes on this issue, although it is considered that it is Cicero who first, with intellectual authority, addressed this issue, curiously, in a speech against Cayo Verres, who practiced these retroactive laws. He was the tyrant who ruled Sicily. In our historical right, the principle of non-retroactivity in the real estate, in the laws of departure, in comparative constitutionalism, in the tenth section of the first article of the American Constitution of 1788, which prohibits ex post facto laws, and in the model civil code of all European codification, which is the Civil Code of Napoleon of 1804, in the second article. And all this is not a detail of erudition, which I already know is inaccessible to the proponent groups of this initiative, because they know nothing of this and also do not want to know it, because they do not care anything; they are very ignorant and are also perverse in their purposes. No, this serves to emphasize that his initiative is typical of barbarism and contrary to civilization. It also provides for non-retroactivity as a principle in article 2.3 of the Civil Code and constitutionalizes it in article 9.3 of the 1978 text, which emphasizes that this is particularly the case for non-favorable penal provisions. The proposed revocation is materially punitive and not favourable, because any rule intended to give effect to this claim would necessarily constitute a sanction, and would not be favourable to the person deprived of his or her decoration, honor, reward or whatever; for greater reason when the intended effect is not to regulate the unexhausted effects of those honours, but rather the intended effect is the revocation of the act of concession itself, which is pre-law. Therefore, this totally excludes the possible constitutionality of a rule that would give rise to this claim expressed in the GNP, because it would not even be a medium-grade retroaction. The amendments cite the constitutional jurisprudence that justifies what I have been saying, and that would therefore unconstitutionalise any law that develops this GNP. It is even intended to revoke in relation to persons who have already died, which is characteristic of the legal delirium. There is a State Advocate's report which already warned of the absolute illegality of this claim. By the way, the recent proposal recorded in this House of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for a law on democratic memory, in its article 12, does not include the revocation of these honors to deceased persons, which this GNP now seems to postulate as a remedy. Who are you trying to fool? I tell you this: those who ignore the above, that is, those who do not know the law, and those who share with you their most distorted intentions radically contrary to the main elements of the law. Otherwise, you're always unbalanced. Nothing is said in the Act on Historical Memory of the Crimes of the Governors of the Second Republic, even though they are mentioned in its explanatory statement and article 1. [[Rumors]] May I continue?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u275	He's running out of time, but he's done with the surgery.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u276	Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance. What then remains of the crimes of the rulers of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the Communist Party of Spain in the republican period, except in the radical-cedist bioenium and during the civil war? Doesn't this interest you? Doesn't this deserve review? You represent the deadliest ideology in history, about a hundred million dead. Rethink if you want to think about the truth, stop bothering the Spaniards and abandon these pretensions already without any intellectual foundation and full of hatred, which is what you profess. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u277	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Pilar. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group for the first time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u278	Thank you very much, Madam President. I reject this initiative signed and presented to the alimon by the two parties that are part of the Government, in its indisguised strategy and escalation towards the historical revisionism of the funnel, which today reaches the chapter of withdrawal of decorations and distinctions. More than four decades after the Spaniards first built a full and inclusive democracy in two centuries, some intend to return to the streets by irresponsibly reopening old wounds already overcome. From Asturias we invite the proponents to review the history of Spain completely because, just as the Creed does not begin with Pontius Pilate, the tragedy of the civil war recalls other episodes, such as the coup d'état of 1934 against the Second Republic - encouraged among others by socialist leaders meanings - that burned and destroyed the University of Oviedo and dynamitated the Holy Chamber in the Cathedral of San Salvador, with irreparable loss of life and the disappearance of an incalculable cultural heritage. Ladies and gentlemen, in the middle of the transition this House adopted, in 1977, during the Constituent Legislature, an Amnesty Act preceded a year before another partial amnesty in order to definitively overcome the previous stage, and to begin a united path towards democracy for all Spaniards. I see with sadness - and with this I conclude, Madam President - that some people do not wish to go over the page ever, but I, from this rostrum, which was the scene of those events, appeal to the best spirit of reconciliation to vote against this non-law proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u279	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same parliamentary group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u280	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too have been drawn to the attention of both Podemos and the Socialist Party who present this initiative as a GNP, bearing in mind that it is the government, and do not do so directly. The truth is that it attracts attention, because if you have so much haste to do this, that it is legitimate to be in haste - it has been two years of socialist government but it has been months since the current government with Podemos, so it could be said that it is Podemos that has pushed this more - it is logically normal that they would have done it as a government, that they would have brought an initiative here and we would have saved ourselves all this time. If it is necessary to do so by law, through a law, and if the Government can do so directly through some decree or ministerial order, it would have done so. That is how it responds that there is no one from the Government, that the Government has little interest in this issue, and that is why there may be no one. But what is drawing my attention is that there is no Minister of the Interior, because although it is true that he has not resigned, it has already happened here today, but it is going to happen more as the spokespersons come out, and it is that things are going to be said very disrespectful from my point of view for the current State Security Forces and Bodies, not those of Francoism, but the present ones. Or does anyone think they're going to miss the chance to talk about Operation Icarus, for example, or the other operation that happened in Catalonia? Or does anyone believe, as has already happened to Bildu's spokesman, that there will be no talk of the situation of prisoners? But they think we've fallen off a guindo? Here you will take advantage to question the current State Security Forces and Bodies, from the transition to today, and you are contributing to this, and what is unforgivable is that the Minister of the Interior is not here so that, when these barbarities are said, instead of the spokesmen of the groups, the Minister, as the police officer, comes out here to stand on the wall and say four things here. But we can't expect that, let alone this minister. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u281	Thank you, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Gil. Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran i Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u282	It seems that Mr. García Adanero has read me the notes. Jokes aside, it's a delicate matter, because certainly when you read the stories of torture you tremble, and you come to think that whoever does that is someone completely dehumanized. But, as mentioned earlier, equally brutal are the reports of torture before 1978, as the GNP suggests, which later. In other words, the techniques of the bag, of the bar, of the blows without leaving any mark, etc., etc., were practiced during the Francoism by these execrable people, who today want to withdraw the decorations, and were practiced afterwards; they are worth as an example if not the testimonies of the Catalan independenceists arrested in 1992 by Judge Garzón, whose accounts of torture could have been given exactly the same in Franco's time. By the way, the European Court of Human Rights gave the complainants the right because the Spanish State did not investigate these tortures sufficiently. In the Spanish State, torture has continued after Franco, because torture has been used as a weapon of war, because there was no cleansing of the police forces, and because those responsible for stopping torture as a weapon of war have on many occasions been accomplices. They have been judges, such as now Minister Marlaska, who has been a part of up to five times the Strasbourg Court for failing to sufficiently investigate these tortures. And they have been policemen, who have then also been decorated and have also been promoted, like Mr. De los Cobos, who was investigated by a case of torture that ended with convictions of other agents of the Civil Guard. Paradoxes of history. Those who do not appear to us today as archenemies have been united in covering up torture as a weapon of dirty war. I conclude, President. Today one can take an important step towards the restoration of anti-fascist memory and the next step, the coherent one, which would certainly count on the support of the victims of each and every one of the tortures during the Francoism, would be to denounce and investigate the complaints of torture that have been given today and are being given in the Spanish State, because the function of historical memory is not to repeat atrocities. The most consistent thing, therefore, is that the practice of torture in the Spanish State should be eradicated once and for all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u283	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u284	Thank you very much, President. Fernando Bárcenas collects in his work Learning from pain after Auschwitz important reflections of German thinkers on the meaning of oblivion and memory, in relation to dark passages and times, such as that of Nazism in Germany. Hans Küng, the German theologian, points out that in the face of a gloomy past every people, without exception, prefers the art of forgetting that of remembering. But this forgetfulness of the past does not cease to be another manifestation of the power of that gloomy past over the present, facilitating conditions for, if necessary, reincarnation in the future. For this reason, the bet on memory, in the face of oblivion, seeks to remember, so as not to repeat, a tragic past. The bet on memory is, in short and above all, an ethical responsibility that the dead demand from the living, so that we can integrate within our consciousness their own lasting footprint, in the form of an ethics. However, Hans Küng also continues to point out to us, through the work he quoted, that the purpose of memory cannot be instrumentalized as a means of creating identity, for the interests of party or state ideology, but rather in attention to the ethical differentiation between humanity and inhumanity, and the ethical differentiation between good and evil, in order to achieve a critical relationship with history itself, which will enable us to achieve a deeper moral awareness and greater human sensitivity, and which will encourage us not to repeat the mistakes of the past; errors that can undoubtedly be repeated if we do not erect strong moral, legal and political dikes on the value and respect for the different and the different. Perhaps in this society that we live in has not yet reached this point of finding a definitive and shared soil on memory, as learning from that differentiation of humanity and inhumanity, good and evil, and as a profound reconciliation; although it is also true that, slowly and in an attempt, the cloak of silence and forgetfulness is rising on our tragic past. A first legal milestone was the same Constitution of 78, when it advocates freedom, justice, pluralism and democratic coexistence as superior values of its legal system, among others, by establishing itself as a social and democratic State governed by law. It was followed by various measures and rights, which were recognized until the adoption of Law 52/07, known as the Historical Memory Act, which our parliamentary group supported, and which is the time to update its content and ensure that its implementation is not as porous as it has been. This updating of content will have the opportunity to discuss it in connection with the procedure for the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, presented in January in this House, on historical and democratic memory, and to which the content of the initiative is undoubtedly to be added, since, in this, although not formally, but materially, self-amendments are announced to that other initiative of updating the Historical Memory Act, which is still - and I will say in a cordial way - a picturesque parliamentary method, because it is proposed, by two parliamentary groups, to urge the Government - although surely what is intended is something else - to adopt a series of measures affecting a legislative initiative presented by one of them, and still pending processing; this is not going to happen, and not just for a reason of parliamentary law logic, but also for a political logic. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in this context that we will now give our support to the initiative contained in the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist and Podemos parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u285	Thank you, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u286	Thank you, Madam President. Billy the Child, yes, but not only; a Congressional pronouncement, yes, but late and insufficient. The BNG historically abandoned not only the recovery of the historical memory and dignity of the victims of Francoism, but also the claim of justice and reparation, and in particular the end of impunity maintained so far with regard to the crimes of the dictatorship. Forty-five years after the dictator's death is an outstanding debt, and it is perhaps because this constitutional system, this 78-year regime, is the result of the pact staged as a Transition with the last dictators. There was no break, and we have been paying for it for forty-five years with a low democratic quality, with courts that condemn for exercising freedom of expression, with political prisoners or with the persistence of brutal acts of Francoism that have never been reviewed. A few days ago we remembered Alexandre Bóveda, nationalist and republican leader, leader, with Castelao, of the Galeguist Party, shot after being sentenced to death in a military trial summarily by the fascists who still, shamefully, has not been annulled. That is why this GNP knows little about us. We do not understand that the parties of the Government, instead of legislating and acting, are limited to a debate that has already taken place and on which there is a broad social consensus. We shall vote in favour, of course, but we hope, in addition to gestures like this, for decisive action in favour of truth, justice, memory and democracy for our peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u287	Thank you, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u288	I confess that it was not very clear whether to intervene at this point or not, and I am glad that I asked for it, because I would be boiling my blood after the words of the Lord of Citizens if I had not done so. Do any of you have any family members who have suffered a bombardment or anything that has happened to them? Yes, my father, Lord of Citizens, was 23 years old, he was arrested by Billy the Child and tortured him. He was active in the PCE, which was later called the PTE. [[I'm]] And neither you nor Mr de VOX can say that this is bothering the Spaniards. Isn't my father Spanish? Is he less Spanish than you? [[Applauds]] He is so Spanish that he fought for the freedom of Spain and bled it. And you now go all the way around and all the pirouettes saying that if we don't go back a century, if we don't go back a century and a half, if what happened in another country... The thing is very simple: we live in democracy, a democracy only honors democrats and, therefore, a democratic government has to pay that debt and ensure that those who tortured democrats are not honoured; as simple as that. We must vote yes or we must vote no; it is an extraordinarily simple thing. When I say that I didn't know before whether to intervene is because it seems to me to be such a serious thing as not to bring it as a PNL. I'd like a lot more, gentlemen of the government, to get up and read it at the BOE. It's a lot easier. If you took Franco by decree and we applauded him! Well, do the same. Most already exist, do so; do not bring us a GNP to urge your own Government or recommend what needs to be done. Do it, most of them already exist; do it by decree tomorrow; they're running late. It was on the program, a law was prepared in May, you took out Franco as well, the Socialist Party had been ruling for two years, and before a few decades. We're late, it's okay, it's not about what we go back, it's about what we leave to those who come forward. Of course we are going to vote in favour of a GNP! But we would be much happier to see it tomorrow in the State Official Gazette, and that can be done tomorrow, much better than the day before tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u289	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Finally, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u290	Thank you, President. The progressive government is putting an end to an unfair situation by taking out a medal for a dead torturer, and it seems to me good, but why does this progressive government not also listen to Amnesty International, the UN working group against arbitrary arrests and so many others who are calling for an end to more unjust situations, also arising from the patriotic police of the country you govern? What I think would happen in a normal country, in a full and healthy democracy, as has been said here, is that all this garbage would be in the courts, starting with the 1st of the Cobos. [[fascist]] The parties would ask here today that all the blemish of the state's cloacas be brought out, and perhaps they would also draw medals from dead torturers, but what I am sure would happen in a full and healthy democracy is that freedom would be returned to the Government of the Government of Catalonia, the Parliament of Catalonia, the Jordis, the 23-S detainees, Tamara, Valtonyc, Pablo Hasel, Daniel Gallardo and so many others who are also victims of the patriotic police still active in the country you govern. This is what Spain has become, a country that, in the name of a unity of the homeland that has never existed, has deployed the red carpet to fascism because the enemy was the terrible and evil Catalans. It was also you who sent a very clear message to the State Security Corps and Forces on the day they considered that torture and ill-treatment were not serious enough to end the career of a policeman; thirty-nine pardons granted by the People's Party and the PSOE to agents convicted of torture. And I'm done, President. There will be no independence from the hand of the PSOE, Podemos, their lies, their laundering and their propaganda. Nor will independence seem less independent; there will be independence if we count that we have the opportunity to offer a much better future, counting that it is not going to be easy, but that it is worth too much. This is not a progressive government because a progressive government does not have those political prisoners or exiles. And the debate in Catalonia does not go from the left or the right, it is going to prevent our future from getting bogged down. People deserve to be clear: either loyalty to a few acronyms or loyalty to a country. Released political prisoners and exiles. Visca Catalunya free and greeting for everyone. 1 Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u291	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Nogueras, I would ask you, please, to tell me whether you want to withdraw from the Journal of Sessions a specific reference to a specific person calling it a fascist. [[Pause]] Mrs. Nogueras, don't you take it off?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u292	No, I don't take it back.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u293	We will remove it from the Journal of Sessions. Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u294	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. MPs and MPs of the PSOE and Unidad Podemos, the initiative presented to us today leaves in evidence that the model of Spanish impunity remains in force and the need for a true historical memory law in the Spanish state that puts an end to this impunity. This initiative is late, very late. Billy the Child was decorated in 1977 and more than forty years later has died quietly with his intact decorations. That is, as much as the decorations are now taken away from him, the torturer died with a calm conscience of having served with honors to his homeland and, moreover, having been able to enjoy the economic rewards that we pay among all and that he has paid for many years thanks to this decoration. The true historical memory law is still unreached, and it is a democratic shame that thousands and thousands of people continue to lie in bed while their killers continue to hold honors. It is not in vain that the Spanish State continues to recognize decorations and honours to dictator Francisco Franco and his family, as well as prominent phalangists and military coupsmen, among which are sinister characters and murderers such as Mola, Moscardó, Queipo de Llano, Yagüe, José Antonio Primo de Rivera, Onesimo Redondo, Carrero Blanco or Carmen Polo. And while the Spanish state continues to recognize these fascists with honors, it continues to treat anti-fascist fighters as terrorists. I mean, Spain in this sense... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u295	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u296	In other words, Spain in this sense is closer to Trump than to European countries, because I remind them that in France they honour and recognize their anti-fascist resistance economically. But beyond the fact that they continue to recognize the decorations of the Franco regime to torturers, the big problem is that the 78 regime has continued to decorate people linked to state terrorism, with the patriotic police or with the state cloacas, such as Commissioner Villarejo. Equally worrying is the fact that police officers accused of ill-treatment on the border of Ceuta and Melilla are condemned, or that police officers who, in the cry of 'A for them', beat my people with impunity and savagely, the Catalan population, who were doing a democratic and pacifist exercise of civil disobedience on October 1, 2017. [[Applauds]] And it is shown that the Spanish State, far from decorating the police that comply with human rights, commends an ideological police that nourishes the cloacas of the State rooted in Francoism. Police conduct that is more typical of the Francoist police than of a democratic police continue to be rewarded. If they are genuinely concerned about the existence of torturers with economic honours and rewards, after withdrawing those granted by the Franco regime, withdraw those granted to torturers and abusers by the 78 regime. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u297	Thank you, Mrs. Bassa. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Santamaría Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u298	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Errejon, overcome manicism and stereotypes. He is told by a person whose two grandparents fought on the Republican front, one of whom was imprisoned, retaliated, and my uncles have also been the victims of Francoist repression. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but wonder what has happened in Spain so that one Wednesday in June 2020, and after an exemplary transition, this Parliament questions the legitimacy of the great national pact that gave rise to the transition, because that is what we are really thinking about and what we are talking about, especially after reading and listening to the speeches of your ladies and gentlemen. And I cannot help wondering why some of you are trying to talk about the past when the Spaniards expect us to talk about the present and future of our country. I can understand that you do not want to talk about this police officer because this leads you irreparably to talk about the false minister of the interior, Mr Marlaska, whose resignation or cessation we are still waiting for. I can understand that you don't want to talk about the police at the moment, because it means talking about purges and it leads us irreparably to talk about Mr. Marlaska's sectarianism. To speak of the present is to speak of Marlaska giving instructions to the Civil Guard to minimize the climate against government action and to speak of the present is to speak of the reports that discouraged the concentrations of the 8-M. I understand very well, ladies and gentlemen, that talking about the present is, in the words of a government minister, talking about things that are not superguay, aunt. I can also understand that they do not want to talk about Spain in the future, because this would mean talking about the responsibilities that are already being demanded of them for their poor management at the head of the crisis, which would not be superguay, aunt. Nor would it be to speak of Mr Sánchez's international ridiculousness. And given that you have something to talk about and given your natural desire to question the legitimacy of the institutional building on which we have settled our coexistence the Spaniards, it is up to you to use the language in ancient times and devote this time to a revisionism that, although it could go back to the times of the serpent and the apple, you limit to a very sad part of our history, forgetting that perhaps you should also consider remembering the para-police system of the Czechs, where so many crimes were committed and that you forget to mention. My group will not fall into the temptation of re-editing, ladies and gentlemen, as we have always stood alongside the victims, non-violence and human rights. Note that we can come to understand that populists, philotetras and independenceists question that great pact that was the Transition, but that sanchism joins them is something we cannot understand because it is improper of socialism that helped build constitutional Spain. I understand that reason is called Podemos and its eagerness to bring Spain to the model of true failure they defend. Let me ask the socialist bench: Is the re-editionist socialism that they now defend better than the socialism that was defended by President González, the interior ministers Barrionuevo, Corcuera, Asunción, Belloch, Alonso or Rubalcaba? Are they wrong and correct in proposing the withdrawal of titles and decorations? Out of curiosity, will Calvo Sotelo's, deputy of this House killed in a police van on nearby Serrano Street? Will they remove the decoration given to Ramón and Cajal, or the one that was recognized to the descendants of Juan de la Cierva, or the posthumous title given to Ramiro de Maeztu, or the three decorations given by the Government to Mr Fernández Ordóñez, who ended up being a great socialist minister? Will they explain this to us during the processing of the necessary rules to implement what they propose? Ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards decided to leave that stage behind and open a new stage of reconciliation which Adolfo Suárez masterfully led. We think that those who question the legitimacy of our system forget the generosity on which it was built, forget the necessary and essential amnesty of political prisoners decreed by Adolfo Suárez in 1976, when he did what he had to do, despite not being easy. [[Applauds]] And you also forget the Amnesty Law of 1977, of which you never say, lords of Bildu, which liberated 1232 Etras, 776 of which were again incorporated into the armed struggle, including the Etras condemned by the attack on the street of Correos, where thirteen people died; Francisco Múgica Garmendia, who would then murder thirty-seven people; Santi Potros, author of the killing of Hypercor, and the butcher of Mondragon, responsible for the death of seventeen people. Those who question the legitimacy of the Transition forget the generosity of companions like Teresa Jiménez-Becerril or like Jaime Mateu, who endured and endure the greatest of sacrifices, such as the loss of a family member, and they have never questioned the legitimacy of the constitutional regime. [[applause]] Gentlemen of the PSOE, allow me to end by remembering very briefly Don Miguel de Unamuno, who believed in the Republic, of which very soon he felt alien by degenerating this into the revolutionary project in which he became. Don Miguel de Unamuno, who supported the military coup and soon felt alien, when he became the exclusive dictatorship in which half of Spain did not fit. Don Miguel de Unamuno represents that great majority of Spaniards who believe in freedom, democracy and the social and democratic rule of law that is Spain today and for which we are betting, despite the constitutional reform announced this morning by the Minister of Justice. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u299	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. Mr Sicilia, for the sole purpose of knowing whether or not you accept any amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u300	Yes, Madam President, just to inform you that we will accept the Citizens' amendment to point 3. Since points 3 and 4 proposed by Citizens are drafted in a single amendment, we are working on a transactional that only includes what they accept United We can and this group, only point 3 of the Citizens amendment. We shall now bring that compromise amendment to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u301	Thank you very much, Mr Sicily. We need the text by this afternoon. - THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE PROTECTION OF AUTONOMOUS WORKERS AT THE REASON OF THE CRISIS OF COVID-19. [[File number 162/000222]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u302	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Republican Parliamentary Group on the protection of self-employed workers following the crisis of the COVID-19. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u303	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The spokesman for the Socialist Group is sure to be armed with many arguments to refute the following statement: the autonomous are the pariahs of the Spanish economic system, the cannon meat of crises, when with little support they could be the light cavalry of recovery. Similar arguments will be raised by the PP spokesman referring to his years of government, and anyone who was not informed could, in the light of the amendments they put forward in this GNP, believe that they had done something for the self-government when they ruled. There is a danger, ladies and gentlemen: in the face of the absolute zero of the PP, the 'need to improve' of the PSOE could lead us to be almost optimistic, but it is necessary not to turn our backs on reality. Much remains to be done on the road to equalization of rights. [[The Lord]] The consensus predicts that 20% - one in five - of those who lowered the blind during the COVID will no longer be able to lift it if we do not seek remedy urgently. The list of grievances is long and this GNP wants only to show and propose to the House, to us, a deadline to embark on the path to the resolution of grievances. Surely, start working by applying more surgical precision, more sectorized. Two non-minor and negligible examples linked to the arbitrariness of much of the measures taken. As you know, in order for self-employed workers to have access to approved aid, they have to certify, for full months, the 75% reduction in their income; 75%, ladies and gentlemen, I ask them to exercise empathy. Someone who billed 1900 must stay below 500 to get access. Well, some even that, the summer self-employed, active between April and October. It is estimated that some 20,000 families have been left out. Of course, in mid-May they didn't bill. To have asked for death. Commercial agents are another case. In March, commissions were placed on their sales from previous months; obviously, they were left out. These are just two examples within a sector which, despite the friendly tone adopted and the good intention - to be acknowledged - of the Government with regard to SMEs and self-employed workers, has been unprotected during the management of this crisis. In short, we propose that a good list of grievances be reviewed with this GNP. We want the quota of self-employed people to be suspended, not the moratorium, and we denounce it from the very beginning. Because no one is hiding that when the present state of alarm moratorium is over - let's hope - on the return of June, the bills will not return for the sake of salutation to recover at BOE's stroke. Measures must be sustained as long as the consequences of the impact of the health crisis last. We must not be afraid to discuss these measures if, at the same time, until this noon - if I am not mistaken - we have discussed whether to extend the conditions of the ERTE until December. Why not with the self-employed! Paying rents for commercial premises would require the little time I have left. The one-year interest-free moratorium on VAT settlement in the second and third quarters for all affected groups is a no-minor step. It is also an opportunity to report the collection accumulated a few days ago by the Ministry of Finance of all outstanding liquidations. If it is a question of ensuring the equity of the productive system and not further straining the treasury of the most affected groups, with actions like this we are going in the opposite direction. It also deserves a separate chapter on effective access to credit, ICO credits which, in many cases, are not reaching the productive fabric. When you talk to self-employed and small business people, it seems that ICOs are an instrument at the service of banking institutions. These self-employed workers and SMEs tell you that by applying for an ICO they have endorsed insurance, extended other credits or placed absolutely abusive interests on them, when they have not been exchanged for freezes of other credit instruments. Without going any further, a few days ago a small businesswoman from Osona explained to me how her bank, a well-known Alicanten entity, had required her to personally endorse one hundred percent of the capital - yes, one hundred percent - if she wanted an ICO. We have e-mails at the Government's disposal. So who ends up benefiting from ICO credits? This lady was told that if she didn't endorse everything, they wouldn't even ask for credit. Here's something that doesn't work. Finally, and not the last, but perhaps the first in importance of the list of grievances, the eternal claim of this Republican group and others in the House, that an integral reform of the RETA and the establishment of a contribution for real income must be addressed immediately. This is the only way to equalize the rights of self-employed workers. You see, ladies and gentlemen, that this context has once again highlighted the lack of protection suffered by the foundations of the productive fabric. I refuse to talk more about blinds because I am realizing lately that those who use the most image of blinds are usually the ones who have never raised one. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u304	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Muñoz Vidal is speaking first of all by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u305	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. One more week I begin my intervention with a reminder to the victims of this pandemic and a loving embrace to their relatives and close friends. Yesterday we met a study published by the prestigious journal Nature, which said that confinement has saved millions of lives in Europe and about 450 000 in Spain, in our country. It's data that really puts the hen's skin, because behind every figure there are lost lives and thousands of dramas. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving from the peak of the health crisis to the economic crisis, millions of Spaniards are immersed in an ERT without knowing whether they will be able to return to their jobs, millions of self-employed people have seen their incomes reduced to a minimum and some have stayed on the road and thousands of SMEs look to the future with uncertainty. What we have in 2020 is the worst unemployment data since the 2008 crisis, the drop in the country's wealth in the first quarter has been historic and the forecasts of the Bank of Spain are becoming more and more black. In Citizens we set ourselves from the first moment on a double objective: to save lives and save jobs. For many weeks we have been fighting - and alone, I have to say - for the government's economic shock plan against the coronavirus to include the autonomous as well. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the constructive opposition we have made since my group, we have managed to push together measures to protect employees, temporary workers, the unemployed, families, SMEs, domestic workers, groups at risk of exclusion and those who have to face a mortgage. But what happened to the self-employed? The government went from obviating them to saying that they would all be covered, although in reality, hopefully, only 30% could benefit from their support measures, assuming they were able to cross in time and form the bureaucratic maraña that had been created. They waited to collect the March quota for them, hours later, to announce a supposed moratorium that would arrive in May, before the state of alarm ended, and, finally, they told them that they could postpone some payments for the modest price of 0.5% interest. We had to ask the President of the Government by letter, we begged him on personal telephone calls and also from this rostrum on several occasions: Spain could not abandon the autonomous to their fate. If in Madrid and Andalusia, where Citizens co-governed, we managed to improve the quotas of the autonomous and approve extraordinary aid, why not the government from the beginning? Finally, Citizens, negotiating with the Government, obtained the extraordinary benefit to the self-employed, the suspension of quarterly liquidations, four months of tax deferrals without interest and more lines of credit; protective measures that, if not sufficient, have made the life of the self-employed a little easier. Perhaps other parties that protest so much from the corner of the angry and the aggrieved may wonder what they have done for the self-employed, for the workers and for the SMEs during this crisis. Perhaps the parliamentary group that has presented this GNP, Esquerra Republicana - which is not in its place right now - may wonder what its party has done for the Catalan autonomous. I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen: while Citizens put as a condition to support the extension that was untied by the extraordinary provision of autonomous alarm status, Republican Left negotiated only one table, yes, the table, that table that embarrasses us. Mr. Capdevila, as Mr. Rufián is not here, I say to you: Mr. Rufián says that flags neither heal nor feed. You know what? That the tables, his table of shame, doesn't feed anyone either. Welcome, however, to the causes that improve the lives of the Spaniards. When working for the common good, as these proposed measures do, there is no one left. That is true, we have tabled a number of amendments to your proposals, such as extending the special allowance for self-employed persons until 30 September and beyond for certain activities particularly affected by COVID, because, if we are going to do this for workers on behalf of others with ERTE, it would be consistent with doing so with self-employed persons as well. We also propose in our amendments the flat rate for self-employed persons who have received the special benefit, so that when they resume business they can pay EUR 60 per month and not the usual fee. This, ladies and gentlemen, is our way of understanding politics: making politics useful and improving people's lives. We are very proud of how we have acted and everything we have achieved during this crisis, and so we intend to continue. Accept our amendments, because they are good for all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u306	Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u307	Thank you, Mr. President. As for the non-legislative proposal that we are debating, I wanted to address the group that is presenting it first, but I see that it is not. [[The Lord]] There's a little representation, sorry. First of all, I would like to acknowledge Catalan independence's concern, with nuances, for what they call the Spanish State and for the Spanish autonomous. It is a great news that Catalan independence supports the autonomous of this great nation and that the proposed measures are homogeneous for all affected, regardless of the place of Spain where they develop their economic activity. It is a great step for your voters to realize that we must go hand in hand and for the Spanish citizens to see that Spanish parliamentarianism joins efforts to ask the Spanish Government to act with firmness and determination to help our productive fabric. But let me ask you a question: why do you continue to support this Government that does not respond to your requests? Do they support them, for partisan purposes, for the pardons of members of their formation, or perhaps for the abandonment of the workers of the industry in their region? I will tell you what I see from your parliamentary group: much criticism of the government, but more support for it. That, frankly, is called being incoherent. Ladies and gentlemen, today I rise to this rostrum after three months of an unprecedented and unknown situation for the history of Spain. I still remember what I said on that occasion, because it makes all sense today. He told them, in the words of Sophocles, that a State in which the insolence and the freedom to do everything remain unpunished, ends up sinking into the abyss, and the reality of the Government you support is that they are insolent, not resigning for their unfounded decisions and for their meridian lack of responsibility. They also believe that they have the freedom to do everything by ceasing honourable public servants and receiving people whose entry into the European Union has been banned. Its ministers have managed to be very incompetent, with innumerable public corrections, not to mention changes in criteria. Thus things, the only possible purpose for this story is that we intend to avoid, that they drag Spain into the abyss. During this time, the State has been taxing on the fulfilment of the obligations of citizens - extreme measures of confinement, imposition of a cessation of economic activity, obligation to pay social security contributions in full isolation - and has also ruled out a real deferral of tax collection, of course, before its criterion was changed for the umpteenth time. The social shield designed by the Executive looks more like a scorching to end the savings of families, self-employed and SMEs, but once their error becomes evidence, they say they're going to return the contributions to self-employed. Millions of jobs are at risk and, instead of investing in training and employment policies, the Executive is dedicated to irrigating certain media with billions of euros, and the ERTEs without getting there. As for the measures proposed by the Republican Group in its non-legislative proposal, on the first four petitions, we consider them to be correct measures, albeit less ambitious than the Spanish deserve, but we are ready to collaborate, complement and support their initiative to make them tools for the growth of the economic reality of the Spaniards. To this end, we have tabled an amendment which contributes to improvements that would bring greater benefit. In addition to the exemption proposed by you, we bet to approve a flat rate for all self-employed until January 2021 from the end of the state of alarm. With regard to rental of commercial premises, we would support this moratorium, reforming Royal Decree 15/2020, to reduce the restrictions imposed on self-employed persons to benefit from it. We want to extend the moratorium on payment of VAT to SMEs operating under different legal forms and which are basically made up of self-employed people who have generated their own jobs. We want to boost, of course, the work of the ICO in the credit injection, to relieve the burden of Spanish self-employed and SMEs with better financial conditions and to allow the rescue of pension plans without tax penalty, so that the whole of this rescue can be used by the saver. With regard to the comprehensive reform of the RETA, we consider it to be an inoperative measure for three reasons. Firstly, because it would oblige natural persons covered by simplified and objective direct estimation tax systems to carry more complex accounting than currently required by tax and commercial rules. Secondly, because it would be an inappropriate criterion, since performance can be reduced in the inter-monthly period by numerous variants. And, thirdly, because those who did not have benefits would be exempt from contributions. In short, this proposal involves, as the case may be, increasing administrative complexity or interference with the freedom and criterion of disposal and investment of capital by the self-employed. In short, the defence of workers, especially the self-employed, has been a priority for our parliamentary group, and proof of this is the hundreds of initiatives we have put forward in this House, the first on 18 March 2020, 20 days before yours. Therefore, any reasonable measures that entail greater protection for them will be welcome on our part. In this is the spirit of agreement that Spain needs, a spirit that has shined through its absence, as witnessed by the headlines and headlines of past days. Let us not forget that we are all here to represent the Spaniards, and we demonstrate it with our initiatives day by day, even if the government ignores them or picks them up late. I was going to address Mr. Rufián, but I'm going to address you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u308	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u309	You will not see me carrying stickers from outside you, but from earning the salary and working for the Spaniards. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u310	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ortiz Galván has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u311	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to send a message of hope and confidence to the self-employed. We know how bad they've been and how bad they've been. The Spanish autonomous suffer the consequences of two viruses, that of the COVID-19 and that of the government of Pedro Sánchez. To make it worse is impossible, but the autonomous know that they are not alone, that the People's Party is with them and that the proposals we have put forward sooner than later will be government measures that we will put in place under the leadership of Pablo Casado, so that more and more autonomous people will lift the blinds of their businesses daily and - most importantly - do so with strength and illusion. And we ask one favor, one favor, from the Socialist and Podemos government. Don't laugh at the self-employed any more, please. It is you who have left more than eight hundred thousand self-employed without any kind of aid, by establishing as a requirement for access to aid which has lost 75% of the income, that is, if an self-employed person has lost 50% of the income he has no help. Let's empathize. Let's get into the situation of the self-employed. How would your end of the month have been with half the income? That is how many autonomous people are in our country or much worse. It is you, the Socialist and Podemos government, who have charged the March quota to the self-employed and then return it. Wouldn't it have been easier not to charge it? The March quota will be refunded on 15 May and the April quota will be refunded on 15 June. Very fast to collect, but very slow to return money that is of the self-employed and that where it has to be is in their current accounts so that they can face the fixed expenses of their businesses and their families. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, self-employed people not only serve to work. They have homes and families to support and they need all our support and, above all, all our respect. It is you, the Socialist and Podemos governments, who have announced to the cane and dish some aid for the rental of commercial premises that have reached only 2%, because they had traps, like everything this government does. The requirement is the low census in the Treasury, but if they are discharged, how do they have access to aid for the cessation of activity? It is you who have taken more than three months to recognise the aid; on the other hand, many self-employed people are receiving communications from the mutuals to prove the drop in income of more than 75% to claim the aid, self-employed people who are also helping their workers, because many have not yet entered the ERTE. And it is you who have had the self-employed and many workers stuck to a computer on Sunday night to read the BOE, while playing who was stronger, whether PSOE or Podemos, in Moncloa. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the sad reality that the self-employed are going through because of your disastrous management, to which we must unite the climate of mistrust that exists in our country and which is not new. We've seen the signals since before the alarm state. Over the first three months of the year, 126 500 salaried jobs have been lost and the number of self-employed has fallen by 41 000. But last year, in 2019, when there was no coronavirus, but yes a socialist government, the self-employed had reduced for the first time since there were records the number of employees in charge and also lowered the number of self-employed in 2019. Faced with what's coming, you're generating less and less confidence, and that translates into less investment and less entrepreneurship. We have the worst government at the worst time. Since the government of Sánchez there is more unemployment, there is more poverty, less transparency, less businesses, less self-reliant, less freedom and more chryspation, which is what you like so much. Nor do your covenants with Bildu help much. It doesn't help much that you choose to talk about reforms to Otegi before the opposition leader, Pablo Casado. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Government, gentlemen of the Podemos Government, the Spaniards, the self-employed do not want aid. Let's see if you know, ladies and gentlemen. They don't want help, they want to work, they want to earn their salary with dignity to be free, and this is what bothers you. The left has always wanted a subsidized society so that people depend on you. We, the other way around. There is no more antisocial policy than ruining a country, and that is why we have tabled amendments to this GNP, with the aim of stimulating the economy. We support, of course, the retroactive nature of the suspension of the autonomous quota. We have always defended it: zero income, zero quota. We also propose the implementation of an aid plan for the payment of rent of commercial premises and not mere moratoriums that have not served anything. We also call for a 25 billion euro state guarantee line through the ICO with microcredits with guarantees of up to 95%. And a proposal that would help the self-employed a lot is a monthly flat fee of 100 euros for all those who have ceased their activity and are reopening.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u312	Mr. Ortiz, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u313	I'm finishing up, Madam President. Finally, something that is very necessary: to agree within one year and within the framework of the dialogue with social entities the reforms of the RETA. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, put the ideology of the left aside and let us support the autonomous. To support the self-employed is to support job creation, which is ultimately to support our country, Spain. Citizens have lost an opportunity to prolong the state of alarm by placing the autonomous as a condition; they have wasted it. There it has been seen whether for Citizens the priority were the autonomous. I finish as I started, sending a message of hope and illusion to the autonomous. In 2012 we did it together with them and thanks to the efforts of Spanish society. We got Spain out of a big crisis. We have to do it again. From the People's Party we make ourselves available to the self-employed and to the service of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u314	Thank you, Mr. Ortiz. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u315	Good afternoon. Gentlemen, this million families who are going to receive the minimum living income - let them know - the People's Party calls them subsidized. They just said it. [[Applauds]] Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Look, today is a day of pride for all, because we have approved, as Minister Carcedo said, the first step, an important step in the fight against inequality. The Socialist Group has tabled a compromise amendment which we are negotiating and which we believe enriches the initiative put forward by the Republican Left Group, because it gives it a comprehensive treatment, taking as a framework, that is, the negotiation in the social dialogue. We believe that it is a time to build collectively, and there unity, as the president said this morning, is basic, the image of Spain is basic. But for that, for us to give a good image here and out, unity is very important and saying falsehoods does not help. I insist, we have tabled an amendment that we have made with an intention, with a desire that it be comprehensive, to study COVID and post-COVID, that is to say, to tell us exactly what situation we are in and how it is affecting the working people who are self-employed. We hope that this transaction will be agreed unanimously, because it is the best news that the autonomous will have; yes, gentlemen of the PP, that it will be agreed unanimously. The Socialist Group has sought, in its proposal for an amendment, coincidences rather than dissent, because that is what contributes to a collective project. We agree, Mr Capdevila, that the self-employed sector has a very important weight in our country, 15% of national GDP, 3.2 million members and 17% of total employees. It is an economic tractor that because of its heterogeneity requires a specific and therefore integral treatment, and in this heterogeneity we must talk about social graduates, lawyers, mutualists who are in the mutual alternative, carpenters, autonomous street vendors, fairs, etc. We agree that it is one of the most affected sectors. Evidently, the decree-laws adopted by this Government, huge decree-laws, were aimed at alleviating the difficult situation of this group. We also agree on the need to give them an exceptional response to an exceptional situation. For this Government, from minute one, the first was to protect health and, secondly, productive activity, especially as regards self-employment. Never before has it been done with such speed and speed; in less than a month, the greatest deployment of measures - that can't be denied - and in one month there have been a million self-employed workers with extraordinary benefit. The measures taken have been in relation to this group as never before. They can tell me that they are, of course, as good as anything in life; in fact, the Government has been taking protective measures as contingencies arose that found collectives unprotected. Therefore, let us not be trembling and look at those measures that the Government has taken, which have not been one and, of course, have been sterile. I am going to give you a data - I say this to the spokesman for Citizens, who says that the government has ignored the self-employed -: the first government of the European Union that gave greater protection to the self-employed was the Government of Spain and, if not, check the Eurostat data. We cannot accept that there are any grievances regarding the reform of the RETA, because it was the government of Pedro Sánchez that a year ago, being Magdalena Valerio Minister of Social Security, arrived at one of the first major agreements in self-government, long before the People's Party. And I remind you, because there are times when we don't remember, that it is important for the self-employed to contribute to real income. It is true that this was one of the proposals made by the Government a year ago and that there were difficulties, it was very difficult to reach that agreement, the first agreement of self-employed persons, which meant, I would like to remind you, that the cessation of activity would increase from twelve to twenty-four months; that the accident benefit would be charged from day number one of the leave; that they would have access to continuing training and that they would be exempt from paying the self-employed person's allowance from the second month in the case of IT. Look, social dialogue is important, as President Pedro Sánchez said this morning, but I think it is right that we should make a account of all the real decrees adopted - I am finishing, President - so far: the postponement of taxes for SMEs and self-employed people, in order to avoid the tensions of treasury; the extraordinary benefit for cessation of activity, which, as I have said, is the greatest protection of the European Union. In relation to this, gentlemen of the PP, I think you are misadvising them. They didn't have to give themselves a census. You have not read it well; you did not have to give yourself a census, moreover, are covered precisely those who had not even quoted. Take a look at it again. There have also been measures to provide housing aid, which, of course, have been extended to premises; aid for tax debts, for moratoriums on social contributions. I mean, that's a lot of measures. There has never been such a large deployment by a Government for a collective like this. They are improveable, yes, but they have to recognize that they are many measures. And now what the Socialist Party is proposing is: let's sit down...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u316	Mrs. Perea, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u317	... at the dialogue table - I conclude - let us talk, study, value and follow up on all these measures to reach agreements. We have tried to find coincidences in the compromise amendment, and there are more coincidences than dissents. We may differ in form, gentlemen of Esquerra, but magic is reaching agreements. That is the magic of politics debate. Finally, and I finish...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u318	Yes, Mrs. Perea, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u319	As the President of the Government said, unity is better for no one to stay behind. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u320	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u321	President, it was going to be brief and I hope to be brief, although I am going to extend this speech a little bit, because I cannot help but acknowledge that I have not been indifferent to the statement made by the representative of the People's Party. Moreover, while I was talking, I remembered Mark Twain a lot, a phrase that alludes to the value of silence and its meaning. I don't tend to be offensive for free and I'm not going to be offensive now, so I'm not going to say the full sentence, but anyone can look for it on Wikipedia. Start with something like, "It's better to be quiet and look..." That's where I end up. He has told us about the possibility of agreements by the Socialist Party government with Arnaldo Otegi. No, look, it's much simpler. We do not tell the Socialist Party with whom it has to agree or with whom it has to talk to to agree; they will decide it, they have autonomy to do so, obviously. It does seem obvious that social policies with you are difficult. It seems difficult to do something with you, who are committed to reproducing the exit recipes from the crisis that led us to the situation experienced after 2008. But I will tell you more, and in order for you to have no doubt about what I told you about Mark Twain, I make it even easier: to prevent a right-wing government, which displays the credentials that you are exhibiting from this rostrum state of alarm after state of alarm, you don't need to talk to us, we do it for free. We, in order to evict the right and the extreme right - we have already said it in the investiture; do not brag about any merit for this which may seem like a first - we do it for free. On the subject, I will tell you that we are going to support the non-law proposal of the Republican Left of Catalonia, because we believe that both the five points that were initially included were relevant and those that are included in the amendment, because, in the end, we are addressing an issue that should be very concerned, not so much for the consideration that one or the other may have of the autonomous as a collective within the labour market, that it does not have to be, at any time - and I make it clear that no one has doubts - negative, but because we are talking about a very large group, with more than 3.2 million people, and because we are talking about a reality that is very different; and yet the measures that have been taken so far by this government are very uniform. Only in this way is it understood that, for example, 75% of losses are determined to be those that allow access to certain bonuses, when everyone understands that for self-employed people maintaining the business with a certain volume of losses can be possible, but not for all. I do not even want to talk about the false autonomous, the riders, which would also be included in all these issues. In short - and I conclude - I said that these measures are insufficient. We're talking about a very large group and it's normal for them to be angry. I say this with respect, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it is normal that you are angry, that you have been talking for decades about entrepreneurship, self-entrepreneurship, as the perfect recipe for a future. And if all those people who have decided to make self-entrepreneurship a reality through their vocation, or not vocation, but through their necessary attachment to the collective of self-employed, do so and find themselves abandoned, it is normal that they are angry. I end with an issue that Mr Capdevila has pointed out, which I think is very relevant, and it is one that has to do with the role of banks. The banks would have to be facilitators of ICO credits, which, if I am not mistaken, 80% would be guaranteed by the state's endorsement and 20% by the banks themselves; of those which, I remember, took EUR 60.6 billion out of everyone's pocket, and which they do not intend to recover and which, moreover, no one seems to be going to ask them to return. For those same banks, they seem to be saying that they do not want to lend that 20% endorsement, because they consider that the Spanish state is not reliable. That, I have been able to hear, and surely you will be as right as the mails that Mr Capdevila displayed, because, yesterday, a radio of a national character echoed this and provided data. Remedy this kind of barbarity, because that only gives reason to those - whom we will not stop doing, even if this data did not exist - who say that a public bank is necessary, because we do not trust private banking.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u322	Thank you, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u323	Good afternoon, again, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, a Member who preceded me in the use of the floor has drawn attention to the fact that independenceists - referring to Catalans, but also referring to me as a Basque independenceist - sympathize with elements of social progress. Today, we have seen two clear elements: on the one hand, minimum living income and, now, also measures relating to the defence of the self-employed. It is clear that social consciousness has to do with political consciousness and not exactly with prejudices that can be had with different political ideologies. Mr Capdevila, we share the diagnosis made in the non-legislative proposal that you and your political group are presenting, on the one hand, because the broad sector of self-employed workers needs new regulation and, on the other hand, because in the times ahead they are not receiving adequate attention. And not only because self-employed people are an essential mode of work for the economy and employment, but also because their heterogeneity, their diversity, has allowed them to have been vamped by legal relationships that have more to do with imaginative formulas for the exploitation of people who do not want to be recognized in the context of an employment relationship. But what the purpose of the GNP as such, of what we are talking about, is whether or not the measures that have been adopted as a result of COVID-19, which seek to alleviate the social and economic consequences of this pandemic, are adequate, whether or not they have adapted to the characters of the autonomous. The answer is easy: no; they have not, of course. That is why we understand a GNP such as that which has been presented and also some other measures. But maybe it's a little short, it's a little short. Thus, in our view, it would be appropriate to adapt the rules and amounts of contributions to the capacity of self-employed people to generate income. Moratoriums, postponements or even the possibility of changing the contribution group should be taken into account for this purpose. It goes without saying that, just as happens and will happen with specific sectors, the possibility of extending the duration of the extraordinary termination benefit also for self-employed workers and to the extent of the actual impact of this activity must be considered. In this sense, there seems to be a widespread complaint from the sector for the month of March as they have been computed all month and it has not been taken into account that 75% of the revenue reduction is to be made only in fifteen days and not in the whole month. We also consider it necessary to consider access to such aid and general conditions for self-employed persons whose economic activity is seasonal in nature, who should have been included in the activity now and who have not been able to do so because they have been very badly affected. If there has been a great forgotten in all these measures of the COVID has also been that of the rents of the business premises by the autonomous ones, to which, with all respect, I believe that the Royal Decree-Law 11/2020 has not taken into account, nor has there possibly been an adequate way for them to access the credits ICO or any other financial entity - Elkargi in Euskadi -, access that has not been made available to them or not made much easier to them. So I could continue with a succession of points, but the truth is that I am aware that you have also been negotiating a transactional with other political groups and, after all, as Mrs Perea said, in this it is unity, that is, support on the part of everyone. I support that request and, therefore - and in the confidence that this transaction will unify, combine many criteria, many different opinions - I now announce my group's support for its non-legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u324	Thank you, Mr. Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u325	Thank you, Madam President. Self-employed people and SMEs were already in a difficult situation before the COVID-19 crisis, but it is true that it has been a real test of fire for small business, which sustains much of the economy and is particularly important in the case of Galicia. For this reason, the BNG has been advocating measures to support the self-employed beyond those applied and especially the cancellation of quotas. In any case, we believe that there is a need for a far-reaching reform that facilitates the incorporation of new self-governments and allows for the maintenance of existing ones. That is why we support this Republican Left GNP, with which we agree on important points: that a comprehensive reform of the RETA be considered a priority in order to establish a system of contribution for real income and the immediate and retroactive approval at the beginning of the state of alarm of the suspension of the quota of autonomous, with a duration that goes beyond the situation of the state of alarm and as long as the economic impact of the health crisis lasts. I'm done. From the outset, the BNG considered that the aid estimated by the central government to the self-employed was insufficient, but more serious is that it did not exist. In the case of Galicia, unlike other autonomous communities, there was no additional aid because the Xunta, in the hands of the People's Party, did not consider it necessary. We do believe that it was absolutely necessary and we also believe that we are still in time to do more to save the self-employed from a crisis that, if not, can be really serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u326	Thank you, Mr. Rego. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u327	Thank you very much, Madam President. In agreement with almost everything that the progressive groups in this House have said, I would simply also like to point out to the parties supporting the Government that they place special emphasis on a part of those self-employed people who have been left out of all this aid, basically those seasonal self-employed people who are going to have very little income, and I am talking about the self-employed of fair attractions, part of the hospitality and the street sale, many of whose activities are not going to be able to be held, so it would be good if we could integrate them. I would also like to make a special mention of the small autonomous carriers. They have been active, because theirs was an essential activity, but they have not often been able to accept the aid and have had a decrease of between 50, 60 and 70 % of their income and some are paying their truck, so they should take some action so that they can have a moratorium. Finally, Mrs Muñoz, from Citizens, I want to tell you what we do when we have the government. The Valencian government, and in particular the Economics Council, where Compromís is located, we have dedicated 57.5 million in aid to the autonomous; they are all resolved and this week these 57.5 million will be paid, being a poorly financed autonomous community. I'm done. Mr Capdevila, we will be voting in favour of your proposal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u328	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u329	Good afternoon. Mr Capdevila commented on this, and it is that there is much talk about self-government and there is also much talk that politicians do not know what they are self-government and do not know what the real problems are. I want to move that today speaks to you an autonomous from this rostrum. I don't lift a blind, I open the door of an office, but there are people who lift blinds and open the doors of an office, people who have a startup set up and people, in short, who settle VAT, IRPFs quarterly or even ask for postponements, who pay payroll or sometimes even pay some compensation, something that of course doesn't like any self-employed person because the person who works on his own wants to generate employment, generate occupation. Know that, aware of all this, it is when proposals like this are taken out, that what you want is to help people who are linked to the special regime of autonomous people. Citizens and VOX shoot with the theme of independence, with the theme of the table, but let me tell you, from the political legacy I represent, that political Catalanism has always tried to improve Spain, has always tried to find solutions for Catalonia and Spain, what happens is that we have learned the lesson. We have learned that it is not worth it and that the best solution for us and our citizens is to have a state of their own, but we will continue here, do not hesitate. We are here, in these seats, to defend the independence of Catalonia, but also to defend the interests of the Catalan citizens, whom we represent. Therefore, we know the problem and we will continue to flag it. We will continue to support these moratoriums on taxation, giving support to these small self-employed people who have seen how when processing ICO credits have been found with life insurance, they have been found with ancillary products that the Corporate Council of the Generalitat of Catalonia has been responsible for denouncing and persecuting so that they do not occur. We will also be next to not only the self-employed, but also many mutualists who have not had either, as well as the self-employed, a cessation benefit and have not been covered in this crisis of the coronavirus. Therefore, know that we follow it closely, that we live it closely and that you will have our support in all these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u330	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Franco Carmona.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u331	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the COVID-19 pandemic has brought an unprecedented social and economic crisis that has a heavy impact on self-employed workers, but it is also true that this progressive coalition government has put in place measures to protect self-employed and self-employed people who have never been seen in this country, even though the right wing bench, which has also ruled, is dedicated to saying that it is a lie. In the previous crisis, in which the People's Party ruled, half a million self-employed workers lost their jobs, had to close, and more than 25% of those self-employed and self-employed were young people. However, in the current crisis, the Government has extended the cessation benefit - which the People's Party could have done in 2012 as well - so that they can have access to it, not only to those who stop working, but also to those who see their income drastically reduced in order to protect their jobs and who do not have to close their businesses. And it worked, and we know it, because the data says it. Half of our autonomous and autonomous countries have taken up this measure. I think that's great news. In addition, this coalition government has passed several royal decrees under very difficult conditions that have allowed things such as, for example, the suspension of autonomous and autonomous quotas that were in receipt of the cessation of activity, a moratorium on VAT in addition to a six-month moratorium on payments of social security contributions, moratoriums on the payment of rents and mortgages of premises affected by their activities, in addition to their own housing, or modification of supply contracts. This is fundamental for a very basic issue, which is for social justice, but it is also because it will allow the disposable income not to fall and therefore the domestic demand not to fall in order to ensure a subsequent economic recovery as quickly as possible. Let us record this well in our minds: social justice and economics are not only compatible, but must also go hand in hand, as this government of progressive coalition has taught us. The difficulties in accessing credit in the previous crisis were decisive so that many of the companies could not resist and had to close. Now, however, we have ICO-backed credit lines to ensure companies' liquidity. Allow me to stand here for a moment. In the previous crisis financial institutions received a huge injection of public money, a bank bailout, from which they still owe their citizens EUR 60 billion. After this, what less than that financial and banking institutions comply with the actual decree and allow access to these credits without imposing other extraordinary financial assets such as insurance or interest that do not meet the objectives of the credit. I think that's decency. With regard to the reform of the special regime for self-employed and self-employed workers, the People's Party could have done so too, now that it has come to this rostrum to boast of its need. We cannot agree more with that, Mr Capdevilla. Moreover, we have been working on this in previous legislatures through the RETA commission and it is also one of the main points of the government agreement. In the face of some amendments by some right-wing groups, which proposed a flat rate of between EUR 50 and 100, which are not so flat because at some point they end up and leave a lot of people behind, it is essential to put an end to abusive quotas, which are also an anomaly compared to other countries of the European Union. A reform of the RETA is therefore essential in order to establish a progressive contribution scheme for real income. Finally, these measures have been thanks to the social dialogue with the most representative associations of self-employment. In this context, in the context of social dialogue, these measures are being taken for the time to come, which I believe was the objective of this non-legislative proposal. The penalty is that these measures or actual decrees have not been supported by the right, the right and the ultra-right, the People's Party and the VOX. As has been said other times from this rostrum, we are bad, but less bad that we are. We said that from this crisis...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u332	Mrs. Franco, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u333	I'm done with this. We said that we were going to emerge from this crisis in a different way from the previous one, and we are demonstrating this with the protection of the self-employed, with urgent measures for the social majority such as those of child protection and with the creation of new rights such as the minimum living income that is to be approved here today. In short, in the 2008 crisis, the bank was being rescued and people are being rescued today. We will vote in favour of this non-law proposal because the agreements always seem important to us and because, ladies and gentlemen, being patriots is protecting your people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u334	Thank you, Mrs. Franco. The non-legislative proposal will be voted on in the terms of the compromise amendment that has come to the Bureau. We vote in three minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you with your name on the screen. I also remind you that those Members who have already cast the vote through the telematics procedure cannot do so again from their seats in person. Thank you very much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u335	Ladies and gentlemen, we have started the voting. Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 19/2020 of 26 May on supplementary measures in the field of agriculture, science, economics, employment and social security and taxation to alleviate the effects of COVID-19. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 96 plus 253 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 75 plus 214 telematics votes, 289; abstentions, 21 plus 39 telematics votes, 60.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u336	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to that vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 96 plus 253 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 93 plus 251 telematics votes, 344; abstentions, 3 plus 2 telematics votes, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u337	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 20/2020, OF 29 MAY, ESTABLISHING THE MINIMUM VITAL REVENUE. [[File number 130/000021]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u338	Royal Decree-Law 20/2020 of 29 May establishing minimum living income. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 96 plus 253 telematics votes, 349; 79 plus 218 telematics votes, 297; abstentions, 17 plus 35 telematics votes, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u339	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]] The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 96 plus 253 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 92 plus 249 telematics votes, 341; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 4 plus 3 telematics votes, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-10-CD200610.u340	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that from 7:30 p.m. today until 11:00 a.m. tomorrow the remaining items on the agenda can be voted on by telematics. The vote on these points will take place at the end of tomorrow's sitting. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was seven and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
