ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u1	The meeting was called to order. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We begin today's session with the reduced presence format already known in recent weeks and with an agenda that includes the appearance of the President of the Government, the debate of request of the extension of the state of alarm, questions and inquiries and the validation of a real decree law, all aspects linked to the crisis of the COVID-19, which focuses the activity of Congress these days. I am sure that I express the will of all Members, those present and those who follow the plenary telematically, saying that our task as well as that of so many other public officials, workers and professionals is our contribution to overcoming this crisis and our show of remembrance to those who suffer most or have suffered the effects of the pandemic, as well as of respect and gratitude to those who work for it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u2	In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the Chamber the exclusion of item 21 of the agenda of this meeting, corresponding to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 12/2020 of 31 March, of urgent measures in the field of protection and assistance to victims of gender-based violence. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The exclusion of the reference point is therefore approved. I should also like to inform you that the proposals concerning the request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm will be voted upon at the end of the first item on the agenda, as we did at the last extension voting session. COMPARISON OF THE GOVERNMENT TO THE FULL ROOM, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 203 OF THE REGULATION: - COMPARISON, AT THE PROPER REQUEST, OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT TO THE FULL OF THE CONGRESS OF THE DEPUTES, TO REPORT TO THE EXTRAORDINARY EUROPEAN COUNCIL ON 20 AND 21 FEBRUARY AND TO REPORT TO THE REGULAR EUROPEAN COUNCIL ON 26 AND 27 MARCH 2020. [[File number 210/000014]] ACTS RELATING TO THE STATE OF ALARM, EXCEPTION AND SITE: - Application for authorisation of the state of alarm declared by the Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the state of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by the Royal Decrees 476/2020 of 27 March, and 487/2020 of 10 April. [[File number 091/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u3	We begin with the appearance, at our own request, of the President of the Government at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies to report to the extraordinary European Council, held on 20 and 21 February, and to report to the ordinary European Council, held on 26 and 27 March 2020, which, as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, will be discussed cumulatively together with the request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm, declared by Royal Decree-Law 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by the Royal Decree-Law 476/2020 of 27 March, and 487/2020 of 10 April. To report on the European Councils and explain the reasons behind the request for an extension of the state of alarm, the President of the Government has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are only a few hours away from the forty days of confinement since we have activated one of the strictest alarm states in the world in Spain. A true quarantine that we never thought we would live and that Spanish society has had to face with courage, resistance and exemplary discipline, with a moral of victory. We are living in a time of extraordinary personal sacrifices, also of social sacrifices and economic sacrifices, which have just begun, because the global public health crisis initiated by COVID-19 will not be over until science finds a vaccine. Meanwhile, all governments in all institutions, in all corners of the planet, must continue to work to contain the spread of the virus, while preparing to enter a new normality. There have been positive trends in Spain for days that indicate that we are doubling the contagion curve. We have overcome, as the Minister of Health has said in various appearances, the critical moment of the spread of the virus; our health system has resisted, and the number of recoveries - which today totals more than 82,000 people - is a reason for hope. But, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot lower our guard, even if our health system begins to decongest - as it is doing - and the materials and tests are coming - as they are already doing in greater quantities - every lost life reminds us of the solemn obligation to continue working tirelessly to offer one morning to all Spaniards and Spaniards. Those stolen lives have filled with pain the homes of thousands of families who will never forget the brutality of this health crisis. I want to assure you here again, in the House of Popular Sovereignty, that Spanish society will neither forget it nor forget its dead, they all deserve our tribute and will have it; they all deserve our remembrance and will have it, moreover, with the breadth and solemnity they deserve. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear today at the Congress of Deputies for two reasons, as the President of the Congress has said. Firstly, in order to request the further extension of the state of alarm, which will allow us to enter progressively and sensibly into the next phase, the phase of descalation, and secondly, to account for the work that the Government of Spain is doing within the framework of the European Union in various European councils that have been developing during this beginning of the year. I begin with the first point, the object of the motive that has brought us here. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that all the parliamentary forces - or at least most of the parliamentary forces present here - support the Royal Decree extending the state of alarm adopted by the Government of Spain at the last Council of Ministers held yesterday. This is the third time I have asked as President of the Government for this extension, but this is the first time that I can do it with a prudent future scenario - and I stress this word, cautiously - optimistic. Citizenship has resisted the disciplined confinement charged with growing longings and certainly also, let us recognize it, with uncertainty. All of Spain has reinvented itself in this week, has learned to live in waiting, in the absence of certainties, in the enclosure. For the first time since this terrible emergency began, I am today asking for an extension of the state of alarm by seeing what life could be like, once the acute phase of the crisis has passed. As I announced, ladies and gentlemen, last Saturday - and I also treated the presidents and autonomous presidents and the mayors represented in the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, and without a doubt also the leaders of the majority of the political parties - we were able to start designing the next scenario that is the stage of the descalada. I consider it essential to extend the state of alarm because we have to be extremely cautious at this stage. In a situation of extreme gravity, such as the one we live in - and I say it now - it is obvious that any optimism must be accompanied by prudence, the necessary and the essential prudence. Therefore, by following the advice of the World Health Organization and from the Government of Spain with the advice of various scientists, from the Government we will be extremely cautious and cautious in the so-called phase of descalation. As you know, WHO, the World Health Organization, has recommended the six guidelines that a country must bring together to lift the confinement. And I would like to share them with all of you, at least so that it is recorded in the Congressional Journal of Sessions. Firstly, transmission will have to be controlled and identified for infected persons. We are moving in the right direction - in my opinion - to achieve this in each and every territory of our country. Secondly, the National Health System should be able to detect by test each case of infection that appears so that it is immediately isolated and to warn people to whom it may have infected. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already carried out a million PCR tests, which are most likely, and we have provided two million rapid tests to the autonomous communities to develop them in those places where there can be a potential contagion, such as hospitals and also the residences of older people, as you all know. Thirdly, we must have under full control places with the highest risk of infection and maximum vulnerability, i.e. health facilities and new residences for older people. Fourthly, a system of control of people from other areas will have to be put in place to prevent new imported infections, we are already doing so and we will continue to do so over the next few weeks, not only at national level but also at European and international level. Fifthly, we must - we are told by the WHO - establish strict preventive measures in workplaces and also in educational establishments, and we are achieving this by the hands of the social partners and also of the autonomous communities in many of these areas. And sixthly, the population must have complete information and we must all be committed to the rules of hygiene and social distancing. I believe that we are doing this on a permanent basis and the commitment of all citizens is - I insist - even exemplary. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain will follow the approach of the WHO and the experts, as we have done since the beginning of the crisis, and with much more reason at this stage in which we risk the achievements that we have all achieved so hard. The general confinement will not rise until we are truly prepared for it, because we are not going to run any risk that will bring us back to the painful situation that we have experienced and that has cost us all so much to reverse. This extension of the state of alarm, ladies and gentlemen, will not be the same as the previous ones. Legal coverage will be the same, the state of alarm provided for in our Constitution, but the rules and scope will vary in the same way as the situation has changed. Therefore, over the coming weeks, and having in the second half of May the horizon of descalation or the second phase of the fight against the COVID-19 epidemic, the rules and limitations will have to vary in order to adjust to these new scenarios. Progressively, ladies and gentlemen, the danger will be reduced and, according to that reduction, the conditions of the state of alarm will be changed, always - I insist - with the same premise: to protect the citizenry and to keep our health system safe so that the descalation can be carried out gradually and safely. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we should all assume that the descalation is going to be slow and gradual, precisely because it must be safe. Every improvement in the health system and every check of the control of the contagions will allow us a new advance in the liberation of spaces of mobility and social activity. Ladies and gentlemen, we must avoid to the extent of our possibilities, and with all the uncertainty that logically you have to face a virus that is still unknown to science as to its remedy, the wrong steps. That is why, after every new breakthrough, we have to make sure of its solidity before taking a new step. If we keep the virus at bay and our health system maintains and strengthens the tone, we will pose a new step, and if not, we will stop, if we warn of any risk, we will re-establish the restrictions. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no final decisions, but there will be progress and setbacks depending on the behaviour of the virus against those decisions that we are taking. Ladies and gentlemen, this extension of the alarm decree includes two very important amendments that I would like to share with all of you. The first is that which will alleviate the confinement of minors, boys and girls, and thus facilitate the day-to-day life of their parents. And the second is that the royal decree enables the Ministry of Health with new powers. On the first point, this is a government that listens, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why we are proposing relief from the confinement of minors. It is true that we sin with prudence; our sons and daughters are all. The scientific committee that advises the Government, as well as the experts in pediatrics and child psychology, have asked us to do so with the utmost caution, and after the discussions of the health authorities and children's authorities, minors will be able to take controlled walks. On these grounds, from next Sunday, 26 April, the date of the start of the new extension, we propose to allow minors aged fourteen to accompany an adult responsible for their care when he carries out some activity allowed during the state of alarm and for the walks of minors will be approved an order, under the authorization that the Ministry of Health has conferred by the royal decree of the state of alarm, as already yesterday the Minister of Health made public before Spanish society. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is aware of the tremendous effort that confinement has made for children and for parents, for families in our country. I repeat that this exception, this small relief - because it is a small relief - which implies the possibility of children leaving, does not alter the most important, which is the rule of general confinement that continues in force. With regard to the second point of the change in the state of alarm, which seems to me to be the most substantive from the point of view of substance and horizon that we have during the next two weeks of work, I would like to inform you that this royal decree of extension is different from the previous ones and it is because this royal decree will allow us to begin to derail the rules of confinement. Therefore, what the Government proposes in this amendment that we bring to its debate and vote is to empower the Ministry of Health to modify, expand, restrict, allow measures, places, establishments and commercial, cultural and recreational activities. And I think it is very important to underline the verbs that I incorporate in my speech, and also logically in the text that you have to put to the vote: it empowers the Ministry of Health to modify, to extend, to restrict the measures, the places, the establishments and the commercial, cultural and recreational activities allowed. That is, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to take steps forward and we are going to take steps backwards, depending on how the pandemic, the epidemic, is going on in each of the territories. The Ministry of Health is also empowered to issue orders and instructions determining the scope and territorial scope of other activities and movements already permitted. This is an essential legal tool that will help us to move forward in the different stages that will make up the transition to this new normality, once we have defeated the virus. In that transition we are already counting on the autonomous communities, as we have also been doing with the social actors, and in this case we met with the autonomous governments on Monday precisely to start building this strategy of descalation. We are in the right direction, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can embark on this process of de-escalation when it touches with the best coordination between the various administrations. I also think it is very important to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that the municipalities and the provinces are going to play a decisive role in this transition to this new normality. Why? Because the territorial units, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the action of this decontainment or de-escalation is concerned will most likely be inferior to what the autonomous governments represent administratively. Ladies and gentlemen, when I obtained the investiture as President of the Government, just a few days before the pandemic reached Spain, I expressed the goals that I wanted for our country and that I am sure it shares a large majority of Spanish society regardless of who votes in the various elections. First, growth - I said - based on knowledge and increased productivity. Secondly, a leap forward in the incorporation of Spain and society as a whole into the technological revolution in all areas of our society. Thirdly, an ecological transition to more sustainable and logical modes of production that must preserve the environment, in addition to ensuring justice in this ecological transition. Fourthly, a strong welfare state - I think it is very important to draw this conclusion after what we are experiencing - which dispenses social justice and protects everyone, especially the weakest. And finally, full equality between men and women, as well as a country capable of living together in the difference. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these goals devoid of any partisan spirit remain fully effective following the health, economic and social crisis to which we have been subjected. I believe that it should be a source of satisfaction for all to have succeeded in bringing the vast majority of political forces into the arrangement to form agreements for the social and economic reconstruction of our country. For the first time after many years the political forces with parliamentary representation - at least for the most part - will meet at a table to dialogue, to contrast, to start designing a future scenario of common work, unity and strength, dialogue and solidarity. I believe that this is a step that the vast majority of citizens long for, and I will also say that it needs our country. That is why it is synonymous with hope for our Government. The Government has already said, and reiterates it today, that the protagonist of these pacts is collective and that if they include a success there will be only one winner, and it is precisely the whole of the citizenry. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank here and now all the parties that have said yes to this table for the social and economic reconstruction, to the autonomous governments that have also said yes to that desire for an interinstitutional agreement for the social and economic reconstruction, and without a doubt also to the municipalities and social actors that have accepted the challenge of putting us to seek among all that unites us and to park the differences that logically separate us, of making effective the interest of all Spanish citizens above any partisan strategy that seeks the particular benefit at the expense of the rest. We are going to lay the foundations for an agreement with a view to the future, and I sincerely believe that this is the best we can offer our country. I believe that from this dialogue, which is going to be intense and complex, but also complete and profound, there will be an encouraging future; an encouraging future must emerge. It will lay the foundations for a new way of governing and a new way of doing politics. Before I said that all of Spain was reinventing itself; it has reinvented its everyday life, its way of organizing itself, its way of surviving and also of resisting. So the time has come for politics to live up to the citizenry, the time has come for new political ways. When we have enough perspective, ladies and gentlemen, we will surely see that this global emergency has the effect of accelerating changes, which have already been under way for years: the shift to new forms of non-invasive work, with the spread of telework; the shift to forms of production and consumption compatible with the response to the climate emergency; the accelerated shift to digitisation and automation, where we are seeing, for example, the digital divide and the effects it is having on education, particularly on public education; the shift to forms of global governance to deal with threats that are also global, such as this pandemic. But a global shock has come that has accelerated all these changes that we have been recording and debating in this House, in this forum, for a long time, and I believe that one of the most important changes awaiting us is the change in policy towards forms of dialogue and cooperation that replace sterile dialectics of blockade and confrontation. The thought that a plural country needs plural work and a will for union is an idea that has opened itself up in these weeks, let us recognize it, with great strength. This, ladies and gentlemen, as we said at the beginning of the investiture, is the legislature of dialogue, it must be the legislature of dialogue; I repeated it later and I maintain it, ladies and gentlemen. There will be no better or more pressing opportunity to put into effect that unique will that has the whole of the Spanish dialogue society than this moment so critical, so transcendental for the history of Spain and also of Europe. I believe that this is the case for all of us, and we are going to demonstrate it in the work for this social and economic reconstruction agreement that will take place in this very House. On several occasions I have stated, ladies and gentlemen, inside and outside this House that I was asking the political forces for unity and loyalty, that I was asking for exactly what I was willing to offer. No one in good faith discusses the need for social and economic reconstruction agreements to re-establish our country, especially in view of the economic prospects presented by various international bodies. On the other hand, there are those who doubt the sincerity of the proposal, because they believe that it is the Government that could benefit from these agreements. Well, I want to offer two guarantees against those reservations today. First of all, I wish to solemnly proclaim that the culmination of an agreement will be a success for all those who bow their shoulders and thus contribute to understanding; reconstruction pacts cannot be patrimonialized by anyone. Secondly, the need for social and economic reconstruction is a pressure that is not expressed only at national level, it does not challenge this House alone. The economic and social devastation caused by this crisis will manifest itself in all the spaces of our geography and of our Administration, which is one of the most decentralized in the world, in particular in a face as capital as that of our National Health System. That is why I express my support for the achievement of reconstruction pacts at the different stages of our geography. I repeat: I express my support for the achievement of reconstruction pacts at the different stages of our geography. These reconstruction agreements must incorporate that spirit of unity and common work in each autonomous community, in each municipality, the governing authority. Therefore, yes to the reconstruction agreements, with all their consequences, without reservation, in each place, in each administration, governs who governs, without more exclusion than those of those who self-exclude and decide to stay out of the social and economic recovery of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the working space for the agreements to be successful must be confined to matters which may lead to an agreement and must set aside those which cause controversy. First of all, I think it is clear that we need to talk about our National Health System. We must rebuild it, we must strengthen it, because it is not only the defense that protects us all as individuals, but it is what defends us as a community against attacks and threats like the ones we are suffering. Secondly, it is essential to revitalize the pulse of our economy. It is necessary to agree on the precise financial, fiscal and administrative measures to rebuild and relaunch the business fabric devastated by this pandemic, to restore power and dynamism to all sectors affected, focusing on small and medium-sized enterprises, the social economy and self-employment, which suffer from a much more peremptory weakness because of their size. The whole social economy of our country must be re-launched and sectors that have been hit hard, such as industry, tourism, hospitality and culture, must be given greater priority. Thirdly, it is essential to take social protection measures, so that absolutely no one is abandoned or unprotected in a crisis or in a trance like this, or when the social and economic crisis takes over from the health crisis. Finally, it is essential that in this new way of making policy we have as a priority to be in line with the European agreements, which we offer and demand within, we can offer and demand outside. Ladies and gentlemen, the pacts in Spain will be the pacts in Europe: union and solidarity, the capacity to work together, the real possibility of sustaining freedom and democracy, of leaving no one behind, ultimately. That is the new policy that awaits us, that is the new policy to which the Government appeals, that is the future for which we are going to work and fight together and together in Spain and Europe. At this point, I will inform you of the results of the various extraordinary European Councils on 20 and 21 February and of the ordinary European Council held on 26 March. On the European Council of 20 and 21 February, a Council was proposed by the President, Charles Michel, as an opportunity to reach agreement on the multiannual financial framework, which was anticipated to be very complicated from the beginning. As you know, at last December's meeting there was no agreement on the proposal which the Commission first presented, and then the Presidency of the European Union, the Finnish Presidency. Both were insufficient for the Spanish objectives in the area of the common agricultural policy and also cohesion policy. We therefore call on the President-in-Office of the Council to present a new proposal with an approach to positions, which led to this proposal being presented on 14 February and which formed the basis for the negotiation of the extraordinary European Council that brings us here today. Before that meeting, ladies and gentlemen, we said that the new proposal seemed just as disappointing to us as the previous one, because it still did not reflect the approaches of many countries, including our own, and that did not favour consensus. The final result is already known, there was no agreement, and the President of the Council acknowledged that we needed more time to negotiate. The Spanish position was and will continue to be the defence of Spain's interests in Europe, of a Europe that has to be strong and solidary. We have the support of a large number of partners, articulated under the umbrella of the group of countries for a more ambitious Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, it has barely been eight weeks since that meeting - eight weeks - and today when I told you this, I am convinced that you thought it had happened years ago. The world we lived in has suddenly changed. However, what the Spanish Government had defended in those days had become even more meaningful. Our approaches at that time have proved essential today, if we are to ensure the reconstruction and economic and social recovery of our country, and also of the European Union as a whole, in order to successfully address the consequences of the pandemic. Let me therefore go into detail with what was and continues to be at stake in the last proposal, the content of which is still disappointing today for the Spanish Government for three specific reasons. Firstly, because the total volume of the multiannual financial framework, i.e. the volume of budgets for the next seven years of the European Union, was and is insufficient. If we advocate ambitious budgets, capable of responding to the challenges of the future of the European Union, and also assuming the cost of leaving the United Kingdom, it is clear that we need to aspire to much more, much more resources. We are talking, among other issues, for example, about the new European green pact, the decarbonisation of productive activities, the justice of this ecological transition, migration policy, digital transition policy, neighbourhood policies, the common agricultural policy, cohesion policy and, in addition, a long one and so on. To give an idea, the initial proposal defined a Community budget size of 1.074 % of the gross national income of the Union as a whole, only four hundredths more than last December's Finnish proposal. In short, it involved a practical freezing of the European budget and was therefore unacceptable. The Government of Spain obviously opposed it, as you all know. We must also remember at this point that the European Commission's initial proposal was 1.114 % of gross national income and that that of the European Parliament was an even higher proposal, 1.3 %. I believe that an ambitious budget is today - and we could all agree, ladies and gentlemen - an indispensable condition; without it we will not be able to respond to the enormous challenges before us, those we had and those we will have after the pandemic. After the crisis of the COVID-19 we need a European budget that is qualitative and quantitatively different from all those that have preceded us so far. Spain, ladies and gentlemen - you have the conviction, the certainty - is one of the countries that is struggling most to make this happen and we will continue to do so at the European Council that is being convened for tomorrow. There is an idea that we have to start to assume in all areas and also in this, and that is that the pre-crisis does not serve as a standard of measurement. We have to invent a new normality and, therefore, we have to do it with ambition, and ambition has to be accompanied logically by budgetary resources. The second reason for their disappointment earlier has to do with the huge cuts in two traditional policies - one of which has also proved essential after the outbreak of this pandemic - one is the common agricultural policy and also the cohesion policies that constitute the backbone of the European Union. At this point, the Spanish Government has firmly defended the need to break with the misleading disjunctive which seeks to counter the supposed old European policies common to policies that make no sense, negative policies even for the construction of Europe, and to associate good policies with new policies. Nothing further from reality, ladies and gentlemen; I have heard it from the rostrum when we also had the opportunity to talk about the financial perspectives in times past. We must maintain both priorities; cohesion policies and, above all, the common agricultural policy, which are the ones closest to the citizenry and which strengthen something very important which is now also called into question as a result of the crisis, which is the internal market and its proper functioning. With regard to cohesion policy, I would like to tell you that there will be no real convergence between regions, no equality of conditions or a real model change, such as the one calling for, for example, the European Green Agreement, without a strong cohesion policy. And we could not therefore accept a proposal involving a funding allocation for our country well below the initial proposal of the European Commission, which, let us remember, amounted to EUR 34 billion. There are still twenty-two European regions that after nine years have not recovered their level of GDP per capita prior to the 2008 crisis, all of which are concentrated in southern Europe, including twelve regions in Greece, five in Spain and four in Italy. The new financial framework cannot ignore the fact that our regions were impoverished as a result of the 2008 economic and financial crisis, worsening in terms of GDP per capita and unemployment compared to most European regions. Eleven, ladies and gentlemen, eleven of our autonomous communities would be downgraded to the next multiannual financial framework if we followed the line proposed by the Finnish Presidency. Fourteen of our regions would now be in transition or considered less developed regions. It would therefore be a strategic mistake not only for Spain, but also for Europe to allow for a reduction in policies aimed at compensating for the differences in development, especially in the peripheral regions, which benefit less from a central geographical position in access to the internal market. The Government was not prepared in February for proposals in cohesion to abandon those who suffered the most from the 2008 crisis. The new reality following the crisis of COVID-19 will add and aggravate economic and social impacts to which cohesion policy will have to respond in order not to leave anyone behind. And with regard to the common agricultural policy, I would like to say to you that, as you know, the next multiannual financial framework was an unprecedented opportunity for the agricultural sector to contribute positively to the transition to a climate-neutral economy by 2050. This is what the Spanish Government has defended. However, the proposal you know, the February proposal, set cuts of up to EUR 53 billion in the CAP, with a reduction of 10.8% for our country, something simply inconsumable while we require farmers and farmers to make further efforts to adapt to this ecological transition, rural workers who are asking us to accompany us in the modernisation they are doing and who are facing the consequences of depopulation, which is another of the challenges of our country and of the European continent. We therefore make clear our refusal to cut the budget and our demand to maintain at least the same amount for the CAP in current terms as in the current multiannual financial framework, including direct payments, which are so important to our farmers. The new proposal included in this section the Just Transition Fund for Climate Neutrality in 2050, a model with which our country and the Government of Spain, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, are fully committed. And from the government we have issued two warnings to the rest of the members of the European Council: the first, that the criteria of division should not reward those who have not done their duties, among other things, because we did them a few months ago; and the second, that there must be an equalization of rules between the European Regional Development Fund and the Just Transition Fund, and this is important for the ecological transition to be financed through both instruments and for the level of development of each of the regions on our continent to be taken into account. The third reason for disappointment that we do not share the European Council's approach in February was the maintenance by the Presidency of the Council and the then Finnish Presidency of the cheque system, although its logic only made sense with the United Kingdom's stay in the European Union. This is a regressive system that the Spanish Government wants to eradicate as soon as possible, as it goes against any redistributive justice to reward even more those who have more and therefore those who enjoy more wealth. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said earlier, the reality of the days following that European Council drastically altered our agendas and our priorities. We have not stopped working on this since then, although the next meeting of the European Council, to which I shall now refer, necessarily had another much more urgent content, which is the response to COVID-19. The macroeconomic framework governing the previous proposals has completely expired, it is already a wet paper, and the urgency of a genuine Marshall Plan - if you will allow me to express it - for social and economic reconstruction in Europe places the multiannual financial framework again at the centre of all our negotiations. We are confident that the European Council tomorrow that we will hold in the afternoon will be able to come up with a first consensus that is in line with the position maintained by the Spanish Government in February, which I have just explained to you, because what was before just and convenient is now simply essential; essential for the European Union to deserve that name and not that of a circumstantial grouping of commercial interests. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am now reporting on the European Council held by videoconference on 26 March and, logically, on the position of the Government of Spain in the European Council that we will hold tomorrow afternoon. With regard to the European Council of 26 March, in the face of the global public health crisis caused by COVID-19 in our countries, the governments of the Member States have held numerous meetings to coordinate a collective response. Thus, on 17 March, there was already a video conference after which we adopted a joint statement expressing the deep solidarity of the 27 EU Member States with the victims of the pandemic and their families, a text that reflected objectives in four major areas that I would like to remind them of: the first, the containment of the pandemic; the second, a better distribution of health resources through some centralised purchases at European level; the third, support for research to find a vaccine as soon as possible, and finally preparations for social and economic recovery. With regard to the first point, namely the adoption of measures to contain the spread of the virus, as of 26 March all Member States had already taken different measures against the pandemic. The Government of Spain in particular had launched for two weeks - remember - the most stringent measures, along with Italy, from all over the continent. The European Council confirmed that all these national efforts, including ours, met the criteria of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and the recommendations of the Commission's advisory panel on COVID-19. In addition, the Croatian Presidency, which is right now leading - let us say - the Union's designs, has activated the Union's integrated policy response to the crisis to carry out a coordinated follow-up of developments. At the last European Council we discussed two important points concerning the mobility of people, which you know of: the control of external borders with the application of a 30-day, now extended, temporary restriction on non-essential travel to the European Union. Secondly, a smooth management at the internal borders, where there would be - let us say - controls to ensure that these do not affect essential movements, especially the cross-border workers of essential goods - our country, logically, affects that relationship with France and Portugal - and, in addition, the measures adopted to contain the virus, which are having an impact on the agricultural sector in several countries, including ours. The European agri-food chain has demonstrated its resilience and capacity to ensure the regular delivery of food to European citizens in quality and quantity, despite all the restrictions imposed by Member States to tackle the outbreak of COVID-19. However, the closure of the hotel, restaurant and catering sector will severely affect the agri-food sector, especially a large number of farmers whose products will not be released into the market in the short term. The Government is therefore urging the Community authorities, ladies and gentlemen, that all instruments of the common agricultural policy be deployed urgently to deal with market disturbances, thus helping farmers to maintain the productive potential that provides food for Europe. Finally, we share the need to firmly counter the bubbles and misinformation through transparent and responsible communication. The European Commission and the High Representative will be fully involved in this matter and will report to the Council on joint efforts. With regard to the provision of medical supplies, which was the second of the issues we dealt with at that Council in March, it is important to remember, ladies and gentlemen, that we were moving then, and still today, in a difficult buying environment and a highly aggressive market. We therefore call on the European Commission to continue and accelerate its assistance to ensure the rapid and adequate supply of medical equipment throughout the European Union, which was our top priority. The need for authorisation to export these resources outside the European Union was also established. Since it cannot be otherwise, we appreciate the efforts made by the European Commission to relocate resources, to increase the initial budget for the strategic reserve of medical equipment. Let me add to this one of the proposals that the Spanish Government is already promoting within the framework of the European Union, such as the need to carry out regular stress-testing of our national health systems as part of the European Semester. That is to say, just as the European Commission regularly monitors public finances or macroeconomic imbalances by requiring minimum levels of solvency, we will ask that the same be done with Member States' health systems to ensure their robustness in the future. Thirdly, with regard to the promotion of medical research, we agree to strongly support research and to coordinate efforts within the European scientific community in order to develop a vaccine as soon as possible. That is why we call for collaboration not only within the European Union, but also in the rest of the world, especially among our partners in the G-20 and also in the G-7, and we welcome the initiatives taken by the Commission, the European Innovation Council and the Group of the European Investment Bank to provide financial support for the assistance response and the promotion of research. Ladies and gentlemen, this pandemic is global and international collaboration is essential. That is why I would also like to stress at this point the importance of the European Union's external action to help our neighbours on the southern side of the Mediterranean, of Ibero-America and, without a doubt, also of Africa in its efforts not only to combat COVID-19 - a message I will insist on tomorrow with my colleagues in the European Council - but also against the terrible economic consequences that the crisis of COVID-19 is going to have for a whole continent such as the African continent. I believe that the whole of the European Union and also a country like ours must show such solidarity with the African continent and with our Latin American brothers, as a result not only of the impact that the public health crisis is going to have, but also of the dramatic economic and social consequences that are going to live whole societies. With regard to the socio-economic consequences, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the public health crisis caused by COVID-19 is leading to an unprecedented economic and social crisis. We've been able to see some data that shakes everyone who reads it. We are faced with a historic challenge that obliges us to work already for a reconstruction that must also be historic, a reconstruction that must necessarily be based on a strong and solidarity-based European response. Consequently, on 26 March the European Council took note of the progress made by the Eurogroup two days earlier and we appreciate the measures taken by the European Central Bank to ensure favourable financing conditions. We also welcomed the unprecedented use of the general derogation clause of the Stability and Growth Pact, which allows for indebtedness beyond what is normally foreseen, and the Commission's temporary framework, which has allowed for more flexibility and rapid authorisation of state and extraordinary aid launched by different Member States, including our country, in the context of the crisis. The Spanish Government recognizes, ladies and gentlemen, the will of the European institutions, reflected in all the instruments that have been put in place, as well as in the adaptation of the existing mechanisms to put them at the service of the current situation. However, as you know and I have already mentioned, our Government has called for new and ambitious mechanisms to prove that the Union is up to the expectations of its citizens. It must be said that in this endeavour we are not much less alone. That is why, before the 26th meeting, I signed, together with eight other European Heads of State and Government, a letter to the President of the European Council demanding that we work on a common debt instrument to help us finance the necessary economic and social reconstruction of the Union as a whole. As you know, at that time an overall agreement was not possible, but something important was agreed, and it was entrusted to the Eurogroup to work to offer us proposals within two weeks. On 9 April, the Eurogroup reached their agreement on short-term measures, insisting on this short-term temporary horizon in three directions: firstly, to protect workers by creating a support instrument to mitigate the risks of unemployment, which could finance, for example, ERTE in our country; secondly, to protect companies, with the support of the European Investment Bank; and thirdly, to support States in their health response through non-conditional access to a new MED line of up to EUR 240 billion. A total of EUR 540 billion is needed to respond in the short term with European funding to this crisis in COVID-19. What I think is even more important than what was agreed by the finance ministers on 9 April was the outline of the need for a reconstruction plan, a medium- and long-term recovery plan for our continent. At the video conference on 26 March, I already presented to the other European leaders our proposal for a Marshall plan for Europe, and the declaration incorporated the idea of a road map in that direction. I believe that, for the Spanish Government, the reconstruction plan must be of a size commensurate with the challenge before us, allowing for sufficient flexibility of the cohesion instruments - which are essential for managing it in those territories most damaged by the pandemic - which we believe are called upon to play a decisive role, and taking into account the different economic sectors that will be most affected in our country, in particular the tourism sector and the rest of the services. At tomorrow's European Council, ladies and gentlemen, we will address all these aspects. I would also like to convey to you the reasonable optimism of the Government, because the conclusions envisage that the exit from this crisis must be accompanied by sustainable growth and linked to the just ecological transition. We have made the fight against the climate emergency a cross-cutting pillar of our government action and have positioned Spain at the forefront of Europe in this area. The deterioration of our planet does not wait for reconstruction and must therefore be one of the main elements of it and of that future recovery of our continent. The Vice-President and Minister for Transitional Ecological and Demographic Challenge has made this known in a letter she has addressed to the European Commission together with others from her European counterparts. With regard to the repatriation of European citizens blocked in third countries, on 26 March we agreed on the desirability of intensifying and further accelerating efforts to ensure that citizens of the Union who are blocked in third countries and wish to return to our continent, to their countries, can do so. We are counting on the active support of the High Representative and the European Commission, which has already resulted in thousands of repatriations. The Government, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is in constant contact with its network of embassies and consulates around the world, whose employees, by the way, I take the opportunity to thank them for their tireless efforts to help Spanish citizens living abroad. The Minister has created a crisis unit, which is coordinating the return of Spanish citizens together with the autonomous communities, third countries and the Member States of the Union. In recent weeks, ladies and gentlemen, the return of more than 21,000 compatriots has been facilitated. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a long and complex summary of what has happened in these last two councils, but, as you well know, tomorrow we face a new meeting whose significance does not escape anyone. That is why I thought it appropriate to finish my speech with a brief reference to the position that the Spanish Government is going to hold at the Council meeting tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of an indisputable fact, and it is that we must achieve the greatest possible unity among ourselves in order to rebuild our country, but the real possibilities of the measures we agree will depend on the existence of a major European reconstruction and recovery plan. That is why we have come to the European Council tomorrow with three major priorities that we are going to push in all areas and by all means. Firstly, the European Council should welcome the financial package approved by the Eurogroup, to which I referred earlier, and call for the completion of the preparatory work so that the instruments are ready by 1 June at the latest. This is key for Europe and is therefore key for our country. Secondly, the Spanish Government has made a proposal this week which seeks to bring together as much ambition as possible in defending our legitimate interests with a real possibility of agreement. We have proposed the creation of a large recovery fund of up to EUR 1.5 billion - three times as much as agreed in the Eurogroup - financed with perpetual debt and linked to the budget of the European Union. It is a solution that, in our view, offers four definite advantages that I want to share with all of you. Firstly, it would involve deep-lost transfers instead of repayable loans, which would only serve to aggravate the massive indebtedness of the countries of the European Union. Secondly, these direct transfers would be intended to finance a recovery and reconstruction programme that will enable the European economies to be revived rapidly, investing in key areas such as the ecological transition, the digital transition, the improvement of the European Union's industrial and technological autonomy and also investing in the most affected sectors, such as transport or tourism. Thirdly, the distribution of funds among Member States would take place in the light of the human, social and economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, i.e. the bulk of resources should go to those countries most affected. Fourthly, financing through perpetual debt would mean that only interest would be paid, guaranteed jointly by the power of the European budget through the creation of real Community taxes, such as CO2 tax at the border or a tax on financial transactions, among others. The third priority for the Spanish Government in the European Council is to reach agreement on the next multiannual financial framework for the Community budget for the next seven years. At this critical moment Europe needs a budget as soon as possible - I think we can all agree on this - to maintain the allocation of agricultural and cohesion policies while strengthening allocations to other sectors that have proved to be key in this crisis, such as digitisation, the green transition or - why not say so too - research, science, migration or strengthening our health system. This is, in short, a pragmatic, effective and essential proposal; a proposal, moreover, which can be accepted by our most reticent partners - if I may say so - because it would not require legal changes that could lead to parliamentary or legal proceedings at national level, which are very important for certain more reticent partners. It is an instrument, in short, at the height of the gravity of the situation, but it would demonstrate the real intention of the Union to act with real scope, because we cannot limit ourselves to trying to put out the fire, ladies and gentlemen; it is about rebuilding the house and welcoming everyone in it. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude my speech, and I would like to do so precisely by insisting on this idea. So far all our collective efforts have been directed in a fundamental direction, in which we continue, and it is to defend ourselves from the unexpected and brutal attack of the pandemic; to fight, each from its posts, to defend lives in this silent war without bombs. The moment comes when, without neglecting that defence - I insist, without neglecting that defence at all - we must also take decisive steps towards proposals that rebuild a common future, looking forward and on the basis of solidarity, a feeling that the European Union itself originated. Without losing perspective, we must get out of the rhythm imposed by the disease and take the political initiative to rebuild the landscape that appears after its passage, I insist, without neglecting our defense as little as possible. That is why this appearance reflects, precisely, the point at which we find ourselves. We need, ladies and gentlemen, to prolong the state of alarm, which has been our most effective measure of protection in the past weeks - here are the data - and at the same time to address the agreements that must make us face the future with ambition and hope, both on the national stage and on the European level. Ladies and gentlemen, we have lost a lot in these terrible days; above all, we have lost the lives of compatriots, family and friends, whom we have seen march in solitude and whose absence we are not going to recover. Like them, much of what has gone away in these unusual weeks will not return, and with that weight we will have to face the reconstruction of our lives and also of our country. That is why let us implement all our resources, all our potential as people, as a community, as a country, and that our competencies are aligned with our ambitions. Every confrontation that we encourage, every delay that we assume for other calculations and interests will be a burden that we will bear in the coming months and years. Each agreement we reach will, on the contrary, be the fertile ground from which to grow again. I, ladies and gentlemen, have confidence; trust in our autonomous and municipal institutions; trust in our social partners; trust in the European institutions, in their willingness to maintain the Union despite differences and difficulties; and trust, above all and above all, in our compatriots who have given an example of self-denial, of social discipline and of morals of unmatched victory; confidence in their capabilities, in their intelligence and, as I said before, in their spirit of victory. From their homes, from their jobs, from the hospitals, they are the ones who mark the way, ladies and gentlemen, and I therefore propose that we reserve the applause of this House for those who fight in the front line. More than the words of one or another speaker, it is they who deserve the tribute of applause. It is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to respect your efforts and to pay tribute to it with the silent applause of our union. I hope that that will be possible in this meeting and in future meetings. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common and of some members of the Government present in the Chamber, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u6	Madam President, before I begin, I would like to formally request that the House keep a minute of silence in honour of the 22 000 victims killed by the coronavirus in Spain. [[The ladies and gentlemen present in the Chamber, stood up, kept a minute of silence.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u7	Thank you. COMPARISON OF THE GOVERNMENT TO THE FULL OF THE CAMARA, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 203 OF THE REGULATION. [[CONTINUATION]] - No, no, no, - COMPARISON, AT THE PROPER REQUEST, OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT TO THE FULL OF THE CONGRESS OF THE DEPUTES, TO REPORT TO THE EXTRAORDINARY EUROPEAN COUNCIL ON 20 AND 21 FEBRUARY AND TO REPORT TO THE REGULAR EUROPEAN COUNCIL ON 26 AND 27 MARCH 2020. [[File number 210/000014]] ACTS RELATING TO THE STATE OF ALARM, EXCEPTION AND SITE. [[CONTINUATION]] - No, no, no, - Application for authorisation of the state of alarm declared by the Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the state of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by the Royal Decrees 476/2020 of 27 March, and 487/2020 of 10 April. [[File number 091/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain hurts me, I am convinced that just like all of you. We have already had a month and a half of national drama, and this is not a war, as the government likes to compare, this is a catastrophe in human lives, this is an economic hecatombe and, although that comparison is abused and even the appearances with uniforms are abused with which too many times they try to hide, it cannot be measured in war terms, because no one is going to win, because all the Spaniards have already lost too much. Yesterday they buried my father's brother in solitude. I was talking to my cousin last night and he was like, "I never thought you could be with us, that we could do it like this." But much worse are those infected than your family has not even been able to say goodbye at the worst times. How many family dramas are there in Spain? How many dramatic absences have there been? Every day hundreds of people continue to die in our country, in the last 24 hours 400. To give us an idea of the dimension, there have been days in Spain in which there have been more victims than in five attacks of the 11-M; for us to see the global dimension, in Spain more people have died by coronavirus than allied soldiers in the landing of Normandy. They are not curves or peaks, they are not numbers, they are not cold statistics, they are broken families, they are lives truncated before time. Mr Sánchez, I have not heard you in an hour or even refer to the number of victims in Spain. And that's not casual, and I dare say, uncritically, that's not moral. You can't go on like this. This isn't going well. Firstly, I would like to analyse why it is not going well in terms of responding to the health emergency. Spain is the country of the world with the most victims per inhabitant. It is not true that we are in the international average; if that were the case in the world, there would be 16 million deaths by coronavirus and, fortunately, it is not. What is not a receipt is that a nation that respects itself will not even be able to tell its dead. Thirty-four days after assuming sole command with the state alarm, his Government had acknowledged that it was not certain how many Spaniards had died because of the COVID-19. They have so much interest in talking about other dead in recent years that we are not even able to be effective in those who die in our day. How is it possible that Portugal has had 700 victims throughout the pandemic and we 22 000, according to official data, when we share a border with this country with four Spanish autonomy? How is it possible that Greece, Denmark, Austria have already defeated the pandemic with fewer victims than on a single day of fighting the virus in Spain? How is it possible for an Australian institute to say that we are the country that has managed the worst response to coronavirus? If it's something symmetrical and global, why have you been mad at our country? Why do you not recognize that something better has been done? Why don't you apologize for your mistakes? I will say, in our opinion, what they have been. As Fedea said: tardiness. This prestigious institute said that if the containment measures had been taken only a week earlier, 62% of the contagion would have been avoided. How many lives would we have saved if those measures had not been halted, hidden the reports of the World Health Organization or hidden the warnings of the European Union for an ideological agenda, in order to arrive at the events of 8 March, in order to present the disputed new law? Well, we have seen that there has been a problem not only of delay in the containment measures, but of the purchase of material. They have been unable to buy enough material for our healthcare professionals and essential services in the past forty days. We are still aware today that one of the stocks of masks was five days in the Spanish hospitals, being defective, until you withdrew it, even having had a warning from the Autonomous Community of Aragon, now having to isolate thousands of health care workers for having subjected them to the risk of being able to lose their own lives. How is it possible to buy masks from companies convicted of bribery in underdeveloped countries? Also, how can we find out from the press, after having requested it in three parliamentary sessions, that the supplier who brought the defective tests was paid 7 million in commissions by the Spanish Government, which are now claiming them? Where are the results of these tests and seroprevalence? Do you think it's logical to come forty-five days later to say you're going to take a test? Where's the million test you do two Saturdays, in your Sunday homily, you said they were going to be done? Why not hang up the results as they hang up in the more developed countries? Are you not aware that only with massive tests can you descale, you can recover normality, you can go back to work without contagion being asymptomatic? Why are we talking about this forethought? Where are the Noah's arks that you posed and at six o'clock you rectified? Where are the computer applications that didn't even give the security of who managed the data? Or the most serious thing: what happened yesterday with the decontainment of the children? How can you tell us in the seat of national sovereignty that a decree of a Council of Ministers will be adapted by a minister in the middle of the weekend with a ministerial order? Do you know what legal certainty is? Can you come here to say that you are not going to comply with any legislation, and introduce us a decree, without notifying the party that has to approve you that you are going to let a minister limit our freedoms without even going through an extraordinary Council of Ministers, of those who have had even three in one week? His Government put propaganda before the management oxen. And don't say they have sinned of prudence, they are sinning of incompetence, and with our children you don't play, and with the health of the Spaniards neither. You can tell a family to hold their breath for a minute, but not an hour. I believe that the Spanish have already complied with everything they have been asked to do, but the government must begin to comply with them. In addition to health, there is the economic sphere in this crisis, and that is not where things are going well, that is also where the crisis is not symmetrical. The IMF has already said that Spain will be the worst country in the eurozone to emerge from this crisis. The Bank of Spain has said that, in the worst forecasts, we can fall by 13% in GDP, unemployment can reach 20% and public debt can go up to 122%, and the risk premium is already rising too much. The coronavirus has grown with the world's most incompetent governments. In Spain, production fell by 90%, in Germany by only 10%. And what did that cause? One million unemployed; to make you an idea, more than the whole city of Valencia has gone to unemployment. But every day there are an average of 100,000 Spaniards who have welcomed an ERTE; to make an idea, more than the whole city of Toledo, every day. And those Spaniards with an ERTE already represent 500,000 affected companies, 4 million workers who have not received an approved benefit in this House, which has been unpaid since 31 March! You talk about vulnerability, about leaving no one behind, but before we talk about minimum income, we're going to think that there are Spaniards who don't need that minimum income because they can get their benefit. I have to say that there are two ways of not leaving anyone behind: the first is that no one moves forward and the second is that we all move forward at the same time, and that is what we propose. Every day in Spain 6000 companies have been closed - closed, not hosted by ERTE - and that is why we ask for immediate liquidity. You promised EUR 200 billion a month ago; your Finance Minister said just six days ago that you had reached 4.7% of that aid in one month! How is it possible that the aid scheme in Spain accounts for only 11% of GDP and in Germany 60% of its GDP? And please take care of the sectors concerned. It is not acceptable for a Minister of Labour to give up the tourism and hospitality sector until December, which accounts for 13% of our gross domestic product. It is not acceptable to allow cars to be manufactured and dealers to be opened when it is an industry that accounts for 40% of industrial exports and, in addition, 11% of GDP and national employment. It is not acceptable for agriculture and livestock to be pending Community negotiations while farms have no one to sell their products to. It is not acceptable that health-care providers cannot be given an extra pay, as France has done, or that essential services - the police, the Civil Guard, the military, health-care professionals - cannot be given a gross salary, as we have been asking for a month. It is not a receipt that the heirs of these more than 22 000 killed by coronavirus on top have to pay the unjust inheritance tax with all that they have suffered. On the European Union, Mr Sánchez, do not seek scapegoats. The European Union is going to be very generous. The European Central Bank will buy up to EUR 120 billion of Spanish public debt by December. The EIB will contribute up to EUR 20 billion for Spain. The Commission's SURE programme can contribute another 10 000 and the MEDE up to 25 000. By the way, why do I have to know myself or why Spain has to know in the Italian Senate that you are considering going to the European rescue? Can you say in this House whether you are going to go to the MEDE programme, as the Italian Prime Minister said in the Senate yesterday? On the problem of financing Spain, it is not a question of prestige-country, it is a question of the credibility of its government, because the Community partners say that they cannot be trusted by a government that, growing to more than 2%, has doubled the deficit from 1.3 % to 2.7 %, which we know, because there are rumors that it can be more. I'd like you to explain it to us too. What cannot be done is that you have merged EUR 16 billion into the electoral decrees, to dodge two electoral campaigns, instead of now using those millions to fight the pandemic. The problem is that we will not know about propaganda, but we do know about managing economic crisis, and we must do so with competitiveness and flexibility, and that is why we have asked you to reduce tax, labour and bureaucratic costs and not to make populist exits from the crisis, as requested by your vice-president. Always remember Varoufakis and always remember how Tsipras ended. In the third area, we demand respect for democratic freedoms. Democracies die when unwritten standards begin to be violated. I've already recommended Ziblatt and Levitsky's book, How Democracies Die, and that's what's going on with this state of alarm. The COVID-19 only wins with masks, not with gags. Can you tell me why a Civil Guard general said he's pursuing disaffection by the government? It is not a lapsus, Minister, it is an e-mail written and addressed to the State Security Forces and Bodies. Can you tell me why an experienced minister as a former government spokesman says that negative messages against government management must be avoided? We demand that you stop restricting the freedom of citizens on social networks and do not use the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Civil Guard for these purposes; too much suffered this body in the 1990s with you as to tarnish your untold public trajectory. We do not want to be Winston Smith against Grand Brother, Mr Sánchez, and I ask you to explain to us why the CIS was asking whether we should limit official sources for information about this crisis and why Spanish Television indoctrinates our children by criticizing former presidents of my party's government, or why you have members of the government who threaten private media, or why you are playing with the public budget discretionaryly for other media. What kind of media omertà do you intend to cover up your mistakes? It is paradoxical that they want to decriminalize the insults to the Crown while they want to penalize the criticisms of their Government, and that is why I ask you, as I did in person, to reactivate the portal of transparency and to hang there the minutes of the experts, who, since they play politicians, applaud themselves and give us lessons of decency, will have to have control and be accountable to the nation as we politicians do. Mr Sánchez, much has been said about pacts these days. I told you yesterday that the party leading the opposition has already made its great pact of state, which has also been the most generous that the opposition to the Government in the democratic history of Spain has given: more than Aznar to González in the Toledo Pact, more than Zapatero to Aznar in the Anti-Terrorism Pact, more than Rajoy to Zapatero in the Article 135 Pact, more than you to Mariano Rajoy in the Article 155 Agreement. We have supported him in the most drastic measure of the history of democracy: the state of alarm. You are the president of our history with more exceptional powers, and you are also the one invested with less electoral support. We have given you everything you have asked of us; we have been more loyal than your own partners, who once again leave you to abstain in the state of alarm, but you have not answered anything I raised before yesterday and during these days to support this new decree. Is that the spirit of covenant and dialogue, from the heart, with which you want to respond to our generosity by supporting these measures, which are also quite inconcrete, in the new decree? We have only asked him to be effective in managing, transparency in accountability and humility in asking for forgiveness for his mistakes. None of that has been achieved. You can't pretend to be part of the orchestra while this ship sinks. We support him to save lives, not to ruin Spain, and that is why we have focused on the urgent measures of shock, renouncing the sadistic trap of that reconstruction table, because for us we cannot rebuild Spain with those parties that every day say they want to destroy it, because the only table of all the Spaniards is the Parliament, because what can not be done is to pose a table with their investiture partners as if it were the representation of all the Spanish people and because it cannot be imposed on the opposition a government programme covered in a reconstruction programme. That is why I think it is very good that you have accepted our proposal to create a committee in Congress, in which we can discuss and adopt measures for the recovery of national prosperity, with light and stenographers, with the proportionality that the mandate of the ballot boxes gave to each party, open to experts, social actors and the sectors concerned. You have not referred to it today; I imagine it will be a lapse, because you have continued to talk about the extraparliamentary table. I hope it's that and not another bandage. In addition, I proposed to activate the General Commission of the Autonomous Communities in order to be able to discuss with the Presidents of the Autonomous Communities the measures of their competence, such as health care, social care, minimum incomes, which are already giving EUR 1500 million to 700 000 families, aid to businesses and self-employed people - hence the EIB's funds - which are already being done by the communities of Madrid, Castile and León, Andalusia and Murcia, or the processing of ERTE. For example, with the funds of the SURE, autonomy can be supported in its measures, as the Xunta of Galicia has done by endorsing the recovery to those affected by the ERTE of its payrolls. And it can also reactivate the Local Entities Commission, also of the Senate, to be able to speak with all the municipalities represented there and to use its single window for the processing of these actions in the face of the collapse of the central services.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u9	Mr. Married, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u10	I'm finishing up, Madam President. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I chair a party that has ruled Spain for fifteen years, a party that governs six autonomous communities and thousands of municipalities, a party that not only leads the opposition, but is the political alternative in Spain. That is why I want to end up sending a message of hope to all Spaniards, telling them that there is light at the end of that tunnel that your Government cannot get out of. Not only does this crisis come out resisting, confined at home, putting music and clapping out, as it seems you're thinking. Following the warlike similitude, he can't stand being in a shelter while the bombings fall. This crisis must be backed up by effective measures by the Government, and that is why I want to tell the Spaniards today that we support this state of alarm so that you can govern with firmness and determination, so that you can escort this pandemic once after forty-five days of inefficiency. I want to remember, in particular, the generation of the elderly, frightened that this virus is being rehearsed, a generation that made the transition, a generation that saved us from economic crises and that now deserves all respect and protection. I ask for maximum severity for those public officials who have discriminated against them in health care in an absolutely indecent way. And I also want to address young people, a generation that has barely known the good times of Spain, a generation with which unemployment is gnawing. In March alone, half of unemployment hit children under the age of thirty-five. Our obligation, that of that generation, is to bring forward this country, without demagogic solutions, which we end up paying dearly, without responsibilities derived from the public authorities, but with guaranteed opportunities. We don't want gifts with our own money; we want effective and honest management to get jobs back; we don't want fear, we want trust; we don't want dependence, we want freedom; we don't want a shield to hide behind us; we want a safe path on which we can all move. Paraphrasing Maura, he won't be there for me. Today we are fulfilling our part: renewing an exceptional measure to contain that tragedy in lives and jobs. Now you must fulfill your part, take advantage of this confidence to govern at the service of all Spaniards. The fate of the nation is in the hands of every compatriot, but the way out of this crisis depends on ours. I've already given mine to him. Take advantage of these fifteen more days because the patience of the Spaniards has a limit. Until then, there is nothing to celebrate or applaud; more than 20,000 dead compatriots deserve our respect, our tribute and our mourning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Rocío. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the third time we are being summoned by the Government to extend the state of alarm, decreed on 14 March. At that time in Spain there were 196 people killed by the Wuhan virus and just over 6,000 infected. Today, 22 April - according to official data - more than 20,000 people have died and there are 200,000 infected in our country, although without any test no one believes any of the data you give us, not those of the dead, not those of the infected, not those of the recovered. From 14 March to 22 April, the Government has undoubtedly been responsible for the worst health management of this pandemic in the world, and they know it even in Australia. And he hasn't even been able to honor the dead with official mourning. But, of course, how are you going to honor the victims, gentlemen of the Government, if you have made more effort to hide them than to protect them. Because everyone already knows - in Spain and outside Spain - that the deaths are many thousands more than that told us by Mr Simón, the head specialist of the government, who is still in his position, who told us not so long ago, ladies and gentlemen, that in our country there would be few cases because - and I read literally - the coronavirus is transmitted little between people. We will know the total number of dead before or after and the Spaniards will pay them due tribute. And we will also do them justice, because no one doubts that diligent management - concerned to provide solutions, not propaganda - would have saved the lives of thousands of compatriots. Mr Sánchez, the state of alarm that you want to extend today was intended to safeguard public health and for that reason you have been given special powers. Today, its failure in all orders is tragically evident and it comes to us to ask, with this new extension of the state of alarm, for absolute power for the Minister of Health, for the minister who has absolutely failed. You have not been able to protect our health care providers, but, yes, you have put a lot of effort into protecting yourself, even using the State Security Forces to detect and scare the Spaniards who criticize their horrific management, who are accused of causing stress and social alarm. Let's see if you understand that what generates stress and social alarm, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, is not the sympathizers of VOX or the Spaniards who criticize them on social networks, what generates stress and social alarm is the number of dead, it is the destruction of our economy and it is the totalitarian drift of your Government. Because you are unable to distribute masks, but you feel very capable of trying to gag all Spaniards. Because you have been unable to get tests to rank between infected, healthy and immune, but you are very capable of classifying the Spaniards according to those who are willing to applaud this government, to applaud their sectarianism, and to those who are unwilling to do so. Because you have been unable, in the end, to end this massive house arrest, but some seem to feel very capable of turning Spain into a gigantic chavista prison that works with rations. Mr. Sánchez, every time you go up to this rostrum or take up television on your 'Aló Presidente' program, you have done nothing but lie, deceive, hide, confuse; in short, manipulate reality. You do it with an aplom that admires me, I confess. As when fifteen days ago he came up to this rostrum with a report from the University of Oxford whose reading or interpretation - the one you did - was catalogued as a bubble, a fake; that is, as a lie even by his accomplices of the verifying agencies, the censoring agencies that have had to hide a little bit on this occasion. As our European partners know this reality because they can access more information than our subsidised televisions give, the fact that you represent us in Brussels seriously penalises the possibility that Europe will grant Spain the aid that Spain deserves and needs. And that is another reason why I have been asking you to leave, Mr Sánchez, to save more lives, to save more jobs and to save even the Constitution and democracy threatened by your government partners. For all that, you have to leave. We urgently need someone to come to Brussels to demand that the billion euros that the Commission has committed to the ecological transition be devoted in the next decade to alleviating the horrific consequences of this pandemic. Now we do not need announcements from the Greta girl or other misguided progress, such as campaigns in gender ideology or supremacist feminism; what we need is money to save lives, to save jobs and to protect our threatened freedoms. I therefore ask you again to order the payment of the full remuneration of both self-employed and wage earners in the months of March, April and May before resigning. It can and must be done, to put an end to the anguish of millions of compatriots, of millions of families and to keep alive the productive fabric of our country. Stop talking about reconstruction and avoid destruction, which is something you can still do, although it seems that your government partners are more committed to allowing everything to be destroyed and then hand over their income and rationing cards. Of course, avoiding such destruction would ruin the plans of Mr. Iglesias and his separatist partners, who claim the ruin of Spain, either to assault power or to impose their criminal regimes. We have seen during these days the not-so-old video of its vice president, in which he said that we had to take advantage of exceptional moments to implement communism. This is literal and in that we are, in a moment of exceptionality and you with a vice president and a partner who is only thinking of advancing your ideological agenda. To this proposal to pay the payrolls and the others we have made, we have not received a reply from the Government during all these weeks. You have intended to make the Spaniards believe that this disaster was inevitable and that from the ruin that you have brought only you will bring us out. That is why, as I said before, they have been more concerned to protect themselves from the truth and criticism than to protect the sick, the health care workers and the Spaniards. You must know, gentlemen of the Government, that at least this parliamentary group will not be silenced by you, however much you touch your mouth or your forehead with your finger, silently warn or threaten fear. By now, they should have learned that neither with reports nor with media persecutions nor with the cuckoo manners of the Bolivarian banana republic will be able to silence this parliamentary group. Because, Mr Marlaska, we have the right to speak, we have the right to speak in this rostrum, we have the right to speak on the street and we have the right to speak on social media, whether you like it or not. We have the right and obligation as public representatives to say that you are a fraud and a calamity that has filled Spain with invisible coffins, tombs bleached by your bodies of agitation and propaganda. Mr Sánchez, democracy is based, among other things, on the fact that the opposition can tell citizens that the government is doing it wrong and that of course creates disaffection for the government. Are you going to ban democracy, Mr. Marlaska? Are you going to ban the exercise of opposition? Will they continue to trample, with their authoritarian orders, on freedom of expression and information? You have ordered the Civil Guard - who has confessed it, and that has been the lapsus -, surely also the Police, the Prosecutor's Office - as we already know - and probably the intelligence services, to monitor, that is, to monitor the opposition on social networks, to identify the defects. They have tried to frighten Spanish society with uniforms - to which Spanish society has a great affection - in the purest style of the teachers of Mr. Iglesias: Castro, Maduro and Chávez. For his sole responsibility, Mr Sánchez, as well as facing death and ruin, Spain faces the greatest attack on fundamental freedoms that our democracy has suffered. That's our truth, ladies and gentlemen. But, unlike you, we do not want to impose it on you. What we will do is bring the evidence before the courts and the Spanish so that, when the time comes, the ballot boxes and the judges will issue the verdict. That is the difference between this Member and his Government that I am going to remain loyal to my oath to Spain, to the Constitution, to the parliamentary monarchy and to the fundamental freedoms that the Government intends to trample. Mr Sánchez, you told us today that this general confinement will not end until there is no risk. It has left the Spaniards, once again, without horizon or before the horizon of a state of permanent alarm. You have again become the spokesman for uncertainty today, and that does generate stress and social alarm for the Spaniards, and that uncertainty is a problem for our economy, as everyone knows. Mr Sánchez, you will not be surprised if I tell you that you will not count on our vote to continue accumulating a power of which you are not worthy. Because you, Mr. Sánchez, appointed Vice President Calvo to manage this pandemic, and the vice president, whom we wish for an early recovery, said that 8M had to go out on the street, although some of her companions wore gloves and privileged information in their bags. Because you, Mr Sánchez, granted powers over the residences of elders to Vice-President Iglesias and residences have become an indescribable horror, authentic gulags where the number of dead is not even known. Because you, Mr. Sánchez, instructed Mr. Illa to lead the health response to the pandemic and our health care providers have died more than anywhere else in the world, and they are still dying because they do not have the proper protective measures, and the tests that they arrive do not work, and the masks that you deliver are defective and have caused hundreds of health care providers to be quarantined, and we will find out sooner than later - it seems that some data has already been known - who have been those intermediaries who do not want to reveal. I continue, Mr Sánchez, to explain to you why you are not going to count on our vote, because our decision is not capricious and obeys very serious reasons. Because you, Mr. Sánchez, commissioned the Ministers of Labour and Economics... Well, I don't really know what I'm dealing with, because they've done nothing but aggravate the ruin and threaten millions of Spaniards with misery. You also commissioned Mr. Redondo to make a plan for decontainment, and we are the only country that has kept children locked up so far. We are told that yesterday they have rectified everything running, because they could go to the supermarket, that is, to the outbreaks of contagion, but they could not run outdoors. They have now also left adolescents, children of fourteen, fifteen, sixteen and seventeen years old, in limbo, who cannot even walk their younger brothers and help their parents. Because you, Mr. Sánchez, commissioned Mr. Garzón, another communist from the hall, to do something to earn his salary and he thought nothing but insult Christians in Holy Week. And then he came to give us the very important information... Yes, you haven't heard because you haven't felt offended and that's why you raise your eyebrows, but see what tweets Mr. Garzón puts joking about the movies you have to watch in Holy Week. And then he came to give us the important news that sports bets had come down. Finally, it has led to a shortage of masks trying to control prices and to the loss of Spanish entrepreneurs who want to bring them from abroad. In Hungary, that country which kicked the communists out, there was no need to control the price: the Government had sent masks to all households. And there are more reasons for our vote, Mr Sánchez. Because you, Mr Sánchez, instructed Mr Marlaska to ensure public order and citizens' rights, and Mr Marlaska has ordered the greatest attack on freedom of expression in democracy. And now it has the facsimile to hide behind the uniforms of our beloved State Security Forces and Corpses and to get them out there to claim their service sheet, which we all applaud, but the service sheet of a general or of those of whom we have been in the Basque Country is not a patent of course to do anything, Your Honor. No, Mr Marlaska, it is not for us to be told that we place the State Security Forces and Bodies in a bad place; it is for the members of your Government. We weren't the ones who applauded when cops were kicked; it was their vice president, who was running a TV show and literally said he was excited at the time. It is to his accomplices of investiture, who have applauded for a very long time even the murders of civilian guards, police and military; it is not to us who have to give us any lessons regarding the State Security Forces and Corpses. If you want to teach support to the uniformed, tell the members of your Government, tell the investiture accomplices, but first you apply it to them, Mr.Marlaska, because giving illegal orders undermines the honor of our Security Forces and Bodies. And if you have given the order to pursue the opposition and the shortcomings of this new regime that you intend to impose, know that we will not rest until you sit on the bench and you have to explain it to one of your former colleagues. In short, Mr Sánchez, we do not give you our vote because you, Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, have become a danger to life, to health and to the economic well-being and freedoms of the Spaniards. Because you, Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, have buried tens of thousands of Spaniards, and I say that you have buried them because many families have not yet been able to do so. But what I do assure you is that you will not be able to bury your memory, your memory, even if you refuse abjectly to give them the grief they deserve. Mr. Sánchez and Mr. Iglesias, pay the payroll and leave. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u13	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Echenique Robba has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. I always start my interventions remembering that we are living in a terrible moment, we are living the worst epidemic in a hundred years in this country, and I want to start today by sending a hug, all our affection and our condolences to the families and friends of the people who died in Spain from the coronavirus. After listening to the last two speeches, I want to start by saying that I believe that the best way to honor and respect the dead is also to respect and honour the parliamentary debate in this House and not to use the rostrum to say barbarities. I want to start by saying that the best way to honor and respect the dead is not to devote two minutes to responding to what things we have been able to hear. I want to start by saying that the best way to honor and respect the dead is to work, to make proposals and to have constructive discussions, and that is what I will try to do in my speech. As I say, we are living in a terrible situation, it is well known to all, but I think that we can also say with caution that in the last few days, that in the last few weeks we have been able to see hopeful data, data that allow, with caution, to harbour some hope. A very significant fact is how we have seen the relative rates of daily increase of confirmed cases of more than 40% at the beginning of the state of alarm drop to around 2% these days, and that having passed, as Dr. Simon explained these days, from two hundred thousand PCR tests a week to seven hundred thousand PCR tests in the last week. Still increasing the number of tests almost four times, we continue to see how the curve of newly infected confirmed is folded. We think, as I say, that these are hopeful facts and that they are due to three fundamental reasons. The first, the speed of the government, although some do not want to recognize it, declared the confinement before countries such as France, Italy, the United States or the United Kingdom, since we had the first deceased in Spain. Secondly, another reason why these data allow us to harbour the hope that we are seeing in the last few days is the performance of the health care providers, the State Security Forces and Corpses, of all the people who are helping us to control this epidemic and cope with it. At this point, I would like to thank, not as a member of a parliamentary group that supports the Government, but as a citizen of my country, the technical team headed by Dr. Simon, for all the work they are doing, because they are leaving their skin to fight this epidemic. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, the data we are seeing in the last few days is obviously due to the enormous responsibility that our society is showing. All the mobility data that one can study indicates that we are one of the countries whose citizenship has followed the guidelines of the health authorities with greater discipline and responsibility. Mr President, you have heard me say from this rostrum the position of our parliamentary group, which is often cautious, on going too fast in measures of flexibility of confinement. With the same clarity, I want to tell you today that we think we are on the right track, that we think the government is making the right decisions and that things are going well. But it is also true that the war against the coronavirus has not ended, it is evident: every day we have, unfortunately, about 400 new deaths; every day we still, unfortunately, have about 4000 new confirmed infected. That is why it is clear that we must continue with the state of alarm until we can reach what has been called descalada. There is no doubt that we must continue with the confinement, and that is why our parliamentary group is going to vote in favour of extending the state of alarm. I also believe that a fundamental part of the state of alarm is the protection of the economy of families or workers, the self-employed and the productive fabric, and that is why I wanted briefly to address this issue as well. The effects of health do not distinguish from social classes, the coronavirus does not distinguish from social classes, but the economic effects of the pandemic do distinguish from social classes, and I think that at this time when we are talking about agreements to rebuild the country the important thing is to talk about the contents and objectives of those agreements. We will agree, Mr President, that there are at least three objectives. The first, let us not leave anyone behind; you yourself have said it many times. The second, that the costs of this economic crisis do not pay the usual ones. And the third, let the rebound of our economy be as powerful and as fast as possible. I believe that a good compass to report on these reconstruction agreements, a good compass to achieve these objectives is what has been done so far, and I wanted to make it clear in this intervention. The Spanish Government is doing quite the opposite of what was done in the previous economic crisis. Thousands of families were evicted in the previous crisis; in this crisis the Government has banned evictions. In the previous economic crisis, thousands of families were cut off from light, gas and water; in this crisis, the Government has banned supply cuts. In the previous crisis, dismissal was facilitated; in this crisis, the Government has protected employment through ERTE and has prohibited dismissal using the coronavirus as an objective cause of dismissal. Today, in this crisis, a self-employed person who has a bar and is in difficulty can benefit from the activity termination benefit, can ask for a moratorium on the payment of the mortgage or in the payment of the rent, also of the social security contribution; can benefit from the electric social bonus; can see how their workers are protected by the regulations of the ERTE; can obtain a postponement in the payment of their taxes and can obtain financing at low interest rates through the ICO. The comparison with the previous crisis is clear: in the previous crisis a self-employed man who had a bar had none of these possibilities because we had spent all the money on rescuing the bank. The Government of Spain has objectively raised a social shield that is formidable. No one has said that today, but today it is 100 days of the Government of Spain. Today, a hundred days ago, the first coalition government was formed in our country's recent history since the restoration of democracy. And, one hundred days after the formation of this government, I want to say again from this rostrum that I am proud of the government we have right now and that, moreover, I am sure that there are millions of Spaniards outside this House who are also. While it is rigorous to recognize this, because it is so, I also believe that with humility it is necessary to acknowledge that many things remain to be done, and allow me to point out some, Mr President; they are just a few examples. Some aid needs to be extended; it is being found that some people cannot ask for aid because they do not meet them, and I believe that we have to study it regularly, and I am aware that the Government is doing so. Some problems are being detected with the bogus self-employed, the riders, the distributors, because their companies do not recognize them as workers and do not give them the PPE, do not give them the personal protective equipment, and that must also be studied. Vulnerable people are suffering more than anyone else, and that is why we are asking you from my parliamentary group, Mr President, that we speed up as much as possible the implementation of the minimum living income, which we think is very important. And, lastly, migrants in irregular or asylum-free situations must also be protected. I think our country has to do the opposite of what Mr Trump announced these days. I think our country has to be decent. Imagine, Mr President, whether it is difficult for a Spaniard or a person who has a residence permit to cope with this crisis, which has to be for a mother who queues to ask for food and who, at the same time, is terrified because they can ask for the papers. Recently, at an OECD meeting, Minister Escriva said that immigration is not only a humanitarian problem, it is an opportunity for our growth and for the sustainability of the pension system. Our group fully agrees with these words of the minister. In fact, this is a general principle behind the measures of the social shield, and we hope that they will be reached in the country's reconstruction agreements: protecting the economy of working people and fulfilling human rights. Doing decent politics, in addition to decent politics, is good for the economy. It is very easy to understand this maxim: our country depends to a large extent on domestic consumption, like almost all OECD economies, and there is no better way for companies to go well, for the productive fabric to go well, for people to have money in their pockets. So far, so far, so far what the Government has done in recent weeks and what we think should focus on the most immediate work and also what we think should report on the reconstruction agreements that are under way. But I do not want to end without referring to the agreements in Europe and the European Council tomorrow. The agreements that have been reached so far in the Eurogroup, approximately half a billion euros, as you have commented, in MEDE credits, in European Investment Bank endorsements and in funds for ERTE, basically, are necessary, it is obvious, but they are clearly insufficient, and this is also obvious, first of all, because, despite being a lot of money, this does not have a macro effect, it is not able to have a macro effect. And secondly, because the three mechanisms - as you explained in the initial intervention - involve indebtedness of the Member States. Clearly, the solidarity content of these three mechanisms is zero. That is why we welcome - and I have to tell you this too - the Spanish position, the non-paper which was published earlier this week and which you are going to take to the European Council tomorrow. We think from my group that this is a courageous proposal that is on the right track, that it is going far beyond what has been done so far in the Eurogroup and that it is going far beyond what has recently been adopted in the European Parliament, for a number of reasons which you have also commented on and which I would like to touch again. It is a quantified proposal; EUR 1.5 billion is about 10% of the European Union's gross domestic product. This can have a macro effect, this can allow us to get out of the crisis in a more powerful way. Secondly, because it is a direct transfer to the Member States and does not involve massive indebtedness from the Member States, it is therefore a radically opposed solution to the one taken in the previous crisis. And, thirdly, because it would be subject to criteria for affecting countries: either health criteria, or economic criteria for falling GDP, for falling employment. As I say, we believe that this is a courageous position which points out that the current Government of Spain is very different from the previous governments we have had in our country and also very different from the governments of other European countries. Having said that, I would like to point out two points on which we believe that we could go a little further on the position that the Spanish Government will take to the European Council tomorrow. Firstly, with regard to making this fund available to the Member States on 1 January 2021, we think it may be too late. We believe that at least part - and we ask the government to be able to work in that direction - should be made available earlier, because we think that in summer or autumn Spain may already need these funds. Secondly, with regard to the multiannual financial framework, we believe that there are countries that want to reduce the European budget, but the European budget is the only tool of solidarity, of redistribution of wealth between countries, and we are aware that the position of the Spanish Government is towards a more solidarity and more cohesive Europe. The European Commission's 2018 proposal that the Union's budget should be 1.1 % of gross domestic product seems modest to us. We understand that there are countries that would want to reduce it; I think our country should want to increase it. I understand that what is being taken is a negotiating position, but I would like to point this out.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u15	Mr. Echenique, you'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u16	Yeah, I'm done. Know, Mr President, that you will count on our support in tomorrow's negotiation. We hope that the Spanish position or some similar position will come forward because the European Union is facing a historic decision. You can continue to bet on unsolidar and false fables and a little xenophobic - if I may - like that of the cigarette and the ant, like that of living above our possibilities or that of moral risk. You can continue to bet on failed recipes, such as austerity, or you can have a more supportive exit that will make a stronger Europe, that will make a more united Europe. Mr President, do not allow the alleged ants to re-despite the mechanisms of solidarity with the ordo-liberal cancamuse of moral risk. Moral risk is having tax havens within the European Union like Holland. The moral risk in this crisis is selfishness and'save who can'. The moral virtue in this crisis is 'not leaving anyone behind', and besides moral virtue is better for the economy, it is better for Spain and it is better for Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum used by Mr. Echenique Robba]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u18	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. I begin with two previous and forced responses to the interventions of the People's Party and VOX. The first is for Mr. Married. I've heard you say you don't know anything about propaganda. I understand you forget about Urdaci. I also heard him attack again on 8 March. I understand that they continue to use a virus to make anti-feminist politics or discourse. I ask you, please, to stop doing this. The second answer is for VOX. I have heard Mr Abascal say that it is wrong to regulate the prices of masks because so there are entrepreneurs who do not get involved in the sale. Is that patriotic? Is it too patriotic to say that's wrong, to regulate the price of masks? I don't know much about patriotism, but I'd say no. Today I will speak again about now and tomorrow, but above all about tomorrow, so let me go directly and briefly to detail our position in the now. We again abstain in this further extension of the state of alarm that they pose, a abstention, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, closer to not ever, and we do so for the rest of our lives, because it is neither new nor corrects the mistakes of the last month. Mainly there are three: the first, the perverse balance between health and economy that they continue to maintain, obviating that without health there is no economy, obviating that without health there is nothing; if capital is absolutely nothing without work, everything - everything - is absolutely nothing without life. And, in that perverse dichotomy between the economy or life in which they enter, so-called non-essential jobs simply become non-essential and therefore non-essential people. From our point of view, it's terrible. We repeat this once again: it makes no sense that with thousands of infections every day you can't go to a wake, but you can go to work by subway; it doesn't make any sense that an adult can go for tobacco, but a child can't go to play; it doesn't make any sense that people can keep asking for burgers for Deliveroo, but that they can't bury their parents. It doesn't make any sense. Well, only one, it only makes one sense: that you are handling with one hand the virus data and the other the phone of the employer. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, they listened to us with the easing of the surplus of the municipalities, they listened to us with the guaranteed minimum income, they listened to us with the departure of boys and girls and they listened to us with the reduction of VAT on social and health material. Pay attention now: don't open your hand. Of the six conditions of the WHO to open the confinement, to make the confinement more flexible, Spain does not meet one. There's only one thing worse than a confinement: two confinements. Open your hand, let's head off. Second mistake: re-centralizing opportunism. You will deny it ten times and we will repeat it ten times more. From the zero minute of this crisis they have opted for order and command and bunkerization at many times. We say this clearly: recentralisation exacerbates the situation. The most centralist country and the most federal country in Europe, two examples, France and Germany: the single command from the Elisha or the socialization of decision-making power in sixteen Länder result in 18 000 and 4000 deaths, respectively. I repeat, recentralization aggravates the situation, and it is neither nationalism nor ethnicism nor chauvinism, it is pure and simple efficiency. No Administration knows the terrain better than the local, the municipal and the autonomous; it is much better known what is needed and what happens in Sabadell, Cáceres or Vitoria from an office in Sabadell, Cáceres or Vitoria than from an office in a ministry in Madrid. The state of national alarm could and should give way to the asymmetric territorial management of the alarm. Only a surgical and millimetric treatment of this crisis will get us out of this crisis, and that is because the autonomous communities have already regained their respective competences. What is good, ladies and gentlemen, for La Latina is not good for Oiartzun, and what is good for Prats de Lluçanès is not good for El Cabanyal. Third mistake, communication. And this really goes for everyone. What do you think normal people think when they hear us, what do you think normal people think when they see us on press conferences, especially you? Let's try to be normal communicating, please, because it's so abnormal to see in the morning a man in uniform talking about the oranges he's stolen I don't know who in the I don't know where to see in the afternoon a man in a suit doing conspiracy numerology of how many masks they've sent; it's just as abnormal. We ask them, we ask them all, to be normal because neither a military uniform, nor a black tie, nor a reddish-to-medium pole, nor a republican tricolor, nor a stellate cure the COVID-19. Believe me, the revolutionary thing today is to be normal in front of a microphone and that's because they don't communicate military or fanatics, but experts and politicians. Two examples. The first: it's very good to fight the bubbles, very good; it's very good to fight the 'bulocracy', but hearing a Jemad say it personally is scary, scary. If they put the fox to watch the chickens, he'll eat them. And the second example: letting children out is not to let their parents accompany them to the errands, it is to establish a plan, as the Generalitat has done, and specifically the Salutary Council, of slots established by ages and zones of play enabled and controlled for it. You announce and rectify, announce and rectify, and that's not communicating, that's alarming and confusing. I remind you of something, especially to you, Mr President: Churchill won the war and two months later he lost the elections simply because he did not know how to communicate it. Tomorrow; let's talk about tomorrow. If it is difficult to interpret the past, it is even more difficult to predict the future, but our obligation as politicians is to know how to foresee scenarios even at the risk of making mistakes, getting ahead and providing solutions; getting ahead and providing solutions. And, with all due respect, whoever doesn't like this, who only likes to hear immobile dogmas, go to Mass. So let's talk about tomorrow, let's answer the now. Today, here, the Republican Group and this spokesman once again propose a comprehensive pact for life based on leadership here and there, outside and inside, comprehensive pact for life outside. The coronavirus will leave more poor than dead. I repeat, the coronavirus will leave more poor than dead, an annual fall in GDP of 10% and an unemployment of over 20%, the biggest economic hammering in eighty years, and we must say so. There is already a whole lost generation that has had to constantly postpone their lives between the twenty - during the financial crisis of 2008 - and the thirty - during the health crisis of 2020 - and this time the 'tourism does not fail' will not be worth, the coastal economies based on the services and the brick will hit it as never before, the ERTE will end up being ERE and the ERE will end up being closures; as hard as real. But our greatest enemy will not be the virus or the misery that will come, ladies and gentlemen, our greatest enemy will be greed, hatred and indifference that it will entail. Even harder and even more real: there will be no worse asymptomatic than the asymptomatic of poverty, misery and other people's pain. In the future, the temptation for the depredation of man as a wolf of man, for the salvation of anyone who can, will be enormous. The temptation to listen to the Orbán, the Trumps and the Abascals will be enormous, and it is our duty as public representatives to say, repeat and defend how many times it takes that what makes us human is not individual decisions, but the sum of collective decisions for the protection of the other, and that of them one prevails above all: public health. What made us human, ladies and gentlemen, it wasn't the fire or the wheel, it was the urge to protect and save the other. If this crisis in today comes out with test, test and test, in the morning it will come out with the public, the public and the public, and above all with a conviction, that the public must never, ever again, be linked to the speculative. In the face of estimates of a fall in GDP of 10% or 15%, there is only one solution, as ambitious as it is necessary: a profound tax reform based on a courageous wealth tax, a tax on courageous financial wealth and a tax on courageous financial transactions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I do not ask you to be very left-wing, I ask you to be very brave. Spain is the fourth largest economy in the euro area. The number of millionaires has multiplied by five in ten years. On the other hand, Spain is the third most unequal country in the European Union. How do you eat this? How do you eat? Because wealth in a few hands not only does not generate economic efficiency, but also poses a direct threat to the freedom of citizens. That GDP is falling does not necessarily mean that the standard of living is falling. There's something called fair distribution of wealth. That today a mask worth 20 euros in a pharmacy is not called misfortune, it is called a system, a system that allows the least possess everything and the most possess absolutely nothing. A pandemic has had to come to realize that we are not anti-system, but that the system was anti-us. And if a democracy is based on the criterion that the majority of money - and not the democratic majority - must prevail, it simply ceases to be a democracy, and to whom all this sounds trumped up is wrong. Leo: Redistribution should be placed on the agenda, the privileges of the richest should be questioned; policies hitherto considered eccentric, such as basic income or wealth taxation, should begin to be considered. This is the editorial of last week's little suspect Financial Times. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not that the Financial Times writing this, it's not that De Guindos defending a minimum income, it's not that the IMF talking about inequality, it's not that the neoliberals in the face of crises, all of them, become Marxists, it's that they just know perfectly well how the world works that they have created and they know perfectly well that this world is sinking as never before and that there are only three solutions: expansive fiscal policies, massive government-funded and government-induced consumerism and the issuance of debt bonds specific to central banks. Europe must rise to the challenge and mobilize unprecedented resources. Debt must be pooled. The European Union must be fiscal union and social union. And Catalonia, Spain, France, Italy and Portugal must become an indissoluble axis in the fight for no conditionality in the transfer of European aid. Says a distinguished Europarliamentary called Oriol Junqueras that we are independent of Spain, federalists of Europe and internationalists of the world, and if we are, it is simply because we want to contribute to making them a reference point for human, social and civil rights. Let no one come again with the 'you have lived above your possibilities'. If this crisis catches us without breathers in hospitals and without masks in pharmacies it is simply because of privatizations imposed by northern Europe, by - de facto - tax havens like Holland, applauded, on the other hand, by very patriotic patriots in this House. Our deficit is the German surplus and that is what we have to say.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u19	Mr. Rufián, I'd have to finish please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u20	I'm done, Madam President. We also propose a comprehensive pact for life within them. Blindness and political and institutional autism are leading to absurdities such as competing for the purchase of socio-health material. We need to establish mechanisms of mutual recognition, collaboration and institutional agreement that allow things, Mr President, such as returning to the Bureau for dialogue and negotiation. From our point of view, we need to talk about life, but we also need to talk about politics. If we want to open up a new time, let's really open it up. They have already done that 'this does not touch' with the commission of inquiry of the emeritus, do not do it now with the Bureau of Dialogue and Negotiation. Mr President, I would urge you here to reconvene the Bureau for Dialogue and Negotiation as soon as the state of alarm is over and, in any case, no later than June of this year. Politics, politics and politics; the public, the public and the public. And an idea to start with all this: republic, republics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u21	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Rincón. Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u22	Thank you very much. It is the first day that I intervene face-to-face after the suspension of ordinary activity, because so far from Junts per Catalunya, following the scientific, security and government directions, we have worked through telematic tools, registering and presenting more than a hundred parliamentary initiatives, among which, by the way, is the urgent reform of the Rules of Procedure to make Congress a fully 21st century parliament. Technology allows it, but its political will does not. And first of all I would like to wish that both your family members, Mr President, and the Vice-President and the ministers, as well as the other Members who also gave positive by coronavirus, are well. I take the opportunity to join in the expressions of pain and send our deepest condolences to family and friends who cannot even say goodbye to their close friends, as well as an indispensable and always insufficient gratitude to all the workers whose activity is fundamental, placing a special emphasis on health professionals and emergencies, who take care of us day by day risking their own lives. Today we will vote for the third extension of the alarming alarm decree of 14 March, a day on which you proclaimed yourself solemnly: this virus does not understand territories or ideologies; we will only go forward together. So change your advertisers, because what has been shown to be this virus is that we stop it not united, but separated, with the social distancing measures demanded by the experts. And I don't know about territories, but what's clear is that the virus does mean efficient or inefficient governments. And what has not made any distinctions between the thousands affected have been the effects of the decisions that the Spanish Government has made - or has not made -. I would remind you that before the state of alarm was decided, a series of measures had already been ordered in Catalonia for the suspension of activities, the closure of shops, including the territorial confinement of Igualada and the Conca d'Odena. The lack of forecast by the Government of Spain was the prologue of its own inability to react to this day. They have not been quick reacting, but reactionary have been the measures they have taken, and they are not intended to combat the health emergency, but they run the risk of making the already fragile Spanish democracy sick even more. Look, when they didn't know what to do yet, they chose the worst decisions: to re-centralize and requisition medical material, rather than quickly distribute it at a time when human lives are available; to terminate competences in favour of a competent authority that has demonstrated its manifest incompetence, and to disregard the requests of the scientific community and those of whom we acted before and wanted to act even more severely demanding total confinement, the only certainty against contagion. The reality shows that this situation requires decentralization, empowerment and responsibility, not gags, propaganda and applause - that you now applaud yourselves on the press conferences -. Well, the most progressive government in Spain's history is making the management of the most reactionary coronavirus in Europe: with war terminology, with castrense press conferences, with censorship of criticism of the government, police abuses, a health loapa. Their management of the crisis has been marked by the fact that they decreed the confinement late and evil and now they will decree the decontainment soon and worse. To confine ourselves they wanted to convince us that the viruses did not understand territory, while now to delimit it turns out that yes: the descaled confinement will be asymmetrical, said last Saturday. Welcome to logic! And now we suggest you take one more step in that good direction and allow each territory to manage the process because, where is your decontainment plan? Do you already have it? I bring you today - I will give it to you - the one who has prepared Dr Oriol Mitjà, who has advised Andorra, for example, that it can already say that they have zero infections. Your obsession with centralizing management already sees where it leads us, so don't make a mistake again. Right now, as I said, I must be being monitored because it has become clear to us that the Civil Guard aims to minimize the climate against the government's management of the crisis. However, our mission is to tell you everything we don't like about your management, which, with all due respect, is clearly better. Starting by clarifying and, where appropriate, debugging responsibilities now that it has transcended that different fake accounts supported government measures, as well as a mail asking for the identification of lies and misinformation that could generate social stress and institutional disaffection. Well, look, what generates stress and disaffection - no longer institutional, but democratic - is that these orders exist and that they are such hypocrites chasing fakes that, on the other hand, feed. The Chief of Staff's sincerity attack is not a lapsus, it is the best proof that there are no uniforms in this management and there is little reason to hang medals. Because your government is late, but it also offers negligence in the proceedings and, according to administrative managers, more than 50 000 companies are already closing down. The management of the more than half a million ERTEs that have been presented accumulates delays that stifle companies. And you can't receive with date more than twenty days ago justified force majeure denials of ERTE in which business was not forced to close, because neither this nor Kafka. These negatives come without time to react, without room to not break, since entrepreneurs without income are not in a position to face the payment of amounts for which they have no funds because ICO loans do not arrive in time or are not granted to them. And in the meantime, workers without having received their benefit in March and April from the State. We do not need balloons of millionaire announcements that dissipate immediately after being announced and that are not concrete in measures for workers and businesses. And we know that we have offered them; they have been offered by the President of the Generalitat. And, Mr Echenique, I would like to say that if proposals are made but the Government does not take them into consideration or is late, because of course this does not lead anywhere, anywhere. Our sense of responsibility has been clearly demonstrated; having applied 155 to us through health care as we have denounced, we gave you support in seeking the legal certainty of workers, self-employed people and businesses, while you were deeply undermining private television with millions of euros and cutting funds for active recovery policies. Therefore, our vote on the extension cannot be, as we did in decrees that seemed insufficient to us, a critical yes with the hand extended to the collaboration, nor can it be any more abstention after having offered measures that you voted against and applied at forty-eight hours, via the Council of Ministers, persevering in decisions that cost lives. We have told you, as an active and passive person, that another state of alarm is possible, with coordination, decentralization, returning competences and with a plan of decontainment drawn up by experts, because we need to be able to offer guarantees to citizens and protect their lives and their economy. But under its 155 health care, police and digital, inefficient and ineffective, what would be necessary is that there was a government with strategy and, for the moment, we continue without news from Gurb. Thank you very much. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Errejón Galván has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, Mr President, we are going to support the extension of the state of alarm and we are going to do so out of consistency with the position we have maintained since the beginning of the crisis. A position that is basically summed up in supporting the Government not as a party, but as a public effort to live up to this crisis and, at the same time, to drag it or maintain that there are alternative possibilities when we believe that it is coming late or that it is not giving a response to the intensity and strength that the crisis requires. Humbly, I have to tell you that we are proud to have gone forward since the beginning of the crisis ideas that, when we exposed them here every week, were an exaggeration, they made no sense, they were an overperformance and that, sometimes, weeks later or even hours later, they ended up applying. We will continue to do so, but I would ask the Government to make it easier for its partners and to learn to be supported. Essentially, there are three tasks in this crisis. One is the task of confinement, and in that we have always supported that we must be strict; so yesterday we do not understand that she was in such a hurry to send people back to work and that, however, she was so restrictive with the possibility that the children would go out for a walk. We said that it was meaningless that they could not be in a square but could be in a supermarket, and we tabled an amendment to correct the position. I do not know if our amendment will go ahead, but I do know that it is very possible that the correction that the Government eventually takes will be quite similar to the meaning of that amendment. The second task is that of social protection, to which I shall refer later on and which I believe there is much to be done, and the third is that of mobilizing resources, and there we have basically put on the table: one, a COVID rate for 1% to contribute - not the middle classes - to the national effort and, two, as we say the insufficient things, seems to us that the proposal of the European recovery fund is courageous, ambitious and also looks on the long way towards an ecological transition. We do not understand, by the way, the position of the People's Party when it voted against the proposal of the European Greens to pool the debt, something that was necessary for Spain and which therefore meant a vote against the interests of the Spanish. Last week, in a parliamentary question, the Minister spokeswoman of the Government answered me: We are bad but less bad that we are, quoting apparently - then I looked for - Pepe Blanco. I understand it's a jackhammer but I'm worried about what underlies the jackhammer, which is this kind of feeling of relief because one is less bad than the others. Given who the others are, I do not know if I would conform, especially because that path the last time it was practiced led to cynicism and disenchantment. The last time it happened, while Spain was in a huge moral and economic crisis, the Parliaments and the ballot boxes were empty and the squares filled. Today, that we are approaching a very complicated situation, that black storms stir up the air, it is necessary to be clear that the reactionaries are not going to ride again VOX or brave, they are only going to come back if they ride disappointment, the feeling that politics does not deal with the simple people, and for that it is essential not to leave the Spanish citizen in the bad weather. I know that I go up every week and say basically the same things, that there are many people who are staying on the road, that there are many people who remain in a situation of absolute unprotectiveness, but every week that I say it is more serious and more urgent, there are hundreds of thousands of Spaniards who cannot wait for a re-edition of the Pacts of the Moncloa or the route - they will recognize me as uncertain - of a parliamentary committee. There are people who ran out of work before the decree protected them, there are people in the informal economy or in the precariousness of a month without entering anything, there are tenants or mortgages who in the vast majority cannot get the aid because they are lost in the small letter, there are autonomous ones who suffer the abusive consequences of bank loans, there are bars that have been closed for a month and who do not know if when the end of the confinement is decreed they will be able to reopen. These people cannot wait for the institutional times of a parliamentary committee, but they would not have to wait either. The government, I will not tire of saying, has the numbers in this Congress and the understanding in society to set in motion an ambitious policy that all these people tell them that the state is with them, that it is on their side and that it will take care of them, starting with a quarantine income applied already, not in June, that is then controlled ex post and that guarantees that none of these people, that none of these hundreds of thousands of Spaniards will be left unprotected. I was told the other day that this perhaps was not a moment of structural reforms, which cannot be done now; in More Country we consider exactly the opposite: this is precisely the moment. The crisis is showing, clearly, what are the things that make us more fragile and weaker as a country and what are the things that make us stronger. Privatization or tax cuts and gifts make us more fragile; it makes us more fragile to have no own industry; it has made us more fragile by inequality and dependence on the whim of financial powers. And it makes us stronger public services, having organized communities and national solidarity, having a reindustrialization, which will be green or not, and it makes us stronger to have a solid and just state. If you don't move now, that will mean going back, because those who in good times mock Dad State and now put the box on, then they will again ask for cuts, so this is precisely the time to move forward. We enter this weak crisis, with the social contract broken by inequality and without a country project; we have to emerge strengthened, with a strong state, with a green and egalitarian patriotic project. And now, believe me, it's just the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u25	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u26	I will listen to the president and make my speech from the seat. Some groups have little opportunity and little time to speak here in plenary, so it is unworthy how some of them waste their questions and interventions. For example, this right-wing brazen and irresponsible, whose proposals a week ago did not pass from the black tie of Casado and Venezuela of Abascal and VOX. And today, more of the same: many reproaches and not a single proposal. Mr Casado looks black tie, Mr Abascal and all of VOX's bracelets or other things with the flag, but let's not be fooled, they don't care about Spain or the Spanish or the pacts responsible for all the citizens; on this hypocritical right he only cares about one thing: power, to overthrow any government other than their own, to do what they already did in the crisis - remember, Mr Casado?, you were already a deputy -: to vote all the cuts that were made, to vote to be the Robin Hood of the banks, 65 billion, and of the powerful, tax amnesty. Do you remember, Mr. Married? By the way, banks could make an effort; last year they won 13.5 billion and this year they could make an effort and businesses and self-employed people who have some delay in payments might not charge them those interests above 20%. Mr President, we are going to vote once again for responsibility, although there are still errors in management, some of them in the package this week. We celebrated the rectification with the children, it made no sense. We also welcome the fact that a compromise proposal has been taken into account, which we made here fifteen days ago to regulate the price of health care material or which we made to the minister on the workers in the test. Today we also have four proposals to add, to help. The first, that it is allowed to continue to tender work telematically, that the administrative deadlines are not interrupted in this, so that all the works can be addressed when this ends, when it leaves. The second, equality of autonomous funding, the same per capita funding. We are seeing the crucial importance that the autonomous communities are having, and some of us do not have the same resources, and that is why we ask them for equality. The third is to rescue artists and the cultural sector. It is a sector that pays for days, hours, and sometimes they cannot access this extraordinary benefit. And fourthly, do not put a stop to that 20% surplus so that they can spend the municipalities on the whole resolution of this crisis. And, one request: that these proposals can be voted on separately. Mr President, make liquidity reach businesses and self-sustaining, because we have complaints that it is not coming. The president has spoken of healing, of rebuilding and strengthening, and I would add one more verb, shielding. The other day I said to him, "What's not there, what's not he dare to shield public health?" First tablespoon, fly. This same week Citizens and the PP have prevented a motion from being discussed in the Alicante Diputation that intended to talk about the armoring of public health because it was political. Of course it was political: its policy, our policy. I'm done. In these crises people get the best and the worst...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u27	Mr. Baldoví, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u28	I have two lines left, and Mr. Casado has spoken four minutes and thirty seconds more.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u29	Mr. Baldoví, you're wasting your time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u30	I'm done. In these crises, people get the best and the worst. Some, the people in their homes, are getting the best out of them, messages of encouragement. But all that comes to us from the right are messages of hatred and reproach. Make him look at it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the same parliamentary group, and lastly, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u32	Thank you, Madam President. We had previously warned that our constructive and purposeful attitude was not going to be silent or acritic. We made a collaborative effort, with sensible proposals, which were not taken into consideration or, if they were, as happened with the paralysis of non-essential activity, late and for insufficient time. We hoped from the beginning - and we sincerely hope - that they would succeed in their management, because that would mean that we would all be better off. But, just as we do not support their economic measures as insufficient and in some cases unfair, we are also very critical of the management they have made and are making of this crisis. You started by centralizing the decisions, which was obviously a mistake. Emergency management has demonstrated the inability of the State and, in particular, the Ministry of Health to manage effectively. They refused to close Madrid: it was also shown to be a mistake. They're in time to rectify the centralization. Accept our proposal that it be the Autonomous Communities, that it be the Government of Galicia to design and manage the descalation plan adapted to our reality. They may be wrong - we are very aware of this - but if they design it in Madrid with a uniform approach they will surely be wrong, because the realities of our countries are not at all the same. Correct, because sometimes when they correct correctly, as in the case of the departure of minors. I assure you that in Galicia there are billions of safer places for a child than a supermarket or bank: open spaces, outdoors or in nature and close to homes. That is why we have tabled an amendment to this effect. It is clear that it was a misconception, so they did well to rectify it. Older people, there is that temptation to turn a state of alarm into a state of emergency, with that militarized staging of management, more propaganda than practice. They make statements that put at risk public rights and freedoms and actions that directly violate them, such as applying section 36.6 of the Law gags, which you were going to repeal - remember? - and that you have not only not repealed, but use it improperly to enforce the state of alarm. I'm done. We want to make it clear that we support the continuation of the state of alarm for two weeks, but that we do not support at all the management that the Government is doing of this crisis. And in relation to the European Union and its role in this crisis, just a very quick point. If we ask the European Union to portray itself as what it really is, an undemocratic and insolidary structure at the service of the oligarchies and the central states, it does not do it any better. A perfect portrait came out. Faced with this, we believe that another social, democratic and people's Europe is possible and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Rincón. Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Mr. Sanchez. I shall begin by referring to the question of your accountability in relation to the European Councils, to which, on the other hand, you are bound by Law 8/1994. I say this because my parliamentary group has always been flexible in the Board of Spokesmen so that you could adapt your agenda - we understand it complicated - to come here to Congress to fulfil this obligation, but it is that these European Councils took place on 20 and 21 February and 26 and 27 March and today we are on 22 April. You seem to be doing a little bit of laziness to come to Congress and tell us about the agreements that are being adopted in the European Councils. But, above all, it is that it does not agree with the opposition political groups even in the emergency situation in which we find the positions that you will take to the European Council tomorrow. Today he has had the desire to count on us in advance - and I thank him, because he has not been doing so to date - what Spain's position at the European Council is going to be. Today it has done so, but we learned initially from a tweet, in which the work of the European parliamentary group of Citizens, led by Luis Garicano, was practically copied, which had been trying to negotiate and obtain for Spain the reconstruction bonds, the investment plans, the mutualization of the future debt, for weeks. Well, come with us, take us by the hand, let's go together. If, in the end, in Europe, who do we vote together? Liberals, Conservatives and Socialists; We can neither Bildu nor Republican Left of Catalonia. Tell us before then what position he is going to defend, negotiate with us, because precisely in these beloved pacts of national reconstruction one of the legs is called Europe and that is where we have to negotiate the position of Spain in these European councils. Citizens were the first to propose a series of health measures in Europe, increased investments in health care, the hiring of medical personnel or the injection of liquidity to businesses, the easing of European funds, the solidarity fund to help the autonomous communities, the protection of the internal market to ensure the commercial flow of health products or investment in science, as you say right now, a fundamental pillar for combating this health crisis. And these measures remain short, because now we all have to work together to increase the European budget, we have to try to get that mutualisation of the future debt to get out of the socio-economic gap in which the virus itself is going to disappear, we have to work for the reconstruction bonds, for the ambitious investment plans. Mr Echenique has spread a false news saying that we voted against this plan, when we, together with the People's Group and the Socialist Group, are voting for this plan which you are trying to bring to the European Council tomorrow. Fifteen days ago he said to me, "Convene the Dutch to give their arm to twist and help us in this, because they are of your ideological family. This, Mr. Sánchez, has nothing to do with ideologies. There are countries reluctant, such as Austria, to the mutualization of future debt, governed by the People, and others, such as Finland, governed by socialists. It has nothing to do with ideology, I told you fifteen days ago and I repeat it now; it is not ideology, it is putting territorial interests before European interests. Let's go hand in hand together. Stop going to Europe trying to support yourself in demagogies, populisms, extremisms or nationalisms, which are the isms that support your government. I now turn to the extension of the state of alarm, and first of all, as it cannot be otherwise, in memory of the already 22 000 dead. I would like, in my name, Mr Casado, in the name of Inés Arrimadas and of my entire parliamentary group, to express our deepest sympathy for the death of your uncle. I want to refer to the people who fight for their lives in hospitals alone, to those who are confined to young children and who still have the insecurity of how they will be able to go out on the street; I want to refer to the heroes who make us maintain the hope that we will get out of this crisis and resume our normal life again; I also want to refer to our elderly, so resilient, so hard, who also sustain our hope. And I want to talk about families with children. Indeed, stop improvising, we are talking about a very serious thing, the fact that children do not go to closed places, but that they can take outdoor walks. To the workers of Congress, I want to thank you, but you wouldn't have to be here, it should be this - someone has said it before - a telematic plenary. I am not going to extend much on this particular, it is known what is the position of Citizens on it. I simply want to say that there could be a flexible interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and that it is not in any way understood that we are in this ghost plenary when the companies meet telematically, we meet telematically, the boards of directors are held telematically, the Board of Spokesmen is held telematically, until the plenary of the Constitutional Court is to be held telematically, the municipalities are to meet telematically, one of the oldest parliaments in the world as it is the British says that it will also hold telematic meetings and, look, even the other day I listened on the radio to Felipe González saying - forgive me to quote again - that I did not understand how this plenary could not be held telematically. But we are faced with the decision on the state of alarm and confinement and, therefore, it is a yes or a no. And confinement, in fact, has been revealed as the only possible medicine against the virus, because there is no other medicine. The Spanish comply with their part of the deal, they are in their homes with insecurity and fear because of the improvisations of this government. They don't know if they'll be paying their salary this month, they don't know when the aid will come to them, they don't know if they'll be able to go back to their company or if it's closed. They're angry, they're angry, like we're all angry. But it's time for the hand out, I told you. The virus has no ideology, our hand, the hand I offered you fifteen days ago, is still spread, with more loyalty than that of many of your government partners. But it's a demanding hand, it's going to ask for responsibilities. We want to provide solutions, we want to think about the Spaniards, we want to save lives, we want to save jobs, we want to serve and protect the Spaniards, because that is why the Citizens Party was born. In this regard, we want to say that the Government has been late in this crisis and has done it quite badly. It refuses, first of all, to acknowledge any error. Look, Mr Sánchez, from the mistakes you learn for the future, it is absolutely essential to know what has been done wrong. We are at your side not to hide these mistakes, but to help you not to make them again. That's why our hand isn't a blank check. We're not gonna deny your mistakes, we're gonna help you not make them again. We do not reach out to you so that Mr. Iglesias will go to the Intelligence Commission through a royal decree-law, we do not reach out to you to learn of the measures of this government through its endless press conferences or Twitter, we do not reach out to you so that the clumsiness of your interior minister will cast the good name of the Civil Guard. We reach out to him in support of the self-employed, the workers, the SMEs, the families. We don't shake your hand so you can shut up when your government partner promotes caceroladas against the king of Spain on the street. It's not about that, it's about helping, it's about providing solutions. That is why we offered you the first national reconstruction pacts, those pacts which you later admitted in the press conference even with regard to your structure and finally even in writing when you called us to that meeting in Moncloa, which you later deconvoked because you reached an agreement with Mr Casado; yes, with four legs: health, economic, social and European. Those reconstruction pacts are the antidote against their improvisation, against the improvisation of their Government, because we are not going to admit that succession of real decrees-laws that correct each other, and in the end we do not know what norm is in force; nor do the balloons probe that you launch, to see how they fall into citizenship, as in the case of Noah's arks and the confinement of asymptomatics; nor do we know all the bureaucratic obstacles that you are putting to the perception of aid and social benefits; or how you have left on the road sufficient aid for small, self-employed and, above all, mutualist enterprises; or how you are legislating with the fat brush, without taking into account that there are small and medium-sized enterprises, some or other sectors; or how you determine that non-essential service workers will return without having individual protection equipment and without those equipment they will be able to work again; and with that chapter of the purchase of the health material that you want to hide and that we do not even have the names of the entire newspapers. Nor do we want those official state bulletins from Sunday at 11:30 p.m. that come into force in half an hour, and we do not know and do not know what employers and workers will have to do. We do not want you to threaten freedom of the press with press briefings without questions, or freedom of expression with that concept of the fight against the bubbles, or you - I have already said - to muddle the name of the Civil Guard saying that it is fighting against the disaffection of the Government. No, he's pursuing crimes, he's maintaining citizen security. And in Spain the limits of freedom of expression and of the press are found in the Penal Code, and not in what you understand as a bubble in a kind of creation of the ministry of truth. We are not going to admit those biased polls by Mr Tezanos, which seem to make us believe that in Spain people do not support press freedom and want a unique source of information about the virus. Tell us if it is true what they say in Italy, that you are going to ask for the rescue of Spain, tell us. Finally, the peak of improvisation has been the departure of children to supermarkets and banks. Do you now have to rectify by ministerial order, a ministerial order that will develop a real decree with a different meaning and by which you will regulate fundamental freedoms? Please ask the State Attorney's Office first, so that everything will go well. And in relation to the departure of these children, was recommended by the committee of experts, those experts of whom we do not know their name? If there are these experts - which I doubt - I imagine maybe one of them came to his house and said to his six-year-old: Don't worry, I'll take you to the supermarket on Monday. And the child must have said: No, Dad, I want to go out on the street, not go to the supermarket. You know what's going on? Sometimes children, who have no ideology but a lot of common sense, would advise you better than that committee of experts you talk about and that we don't know who your members are. We offered him national emergency budgets and continued to offer them to him. And we offered you those pacts of the Moncloa, for which you have reached an agreement with Mr. Married - we think phenomenal - and have become the pacts of the race of St. Jerome. But we need them now. I left yesterday very disappointed the Board of Spokesmen, when both the People's Group and the Socialist Group told us that a committee would be set up, we would have to present papers, we would have to discuss for the Bureau Presidency - which the People's Group wants for itself - and we would see that. Are we meeting in September for the first time to take sanitary measures for an epidemic that I hope will have passed by then? Not in September, it's now, now, next week. These are health measures, social measures, economic measures, European measures that we need now, we need now. We need agility, we need utility, we also need to see what the mistakes have been, so as not to continue to incur them, and in that sense we will help you in a loyal way, with the hand stretched out. You talk about the new policy, but please fulfill it. So far you have carried out a policy of trenches, good and bad in all the problems that this House has seen. For example, we have encountered that you in the field problem countered producers and distributors. We have had your Minister of Labour doubting the honesty of employers and opposing employers and workers. Her Minister of Education tried to counter public education with concerted education. We even find that for his government partner private health is a criminal and it seems that only public health can be used when both are working together. We will all come out of this crisis together, all without trenches, because indeed the new policy is unity, it is consensus, it is agreement and it is resignation, I also told you fifteen days ago. Our elders taught us how to fight a dictatorship and fought for freedoms. We were bequeathed some principles and values in the year 78 of which Citizens feel inherited and were embodied in our Constitution. It is our duty to collect those principles and values that gravitate upon consensus, to update them, to improve them and to give them to our children so that they may live in a better Spain. That, Mr. Sanchez, is your responsibility. Have a high eye, behave like a man of state.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u35	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u36	Thank you, ma'am, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the government is asking us to ratify the state of alarm for another 15 days. And the truth is that these times of pandemic and state of alarm are being complicated for families, who must remain locked under strict protective measures, complicated for the development of activities and complicated for the management of the public thing, not only because of the very fact of the difficulty involved in handling a crisis of these characteristics and decision-making in a situation that had not been experienced before, but also because of the dynamics in which we are legislatively handling ourselves. In fact, we began this legislature with the announced good intentions of not resorting to the technique of decree-laws, which had so often been done in previous legislatures, a system that nullifies the capacity for parliamentary discussion and which obliges to give a yes or no to norms that often contain unrelated and very varied subjects, omnibus norms. It is understandable that, in a situation such as the state of alarm, urgent regulations are made to deal with the situation - no objection can be made to this on our part, which is clear - but it will never be acceptable to use the situation and a dynamic of decree-laws to amend legislation with a permanent vocation. It is very difficult for Parliament to control the hydride of measures that are being implemented in all fields. I will tell you more, we do not know the specific effects that these measures are already having. The first extension of the state of alarm introduced an amendment at the request of our group urging the Government to submit a report on the situation to Parliament on a weekly basis. Well, the Government simply sends us a cold health statistics, which it distributes publicly, and a list of the measures, orders, decree-laws it has adopted. We already read the BOE. In fact, the BOE offers a presentation of the measures taken, grouped thematically, much more accessible than the sheet sent by the Government. And that is not what we are asking of you, to be informed of the developments in the situation, whether or not the measures taken have gone the right way in all areas, in health, in the economic and social fields, and that is not being done. He asks us for a 15-day extension in order to maintain the confinement or other measures. You will have our vote in favour, as you have so far had every time you have asked, but I must tell you that we must already think about how the measures are going to be relaxed in the coming weeks, as other countries in the environment are doing. Mr President, you often repeat, and you have also done so today, that the measures taken in Spain are the hardest measures a Western country has taken. We agree with you that it is time to relax these measures under control, not only because the situation becomes difficult at the individual and family level, but also because everyone, the citizenry is much more aware today of the containment and security measures that we must individually adopt. The general and individual awareness of the risks and magnitude of the problem is very different from that of early March. You yourself have pointed out that the return to normality does not have to be identical in all places, not even within an autonomous community; okay. Nor am I going to argue with you that the general framework is set by your Government. Obviously, the appreciation of the local, of how to apply it, where to apply it, will be more practical depending on the fact that it is done by those who have more detailed information on the situation, as is being done in Germany. Therefore, efforts should be made to ensure that, in accordance with the general guidelines established by the Government in the area of health and back to normal, the autonomous communities themselves, through their presidents as the highest authority, are responsible for adapting and applying them in their respective territories on the basis of their more detailed knowledge of them. If within 15 days you are going to ask us again for another extension of the state of alarm, think about how you are going to implement this form of work; even begin to do so already because - as I have already said - you will not be able to vote in favour otherwise. Let me add that I have not just understood, like most, the shape of the measure announced yesterday morning by the Government to let children out of confinement. One thing is that their walks are controlled, that at all times they must be accompanied and keeping the proper separation, and another limit the departure of the children to accompany their parents to the purchase. This is not the best idea because, inevitably, unnecessary trips are going to be generated to supermarkets or other establishments, congestion unnecessarily. It is little less than a desireatum to pretend that children move in closed spaces slowly and neatly as an adult would. The easier and safer it is to allow a short and moderate walk in the company of the parents. That's why I'm glad you've rectified. But it gives me the feeling of something that's a symptom. It seems to me that, in the search for a balance between the unsustainable situation of children who have been locked up for more than a month and the need to keep the President's word to let them out - in the face of the intransigence of the medical experts, who do not want to catch or the little finger - they did not exactly find the most viable solution. But, of course, those experts sure said, not a single move. And they'll keep saying it that way in aeternum. That's why I told them that governing goes something beyond that. Obviously, they are the main reference, but I do not think how that press conference could be done in that way, saying what they said if it is not in the face of an imperative need and the need to carry on a committed word, while on the other hand, from the health side, they put themselves in a position of the scariest. I think more logical formulas can be found. Moreover, as I have insisted before, I believe that the awareness of each one of us of what this problem was, of every citizen, is today completely different from that which it was at the beginning of March and at the end of February, and our attitude is also going to be different. I would also tell you that you should be assessing and taking steps in terms of the possibility of being able to carry out physical activity and re-opening, limited and phased, small businesses. Finally, they resolved to set up a parliamentary committee for a so-called reconstruction pact between the People's Party and the Socialist Party. Believe me, this trip didn't take so many laps. I was first assured that there would be only one Commission dealing exclusively with economic issues and that it would be made up of only political representatives and the participation of political representatives. However, on Monday morning I receive an email stating that the Commission will be set up the following day with four working groups, including, inter alia, health and dependence. An hour later, all this goes to the stationery and we are told that, after Mr Sánchez and Mr Casado have met, they have decided that it will be a parliamentary committee. It's not manners. I do not know how this will end or exactly how this parliamentary committee will develop. Mr Casado and Mr Sánchez probably have a very different idea of what it should be or how it should work, but I want to make it clear from this very moment on that our parliamentary group is not going to cooperate so that, taking advantage of a complicated situation like that of this pandemic, some try to undermine the degree of autonomy of the institutions. Don't count on us for that. Without the acquiescence of the autonomous institutions, it would not be loyal or contribute to a better functioning of the State or to lessening political tensions between the State and the periphery. There are autonomous communities with citizenship-backed statutes that cannot be unilaterally modified by the Court. We will work sincerely to put the consequences of this crisis behind us, but we are not prepared for the self-government will of our people to be called into question by taking advantage of the present circumstances. They'll tell me that I'm putting the bandage on before the wound, say what you want, but it's raining already and here we all know each other, I've been in this Parliament a long time. On the other hand, allow me to refer to some issues on the development of this crisis that need to be improved. Again, I insist on something I have said before. It cannot be that measures are announced before they are defined in precise ways, to be rectified shortly after their announcement; and it has not happened once or twice, it has been quite more. If we are told that we should not rush into the relaxation of measures, we should also not rush into the desire for communication. The state has not proved to be either the best manager or the most agile in the crisis. What happened with the masks distributed in the autonomous communities, to be distributed among the health personnel, is a serious failure that is added to the acquisition of defective tests on two occasions; for both issues a solution must be found quickly. Nor is the delay in regulating the price of masks understood, since the majority use by the population had been decided by the Government. You will have an explanation, Minister, but it is difficult to understand that it has not been possible to do so before. I would also like to point out, and this is a problem that we are very concerned about, that at the moment there is a bottleneck in the Ministry of Industry, which has been pointed out from very different areas, in terms of the type-approval of sanitary equipment to deal with this pandemic. There have been prototypes that have taken longer to achieve approval than it took to develop them; and in the situation in which we are and in the hurry we are in, it is not understandable. If more means are needed, more equipment, for such approvals to take place, do so, put on, but having the ability to produce that material, which is delayed simply because there is a bottleneck in the Administration in that approval is not reception and we are concerned. I know that the government is also looking for different formulas, I understand that it will not be easy, but those bottlenecks must be avoided. I would also like to make a reference to a project which the Government is announcing as Guadiana and which is complex and has a marked depth. I mean what you've come to call minimum income. This is a matter in which, as I said on another occasion, we can understand, since in the Basque Autonomous Community it has been operating for thirty years, driven by my party, an equalized integral system. But, that is why, that is why it is necessary to build without destroying what already exists and, therefore, to make both systems legally and economically compatible and effective. There are no simple routes with hasty announcements or hasty ones. I now turn to Europe. Tomorrow's meeting of European government leaders by videoconference is a fundamental one. A final design of the proposal probably does not come out, but the important thing is that there is finally a strong European response to this crisis. The movements given to date in the five large areas, which you mentioned earlier, are positive, but insufficient. The release of the MEDE for health purposes or the provisions of EIB funds in loans for unemployment and wages, or the measures of the European Central Bank, which seem insufficient and basically follow the old credit schemes. With the closure of some countries to the issue of Eurobonds, guaranteed by the sovereign debt of the States, we must look for alternative routes, and we believe that both your proposal, Mr President, and that made by President Macron to issue Eurobonds with a limited time limit go in the right direction. We support your proposal to create a perpetual debt issue that offers investment rather than credit. It will, of course, have to be fine-tuned in its design to ensure the coverage of interests with new European taxes, but it is undoubtedly a new idea that offers the necessary investment to the most punished countries, without compromising the state guarantee of the most suspicious. I insist, it will be difficult for the definitive solution to be reached tomorrow, but the path must be defined because, otherwise, we will start to go counterclockwise and the very idea of Europe will be questioned. In this regard, we welcome the European Parliament's agreement to urge the Commission to propose a massive recovery and reconstruction package, including recovery bonds that could be guaranteed by the European budget. It is also clear that the discussion on the European budget and the multiannual financial framework must return to the starting point, to the initial box. On the one hand, it is clear that the amount can no longer remain at 1% of GDP but has to be higher than that established, which had already suffered cuts and, on the other hand, the distribution priorities, which had not yet been agreed, must now necessarily be reviewed in the light of the new post-pandemic situation. All this, which is urgent, cannot make us forget the need to implement in the future in the European Union a more ambitious and effective joint crisis management system that will allow for greater self-sufficiency of the European space in equipment, joint early action or unification of statistical criteria in the face of similar crises. And I conclude, Madam President, with a memory and hope for the thousands of people who are suffering from the disease, or the death of a loved one, or the precarious situation in which they have suffered from the crisis. We will do everything in our power to overcome this situation. And, Mr President, in short, we will vote in favour of supporting the new extension for responsibility, but we call for a change in the way the crisis is managed: changing improvisation for certainty, decree for dialogue with advance, early dialogue with institutions and parties from the utmost respect for the competition framework and involving the autonomous communities in the process of returning to normalcy in the coming weeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u38	Eskerrik asko; thank you, President. Egun on, good morning to everyone and everyone. COVID-19 is providing a fire test for all citizens, for all power and management structures as well, from the nearest to the farthest, and is also a fire test for the European Union. And like any evidence of fire, it has its positive or opportune side - let's put it this way - because it now has the opportunity to show that the European institution does bring added value to the capacities of the states and that their existence makes sense for the direct well-being of the 500 million citizens of Europe. And it has an opportunity to address the pending debate on the future of the Union around its founding principles: the social Europe, which leaves no one behind, and the Europe respectful of the diversity of its peoples and protector of human rights. Europe should act in this direction if it is to avoid the collapse of the institution. Firstly, it should act with the implementation of a European minimum income to ensure that all citizens have access to a sufficient level of protection from the problems that will arise. A basic income which obliges the Member States, and which is already in place here, but which also guarantees the reduction and payment of working hours for the care of dependent children and families. That is what we have been asking for since our formation in Europe. Secondly, and if we are talking about taking measures in the right direction, we should admit coroners with mutual guarantees between States, because this is a global crisis, yes, but also a European crisis, it is not a problem for the countries of the South and must be tackled with a European perspective, because it is Europe that is at stake and at risk, not Italy or the Spanish State. The European Parliament at its meeting last week rejected the issue of the Coronabons, a proposal in which our formation, together with left-wing and progressive forces, voted in favour. And it is worth remembering once again which parties voted no to this option alongside the countries of the north. Among some of the forces that in this House present themselves as the most patriots are the MEPs of the PP and Citizens, who voted against, and what they have done with it has been to help unbalance the balance towards an insolidary Europe, in which you probably feel very comfortable but in which the citizenship of the Spanish State will suffer more for its decision. Because - you said, Mr Sánchez - the European Council has opted for the release of the MEDE funds, but those funds, although in principle it is denied that the release will be so, will end up being applied in rescue conditions, and if anything made clear the experience of the crisis in 2008 is that these MEDE funds have also brought about the collapse in social policies. The resolution adopted has that great weakness, which can result in a new situation of unbearable indebtedness. It is true that, on the positive side, we could highlight the call for social dialogue and collective bargaining to respond to the crisis, the necessary involvement in this regard of the social partners, or the implementation of the European unemployment insurance plan. Today, he has put forward the three major blocks of proposals that will lead to the next meeting of the Council of Europe, including the creation of a financing fund through perpetual debt and CO2 taxation. It seems right to us, but Europe has enough scope to take further steps in fiscal policy because, beyond the territories that make up it, a European fiscal policy can and must be made so that large technological companies, such as Apple, Amazon or Google, contribute what is appropriate in social justice and stop acting in conditions of fiscal paradise; and also for a European tax on big fortunes to be put in place, because in Europe - also here - there is a lack of a wealth tax. To get out of this crisis both there and here, those who have achieved the most benefits are the ones who must bring the most at the moment. Uncertain future awaits Europe if it is not able to defend its citizens when they need it the most, this contradictory Europe, covered with a false air of social protection, where curiously comes before Russian aid, Chinese aid or Cuban aid than European aid itself. There are more issues that Europe is neglecting, as if the problems do not exist: there are ships such as Aita Mari, in humanitarian aid prevented by the European Union, or the regularisation of migrants in the Union, which must be given access to essential and more urgent public services during this pandemic, which is also linked to the situation we are living in the State. In this regard, we reiterate and demand once again that the situation of maximum vulnerability suffered by migrants, and especially undocumented migrant women, be protected and not made invisible: here too, regularization already. Because in this state of alarm, which is being extended today, it is necessary to repair all these collectives. We have been critical, critical with the alarm decree and its extensions, which have been presented successively, and hence our abstention, which today we will maintain because, although it is obviously necessary to maintain the state of alarm, the decrees still have deficits in the social and labor aspects. We believe that more can be done and, if more can be done, more must be done. And we are critical of the return to non-essential work because, as we feared, it is being done without guaranteeing the necessary protective measures for workers, because there are no controls, Mr Sánchez, there is no inspection by the authorities, which have replaced the direct observation of what happens in companies with the sending of documentation, and this will not allow us to know the breaches of the preventive measures established. Sufficient preventive resources and controls must be provided to address this reality and this problem, which can have an impact on a social problem, because it is not a question of inspecting to punish companies, it is a question of forcing companies to prevent the activity being carried out under safe conditions from being so, that it is safe and secure for workers and, therefore, for society. I enter a moment on the issue of children. We are glad that they finally changed the conditions that were explained yesterday because the proposal made, indeed, Mr Sánchez, did not make any sense. It makes no sense that boys and girls, if they allow them to leave their enclosures, cannot walk outdoors, which is the benefit they would obtain for their health and yes, instead, to re-enter enclosed areas, in places such as supermarkets and shops, where the risk of transmission of COVID-19 is more than obvious. In this sense, to avoid the pressures I admit will not be an easy exercise, and at this time much less, but that is what it is for a government to do; otherwise, emergencies can involve wrong decisions and on subjects such as the one we are dealing with, serious ones. Communicative policy is also, of course, definitive in this crisis. I believe that the presence of the army and of the bodies and forces of the State which, from what we have seen, has no parallel in any other European State, a curious image operation which at first surprised and now even acquires on many occasions the air of sanity, deserves to be mentioned in this respect. The semantic field of war, the militarized image that is offered to us from the government, day and day also, remains as prevalent as the same coronavirus; it must be that the virus in Spain affects not only the lungs and the heart but also inflames a patriotic spirit in certain areas. It seems not known here that maximum that says that the best army is the one that is not seen and in this the virus, by many brilliant medals that you want to face, wins them out. This alarm decree, the original alarm decree and its consequent enlargements, brings from its origin more concrete deficits, which we explained yesterday in the Labour Commission and in different Commissions. But the state of alarm also has a dark political side, and we reiterate once again our disagreement over the competitive invasion it has entailed for our two autonomous communities and for others in the state. The substance, manner and form of this state of alarm have exceeded the powers given by article 116 to the Government. Today, transparency is more than ever essential, and it should also be respect for the rights and competences of autonomy because this crisis of the coronavirus has also brought interference, invasion and cuts in active employment policies, left areas of education or health without decision-making, and centralized decisions have completely swept away the management capacity of autonomy statutes. In a sight and unseen, with a simple decree, and from night to morning, everything has been taken down for that which has taken more than forty years to build. One piece has been moved and the whole castle has fallen. These days, when there is so much talk of reconstruction, we must make it clear that we and we do not want to rebuild the past that has brought us here. We do not want to do this either in social and economic terms or in politics; it is the future, a new future in all its meanings and aspects, which we want to build. The new alarm decree raises a gradual and territorial descalation, it seems a logical measure, it was not the recentralisation that, in our opinion, has only complicated everything. Now, what we are asking is that the design of this descalation plan be under the responsibility of each autonomous community with proper coordination, of course, but that it is managed by direct observation of the nearest; by effectiveness, yes, and not to delve further into that dark side to which I referred. I said before that we don't need to rebuild what we've had so far. It is not a reconstruction of what we put forward, because what we need is to transform the system and move towards a society where not everything revolves around capital and yes towards the goal of building a new society in order to guarantee decent lives. It therefore requires a second major social and economic transformation of progress so that what is happening does not happen again, also so that the re-centralizing temptations do not occur again. Beyond the name of that commission, as we have said, beyond how it will be finally set up, we will go to those meetings that are called because social reconstruction must be carried out on other values and it must serve to build structures that protect people and strengthen public services. If inspiration and materialization mean policies of progress from the left with respect for the sovereignty of peoples, we will be there, and count on our support whenever it is to protect the most disadvantaged sectors, but not for a pact that enables right-wing policies. A social shield for the most disadvantaged, a scrupulous respect for autonomous competences and which deepens in a bilateral relationship of equal to equal, and not of submission, because that is what the Basque social and political majority demands and because that is what Euskal Herria needs to preserve his language, his life and his existence in the future. We will do so, with these premises because, as you know, what moves us and ourselves is the independence of our country as an objective on the horizon, but in the meantime, as long as this is not so, we will be in all places where we still decide on Basques and Basques and also because the defence of the interests of the Basque popular classes is not discordant with the defence of the popular classes of the Spanish State, but quite the contrary, it is the same class that unites us from solidarity, respect and aspiration to be a sovereign people in their decisions and actions. We will never give up our ideology or our goal, which is independence to build a more just, sovereign and egalitarian society, but we are aware that the main priority right now is the social and health crisis that we are experiencing. When all this is over, new problems will arise, but the structural problems that have not been solved for years will also remain there, waiting to be solved. Seeking solutions, with this intention we will go the way in favor of the common good, of all and of all. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, which now has its turn in reply, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u40	Good morning. I wanted to start by remembering that today is the birthday of Jordi Cuixart, a Catalan political prisoner who has been in prison for 919 days, and remembering that we do not forget that we have a political conflict with you. [[applause]] Having said that, we began to talk about the alarm decree they bring us today. There are many voices that wish for economic crisis. They started around the International Monetary Fund and now more and more economists from Europe's most powerful financial sectors keep talking about crisis, crisis and crisis and put the Spanish state at the centre of it. The economic crisis stories in this way, as happened in 2008, can only lead us to a place, which is to legitimize restrictive and draconian measures to recover the economy. This may sound like a dystopia, but the reality is we can go to work, but we can't bury our dead. I say the story is starting to shut up. The situation is very complex, especially because uncertainty and the dimension of irreversibility make it difficult for us to plan and see many things clearly. In fact, the only certainties we can have are those that we build, those of political management. And today we want to talk to you about justice, justice as a central element of this political management. We want to quote Arundhati Roy, who, when he reflects on the relationship between justice and human rights, speaks of justice as the one that always has a context, justice as the one that is revolutionary. For us the certainty that must be built is that of justice, justice as umbrellas for the common good and for the defense of life. Let me tell you something obvious. The spokesman for VOX spoke of certainties; ours are totally opposed to his, which are those of the political project that already failed in 1939. Therefore, for us the certainties are the ones that speak of life and common good. It is appropriate to talk about justice today because you are already talking about descalation, reconstruction - we all know that after the health crisis comes the economic crisis - and also bring us the conclusions of the European Council. As for Europe, so far the troika - the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the European Commission - has governed Europe with debt policy, i.e. they left us money in exchange for a memorandum; a memorandum that has always involved cuts in public services, the same ones that were cut in health in 2008 and for which we are paying the consequences today. I want to say to the gentlemen of the PP - who are left, of course, because half is out - that the minutes of silence do not save lives; it saves public health. Therefore, you are primarily responsible for the health collapse that we are experiencing today. Moreover, we will soon have the result of the negotiations of the economic ministers, and we hope that you will defend the end of austerity and financial control policies, that you will defend the debt forgiveness of those countries that require it and that you will also defend the repeal of Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, that Constitution which you so defend and that Constitution which, for the time being, gives priority to debt over investment in public services. It is common sense for life to go before debt. As for the state of alarm, we do not share their new normality; this is not new. You use the state of alarm to make fear policy, to cut rights, for security forces to act with impunity, to refocus sovereignty. In fact, even not sharing it, we in the first plenary abstained because we thought it could become a tool for protecting citizens from capital, which is not being. But we will not tire of making proposals to them. Amend the State of Alarm Act 1981, so that there does not have to be compensation in the use of private health facilities, because after the health crisis will come the invoices of the lobbies and employers of private health. Amend the Expropriation Act and expropriate buildings to ensure housing; Blackstone does not stop having profits and people do not allow or suspend a month's rent. Plan the economy and put it at the service of people. You have not been able to produce enough masks or PPE. And check the banks that were rescued in 2008, review the debts and nationalize those who have more so that, at least, they are at the service of the citizenry, that they give credit to the citizens - which is not happening now nor with the guarantees of the State - and invest in productive economy and not speculative. I'm done, President. We believe that, in the face of the rhetoric of the inevitable crisis, justice must be put as a concrete, revolutionary value and of the common good. When we speak of justice, we speak of bread, of work, of health, but also of culture, also of music, also of happiness, also of self-determination; we speak of the economic, social and cultural rights of peoples, because in this prison state of peoples, of the poor and of those we have memory, without justice there will be no peace.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, second, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is going to experience a great economic crisis this year, but it will come forward with the help of Europe and the strength of our people. The Canary Islands, on the other hand, is in danger of death because it is going to experience a humanitarian catastrophe and the greatest wave of poverty since the post-civil war. The global pandemic has caused an unusual event: the disappearance, overnight, of the tourism of which the islands lived. Hotels and apartments are closed to call and chant; this year we will lose more than 10 billion revenue from tourist spending; wealth on the islands will sink by 40%, and we will reach the horrific figure of 50% or more unemployment. I am talking to you about a prolonged scenario of severe poverty and social deterioration; I am talking to you about distributing basic food bags to thousands of families; I am talking to you about unprecedented social cataclysm. We are not going to suffer the same crisis in Spain, the Canary Islands have lost our way of life. I am interested to know whether you are aware of that, Mr President, and whether your Government has prepared a plan of salvation. If there is no tourism, it is as if the 2 200 000 canaries had been evicted; they have been left without income, without work and without a way of life. That is why I ask you: what are you waiting for to release the use of the surplus of the Canary Islands government, lobbyists and municipalities? Will you, Mr. President, allow the local canarian corporations to break down and have no money to pay their payroll? We must take action now, Your Honor. Allow the use of the surplus, extend the ERTE until October or December and prepare a rescue plan for the Canary Islands with active employment policies and a powerful infrastructure plan for the construction sector. Gentlemen of the government, for God's sake, don't leave us alone. I said it the other day and I repeat it today: do not abandon the Canary Islands; do not allow our municipalities and cabilds to sink; do not throw my people into the arms of the radicals who are only waiting for hunger and rage; cannot be allowed. In a few months' time, the Canary Islands will be a matter of state, an economic cemetery and a social ruin. If Spain does not come to your aid, more than two million victims are going to drown this year in the middle of the Atlantic. I would ask you, Mr President, to join President Macron and the President of Portugal at this European summit, who are affected by the same issues and who have already put forward different policies for the outermost regions in the first document. I'm done. When you hear the screams of my people remember these words, Mr.Sánchez: Sometimes to commit a misdemeanor and not a crime is enough to do nothing to avoid it. We are on time, we have to work together with the Spanish Government and the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands with the municipalities that have social policies. We no longer have Venezuela the Canary Islands. That is why I ask you to prepare a specific plan for a community that is different from the rest of this country. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, the European Union has already apologized to Greece and Italy on two occasions. I would like to know whether you will again apologize if the answer is insufficient, and, in addition, it generates debt that we will pay in the future, with interest, all the citizens of the Spanish State. We therefore support more resources and the perpetual debt procedure that has been put forward. We will also support the extension of the state of alarm on the grounds that it is the only responsible measure. However, the Canary Islands is having an excellent response to the pandemic; it has it because of the insular fact, it has it because of the response of its citizens and it has it because of the closure of the external borders. Now, then we'll have the risk of a huge social fracture in the Canary Islands. The dependence on tourism has a 40% impact on employment, when the average of the Spanish state is 11.7%, the data are clearly interpreted; as this economic engine falls down - and it is already down and is not going to recover quickly because it is not just up to us - we are going to have a social drama and an economic drama in the Canary Islands. For this reason, we ask you to respond to a specific and urgent shock plan, because it cannot be treated the same as those in a different situation, to which we are different. To this end, the fiscal relaxation of the European Union must be transferred to the autonomous communities. It is necessary to allow the use of the surplus, which is EUR 4 billion in the Canary Islands of all its public corporations, as well as to allow the borrowing of the Canarian Community, because it is the communities that care for public services and those that now have to stimulate the economy, at a time when the private sector simply cannot. It is also necessary for the exit in the Canary Islands to take place in a singular way, because if we have good epidemiological data, if the health system really has the correct diagnosis - and for this reason we ask you to consult with the experts in the Canary Islands, who have a clear diagnosis - then we can say that we are in a position to have a unique exit in the Canary Islands to try to minimize, at least, the tremendous damage that is coming in the future. I have to tell you that we would very much like to take advantage of this moment to help diversify the Canarian economy and that the dependence on tourism is not what it is, but the reality is that as things stand, with the resources available and with the future that awaits us, the answer can be no other than a different answer for Canaries, because the situation of Canaries is different in relation to the whole of the communities of the State. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u45	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u46	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Spain has been confined to its homes for more than forty days as it looks forward to the arrival of a deep and devastating social and economic crisis. When we most need a solid government, to put on the table the measures that Spain needs and that inspires confidence, security and certainty, what we have is a government installed in permanent improvisation, in constant error and that is giving the Spaniards a feeling of being more a group of bad amateurs than a cohesive team capable of bringing forward Spain. That example of improvisation we saw in a very clear way yesterday. After the president announced to us the weekend that the children could go out on the street, the spokesman minister went out to say no, that only to the supermarket, the pharmacies or the banks. Six hours later the Minister of Health came out to say yes, that he will already tell us how throughout this weekend. And on top of that, he told us that it was neither a contradiction nor a decoordination nor an inconsistency among the members of the Government. What people are beginning to think is that the government is taking his hair, that he is giving sticks of blindness, that he lives in permanent improvisation and that he is only right when he rectifies, and it is that rectifying once is wise, but to always be wrong what is evident is a government unable to move our country forward. There is another issue that we do not understand either and that for our community it is very important; I know that there will be some people to whom this issue may seem banal, the issue of gardens. There are many people in Navarre for whom orchards are a means of subsistence as well, and it is incomprehensible that the Government should let some tasks go, yes and others not a few days a week, yes and others not, when really if there is a place where no one can be infected is a garden, because the social distance is absolutely guaranteed. Between so much improvisation and so much error is how we have become the country of the world that has managed this health pandemic the worst, and that is why we are the country of the world with the highest number of deaths per million inhabitants. In addition, we have dehumanized this so much that we talk about the dead or the sick with the coldness of a given, without understanding that behind each point in a curve there is a father, a mother, a grandfather, a grandmother, in short, a family that is immersed in deep pain. And if we have come to this, it is not because Spain is a country with bad luck, it is because the policies that the Government has put in place have been a mishap, they have been taken late and they have been done badly. In the midst of all this we are now offered a pact, we are offered a path from unity; and unity is fine, but above all it is important to know where that path leads us. If the way proposed by the Government is to bring forward Spain with proposals, we will reach out to it, because our loyalty is not with its Government, but with our country. But if, on the contrary, the road is to become a shortcut for a left-wing government, with populists and communists inside, to cut press freedom, individual rights or turn our constitutional system around, it will not be able to count on us. And it is that in order to reach agreement, four things are needed: humility is needed, a plan is needed, leadership and country vision is also needed; and neither of the four of us are seeing them right now. Leadership consists in inspiring and marking the way, and at the moment we are witnessing, week after week, endless televised perorates that make many Spaniards tell us that Spain does not need a preacher, it needs a president. Humility is obvious that it does not exist when, among so many mistakes, they have been unable to say: I am sorry, I was wrong. The state vision is not seen in a government that is much more concerned about the disputes between ministers than about moving Spain forward. And the plan doesn't exist or nobody knows it. That is why, Mr Sánchez, if what is really about is putting on the table measures for health care workers, for all those workers who are on ERTE and are still unpaid, so that entrepreneurs and self-employed people start to see hope or to support sectors such as agri-food, tourism or the arts and culture sectors, which have felt completely left behind by the government, for that reason. If, on the contrary, we talk about marquetin and a photo, we will answer that Spain is not for frivolities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u48	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I want to send my condolences to the families of the deceased all these days, who know that they are not alone. But I do not go up here to make a dramatic speech, although unfortunately this pandemic has touched my family very closely, because the rulers have to have a cold head to make decisions. Mr Sánchez, we did not vote for you in the investiture, but we said that we would cooperate with the government in everything that was good for Spain and good for Cantabria, and much more in a circumstance like the one we are currently meeting. Even if there are things we don't like, we have to support the government. Sometimes we have to say, yesterday we had an example and we also heard how Miguel Ángel Revilla said it in the matter of children. We also fully share with you the position in the European Union. I also believe that the majority of Spanish citizens and Members of this House share the position you are taking in Europe. I'm not gonna touch this anymore. With regard to the new extension, we also agree, I think it is obvious that it is necessary. In addition, I would like to say one thing: we understand the difficulties of the Government, which is going to be fatal; any decision it is taking has advantages and disadvantages. Everything can be looked at from two points of view and when a decision is made mistakes are always made - and more so in the case of a government that has just arrived and with many people with no experience - but I will tell you something else: any government that has been affected by these circumstances would have been the same, regardless of the measures and the issues that are being addressed here. And in Europe too, they have the same problems, the same doubts, the same measures are being taken; of course there are differences, but many of these differences are probably explained by these factors strictly, but by those related to the pandemic itself. I really hope that we will have better results and that they will listen to us, but we do not have to be defeatists right now. With regard to the temporary state pact, there must be a real effort on your part to involve all political parties, even if there are resignations in the programmes, but especially the opposition, the People's Party, Mr Casado. I ask Mr Casado whether he is truly aware of the importance and impact of a pact in which you and we were at the international level, in the confidence of investors in entrepreneurs, in the interests of debt, in the morale of the Spaniards and in the consumption of their own. That photograph would be definitive to get ahead. Make a new effort; your secretary-general is doing it in Cantabria. This economic impact interests us all, of course, but, as we see here, you must now count on the support you have in this House, because when we hear many of the parties we see that they intend to take advantage of the pandemic to strengthen their political objectives. You would have to listen to veteran politicians, especially those who do not have their political future in the air after this pandemic. Mr. Sánchez, you can count on the Regionalist Party of Cantabria. We are going to be critical but, in fact, we are collaborating in everything we can and I want to say that it is also being heard; we must be totally constructive. Each has its own ideology, it is very clear, very clear, but we want to be with the Government. The government now needs help and we all have to put our granite sand, and I say this to the People's Party in particular. You, Mr Casado, would never regret it if you supported him, but you would regret it if you did not support the Government in a situation like this.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, last March 18th I proposed from this rostrum, without getting your answer, that Spain and Italy should promote in the European Union, whether they like Germany or not, or other partners in the north, the solidarity Europlan of the 21st century. All I have to say is that in this matter you have also wasted precious time. The time is transcendental value to face a pandemic and Spain lost two weeks in March to declare the state of alarm and implement measures of restriction of movements; on the contrary, the government then stimulated the massive agglomerations, as it was less important to the impact of a health crisis, auguring only a few, very few, contagions. Today we accumulate 21,717 dead - unofficially many more - and 208 000 infected, probably half a million way. Mr Sánchez, the Government conceals that highly prestigious international indicators place Spain as the country of the world in which it reacted worst to the pandemic alert communicated by the WHO in January. Of the current response, it is enough to mention the negligent and malicious episode of defective masks provided by the Ministry of Health to thousands of health workers. We are also the country with the largest number of infected health professionals. Your incompetence is reflected in the administrative obstacle to the approvals of our innovators or in the monumental misadjustment of the tests, of which neither you nor anyone offers any explanation, although it is a matter of paramount importance to determine the actual extent of the contagion in the whole of our population. This morning we are obliged to extend the confinement for the third time, because what I proposed on behalf of the Forum in supporting the first extension of the state of alarm was not fulfilled. I told him that that temporary extension had to involve a May, May, May to speed up the Government's arrivals of medical supplies, essential to protect the selfless health personnel, the State Security Forces and Corpses, so many people who sacrifice themselves in high-risk tasks to care for sick people and citizens, and to begin massively conducting diagnostic tests to identify the focus and define the size of the catastrophe. Mr Sánchez, a month later, Spain still lacks the most elementary protection material, as well as the test to short-circuit the coronavirus, because you have not corrected the evident inability of the team of experts to design and operate a logistics that, however committed its vice president, will never be able to get the public sector, because it is neither its function nor is it qualified to perform it. In short, Mr President, there is a lack, failure and a glaring failure of logistics to protect the Spaniards. That is why today the descalation is delayed and we have to vote in favour of the extension of the state of alarm, which only favors propaganda, related media and bots on social networks, in order to protect their image and that of their contradictory, negligent and incompetent government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u51	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u52	I want to start by saying clearly that we will support this further extension because it is essential to get out of the health crisis. As we have said on previous occasions, we need the unity and effort of all, but that is not an obstacle for us to continue to remember always that there is another Spain besides the big cities and now, when measures are beginning to be put in place to relax the confinement, we can no longer ignore it. In small villages the streets are almost always empty without the need for an epidemic, villages where there is no infection and it is usually difficult to cross with a neighbor; however, they have been honestly complying with regulations made by and for cities. Now is the time to create differentiated regulations, always strictly following scientific criteria, but adjusted to the reality of each public space. There is a large part of this country where you can go for a walk without approaching anyone, where children can play in the street without having to be controlled, without danger, where there are other simple rules that can lead to a more normal life. Many peoples suffer from loneliness, the lack of social contact throughout the year by depopulation and now we must prevent that social and human isolation from being accentuated unjustly. We have always said that the measures must be marked by scientists and doctors, but on that basis, please establish a specific regulation for the rural world, adjusted to their low population density situation. The example that has repeatedly been repeated here is that of gardens. A colleague just said it, and I said it in the previous session. It is one of the most absurd situations that we live with the autonomous communities, for lack of a national regulation that clearly regulates what can and cannot be done. In our case, in Aragon, it turns out that you can only go down to the garden now if it is essential for subsistence. How do we prove we're going to the garden because we need food to survive? It seems a little inappropriate. This situation needs to be regulated at the national level. The other issue that concerns us is that of the pacts. The announced pact, which seemed to us to be well on the way to an open and broad first table, now seems to be moving towards a Commission within this House. We understand that this is not an ordinary situation and that it cannot be resolved and treated as another matter for Parliament. This pact must at least represent all the political forces they want and are present in the House, and civil society must also be represented with its agents directly, at least with the right to be heard. We do not believe that the scope of this measure of great national impact and for a period of implementation that will be in the medium or long term should be limited. As far as the European Union is concerned, it has mentioned the need for the involvement of all the institutions, especially it, and we fully agree. Above all, we agree that there is a need for cohesion that preaches and with preferential attention to the inner periphery that we constitute, the territories with serious and permanent demographic problems. But let us give a warning, as we have historically been adversely affected by the application of the per capita GDP measurement method. GDP per capita, as has already been shown by specialists, only has a real economic sense when there is growth; in the territories that do not grow, GDP per capita shows nothing. In GDP per capita, the more people you lose, the richer you become, so it would lead to the absurdity of being infinitely rich when there is no population. That measure, which has historically harmed us, must therefore be combated. We cannot constantly fall into the same mistakes and always be the same ones we lose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u53	Thank you, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again I want my first words to be to remind the victims, the sick and their families. Mr Casado, political criticism is part of democracy, and personal contempt is not part of it. You know the personal appreciation I have for you. In my name and in the name of the Socialist Group as a whole, we extend our condolences to you and to all the families of the victims of this terrible pandemic. I also want my first words to be to thank all these people who are helping them and who are an example to society as a whole. This epidemic will happen, but what so many people are doing for everyone, will remain. They are the best in our society and their effort is working. That is the hope, that the effort is working. The anguish of previous weeks has given way to hope and precisely because we begin to see results we have to keep pushing. The unity of society is proving to be the way to defeat the epidemic, and the unity of the parties must be the reflection of that effort. It has been said that COVID-19 affects everyone and it is true. This crisis is not going to leave winners and we must all help to reduce the damage. This is a crisis without winners, it is true, but we have not all lost the same, nor do we make the same effort, and it is fair to recognize it. As spokesman for the Socialist Party, I would like to express my gratitude to all the workers who are striving to keep their families with scarce resources, who, in addition to fear of the virus, are facing the anguish of what will happen tomorrow with their jobs. My appreciation to all these parents who wake up to fill their children's time. I would like to express my appreciation to those who are forced to spend this confinement in precarious conditions, including living with several families; to the elderly who take care of their children, and to the children who live every day pending their elders. But recognition is not enough in this House, we have a political responsibility and I want to say to all of them as a spokesman for the Socialist Party that this time it will not be like others, that no one will forget them, that this time no one will be left behind. Every day we show that we are not a sum of individuals - and have heard me say so many times - but a community that takes responsibility for everyone else. And we will respond as a community, also in this the coronavirus crisis must be different from the past. The Government has taken and will continue to take measures to protect society as a whole, from the self-governing to the families, from the stable to the most precarious workers, from the young to the pensioners; this time no one will be left behind. As the President has explained on several occasions, that is the meaning of the Commission's social and economic reconstruction table. I think it's great news that we are all parties that can contribute something. I know that we have many differences and this House is and has witnessed all this, but I believe that whoever at this time is not able to look above his interests will never be able to do so. And, frankly, Mr. Married, I think your participation in this table is the best decision you could make. What we do today will determine the history of our country and our own political life and its party - I have told you again and again in these weeks - could not be limited to confrontation with the Government. It cannot be that every time you enter the opposition the time of the agreements ends and the time of confrontation begins. I hope this is the beginning of a change, because I agree with you that criticism is legitimate, it is legitimate, of course, we do not expect anything else; but the truth is that all too often what has happened is, precisely, something else, and not a constructive criticism. You say that we have dedicated very harsh words to you - very thick words, you said - and that you will participate in this agreement despite that. Look, Mr. Married, I know you have very fine skin - I told you 15 days ago - but you will understand that we have to answer it. The times when the only voice that was heard was the one on the right passed, but as it seems they haven't just gotten used to the replica and just like to hear the echo of their voice we're going to try it that way, we're going to try it with their own words to see if that's how they understand me. At the first plenary session to enlarge the state of alarm, on 25 March, the President extended his hand and said that he renounced confrontation with you, and called for union. I also did it as a spokesman for the Socialist Party. And you replied by saying that the government is incapable and incompetent, that it only gives rallies instead of taking action, that it does not know how to exercise command, that it abandons the health care workers, that only in the banana regimes is the cult organized to the leader as we do, that we blame the scientists, that never a government has been able to do less. And by the way, he let go nothing less than the government - and I quote - is instrumentalizing this drama to advance his anti-system agenda and his crusade against private property, the separation of powers and the free market. There's nothing! You said all this, and we shut up, Mr. Married. We shut up and reach out to him, and we talk about unity, waiting for you to pick up that glove. But no, at the next state of alarm enlargement plenary on 9 April, you said that the Government lies to the Spanish about the victims, something that Mr García Aegean and some of its autonomous leaders, such as Mr Monago, have also repeated. He also said that the moral authority of the Government is null and void, that we lack sincerity, that it only works what does not depend on the Government - I do not know if you were talking about the Madrid Community led by Mrs Ayuso -, that the Government has no credibility and waste millions in electoral decrees, that you are not going to be an accomplice - complicit, Mr Casado - to the Government, that the proposal for an agreement is a smokescreen, that the Moncloa is the epicenter of disability, that we are an explosive cocktail for Spain. Some of these things have been repeated by you again today in this plenary session. And he repeated - in another of those dramatic twists that he likes - that in three months we have put at risk - and note - the Constitution, private property, individual freedom, the rule of law and the separation of powers. And there's that! He has even said in his surroundings these days that the government's measures to help the Spaniards are turning Spain into little less than a communist dictatorship. It is curious because they are very similar measures that Germany, the United Kingdom, France, all the countries of the European Union, America and almost the whole planet are applying, even those that advise dangerous revolutionaries of the International Monetary Fund and The Financial Times, huge communist conspirators all of them, as you know well. Mr. Married, I hope you don't get upset or offended by your own words, but a little disproportionate they do seem. On the Spanish right, there is a strange climate of bitterness, which I think no one should feed. But, as you may consider my opinion biased and then get very angry, let us also go to another source, for example, The New York Times, which just a few days ago devoted a space to criticizing with words - these yes - quite thick the role your party and VOX have taken in the crisis. By the way, Mr. Married, they speak indistinctly about VOX and the People's Party, something that should worry you; I have told you countless times, because I am concerned. I have listened to you carefully and you have said some things about my party to which you will understand that I have to answer, issues that you yourself have raised. You have insisted a lot these days on the government lying, but you know it's not. You know that comparisons of deaths between countries are problematic, because measurements vary from one country to another and because some countries have been modifying them. You know all that, but you keep using it; today too. It's a mistake that doesn't even benefit you, just Mr. Abascal, who is going to demand more firewood every time because he just wants everything to burn. Don't you become your arsonist. I'll tell you what. I won't do it - as I say, I don't see anything good in the fight against the virus - but, if you want to compare, do it inside Spain, because here we do use all the same data. If you want to make such comparisons, compare, for example, the results of Madrid, after its decades of privatization and dismantling of public health, with those of Asturias, where we have preserved and strengthened public health. Compare it and you'll see what's in it. Compare it and use it to draw conclusions as to where we should be going in the future. You have also said that we have not supported health workers. Look, I assume that the impact of this virus was not predicted by anyone, neither by the Government of Spain, nor by the Government of France, nor by Italy, nor by Germany, nor by the Government of the United Kingdom, nor by Mrs Ayuso, nor by you. Now they say they saw him come from afar, but they're not able to explain why they didn't take action. If instead of offending so much when someone points out their contradictions, they spend a moment thinking about them, they could draw some conclusions, because there is much of the problem. I'm not going to use my words this time either, see if I can get it. It was Mrs Aguirre - her party, not mine - who despised Madrid's health care staff when they protested because they were selling public health; by the way, to funds and private companies in whose councils their advisors, such as Lamela or Güemes, ended up having a very well-paid position. It was Mr Fernández Lasquetty, who was his chief of staff and today he is a councillor in the Community of Madrid - not me - who said that health should be privatized, that public health is harmful, that it does not benefit and that it is a socialist thing; a socialist thing, exactly the same argument with which they criticized the creation of the EMU. Do you remember? They said that it was a whim of the socialists, that it was unserviceable and that it was worthless. Socialist stuff, exactly the same as they said when the Central University Hospital, the HUCA, was built in my land in Asturias, which today is serving to save lives. It's not my words, Mr. Married, it's what you said. It was Mr. Carlos Izquierdo, leader of the PP of Madrid, who, when the staff of the senior residences protested for their conditions and - listen - for the lack of material, it only occurred to him to say: 'Ladran, then we ride'. Beyond criticism and debate, you can do two things: you can be outraged by what you said yourself, or you can draw conclusions from all of this. Mr Casado, you now have to applaud the health personnel and those of the residences, whom you despised, and you have to applaud the UME military, whom you considered useless. It is clear that they have been wrong and for years now, when they made these statements. They draw also ideological conclusions, because time puts everyone in their place. Today, all these health and health personnel from the EMU are saving lives, and it would be good for you to learn from the mistakes so as not to make them again. I hope they do, because reality is crushing the ideological house in which they have lived for decades. We all need responsible opposition, Mr Casado, and I hope that your opening to the reconstruction table will be the beginning of a commitment to the social welfare of the Spaniards. It is not the first time that the right and left know how to understand each other in hard times. Europe has been said to face the worst catastrophe since World War II. From that disaster came a commitment to the social state that gave Europe the best decades of its history and allowed citizens some levels of well-being that previous generations could only dream of, and the European Union was also born. Today we face a new threat and that united Europe must respond to the challenge. As the President pointed out, the last two meetings of the European Council have highlighted the crossroads at which the European Union finds itself: or more Europe, more solidarity and more ambition to face our common challenges, or more retreat, more borders and less ability to respond to this health crisis or the economic crisis we are already facing. This health crisis is not the fault of any European country, but it is our responsibility to deal with it with all possible means, but it is our responsibility to respond to its economic and social consequences. That is why we support the creation of a European reconstruction plan to address this crisis in the medium and long term. And I would like to thank the President for his European leadership at both Council summits. We are aware that negotiations are being very difficult, but today's agreements, such as the EUR 540 billion emergency package, are a signal on the right path towards a joint response. It is time to show that we are a Union, as the President has said, Europe must do more in the fight against the pandemic. In the European Parliament part of the political groups have been able to move beyond their ideological and national lines to think of a strong European response for the benefit of all citizens. Our Parliament, this Parliament, cannot be less. The reconstruction table must mark one before and one after, because this crisis will mark one before and one after in the life of all Spaniards. The eyes of all Spaniards look at us and there are only two answers: either union or disappointment. The Socialist Party is where it has always been, in the union and in the reconstruction agreement, always at the service of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thanks to all the speakers, as is usually the case, for their positions, their criticisms, the constructive ones and those that are not so much, because I understand that we all have the same objective, that it is indeed to stop this pandemic and to recover a new normality that allows us all to leave and to contemplate this situation as a past. I will try to respond to each and every one of the interveners by order of intervention, and I will start with Mr Casado. I have already said that in many of my speeches during these weeks of alarm. Of course, we do not look at the People's Party as an enemy or an adversary at a time like the present, we believe that we must enter into a time of solutions, not divisions, and that we must leave the blame behind, because we do have a common enemy that is the COVID-19. It is true that I cannot resist to point out some of the issues, which have to be recorded at least logically in the Journal of Sessions, because it seems important to me. There is one thing I have to admit to you that it hurts me, and that is that you say a little less that the progressive government is doing what it is doing is to seek out and promote misinformation and bubbles. Mr. Married, if you ask the government if what you're asking the State Security Forces and Corps to do is to chase the bubbles, the answer is yes. If you ask me about patriotic cops or these kinds of behaviors, I ask you to address your bench and not that of the Socialist Party. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] In any case, Mr Casado, as I have told you, before the common enemy of Spain, which is COVID-19, the differences that we can have between you and me, the People's Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, are absolutely anecdotal. Whether we are in dialogue mode or in dialogue phase, we are in dialogue phase, in dialogue mode. It's true that you say this is not a war, but then you refer to some of the battles - I don't understand it -. In any case, we are in the process of dialogue and, therefore, if we are in the process of dialogue, we are in the process of dialogue. I have made a request from this rostrum, and it is that you join those social and economic reconstruction agreements, because also the Socialist Party where it is in the opposition will offer social and economic reconstruction agreements. What I would therefore like to know, Mr Casado, is whether you accept this proposal. Say it when I come up here to the rostrum. Do you or do you not accept the proposal to seek a common, joint, social and economic reconstruction solution between all of us, where the Socialist Party governs and where other political forces govern? I'd like to know your answer, here and now, a yes or a no. Nor does it seem to me that it is so complicated, and it would be important, Your Honor, for the whole citizenry. It is clear that what the progressive Government has done for more than these four weeks that we have been in a state of alarm, and what I have done too, has been trying to create spaces for dialogue, spaces for agreement between the various institutions. For example, we have held six Conferences of Presidents every Sunday to bring together many of the policies that are being implemented by the various administrations, in this case the autonomous ones. I also had the opportunity, at the beginning of the week, to meet for the first time, for many years, by videoconference with the board of directors of the Spanish Confederation of Municipalities and Provinces, because both the provinces and the municipalities are going to be a key piece in this whole transition or descaled towards this new normality. I will also see tomorrow by videoconference the social partners, with whom the various economic and labour departments of the Government have been meeting throughout this month. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that it is important for us to get started as soon as possible - some of the parliamentary groups have rightly accused us of this - that parliamentary committee, which we and I have agreed to set up, to speak precisely of this social and economic reconstruction. One of the issues that has been raised here by some of the speakers who are part of mixed groups or plural groups, regarding that agreement that you and I have reached, is whether they would have each and every political force here represented on that Commission, which is undoubtedly important. I would like to say to you some questions, Mr Casado, which I think are important. I'm going to start with an obviousness. The Government of Spain governs all over Spain. We're up to it, aren't we? [[Mr. Casado Blanco makes affirmative gestures]] I think so. Therefore, we govern in the seventeen communities and in the two autonomous cities, according to the jurisdictional division established in the Spanish Constitution and, logically, in the statutes of autonomy, and in the last few weeks with extraordinary powers because of the state of alarm ratified for successive weeks by the majority of this House. The decisions that the Spanish Government has taken since the beginning of the state of alarm I believe have benefited all the autonomy, in all the parameters. We may agree or not, but I think so. That is, it is a collective task of the Government of Spain and of the whole of the autonomous communities; not of one or the other, not of one or the other, but of all. Without the intervention of the Spanish Government, it would have been impossible to be at the point where we are today, and I would like to recall that, because we came from an average of contagion before the first decree of the 35 % daily state of alarm was adopted in our country as a whole, and today we are at 2 %, and we are going down constantly every week. That we'd like to go faster? Undoubtedly, but it is clear that we are in parameters and increments completely different from those we had just over a month ago. Allow me also a little bit of teaching, because there are some lessons from the epidemic that are opening up and that should also be underlined in order to make an honest debate, if we want to do so, and not go up to the rostrum to release our perorata on the issues that we have previously read or that we have raised as political parties. Let's share some lessons from this epidemic. I think the first conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, is that we know that the virus particularly affects older people with previous pathologies. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has almost 20% of the population over sixty-five years of age, Italy has 22.4%; France does not reach 19%, as does the United Kingdom, and the United States, thanks to immigration, among other factors, is below 16%. This fact seems to me to be very significant, but it still does not explain everything, because Germany, with a population almost as old as Italy, has completely different indices. Therefore, we need to know more, and time will be needed to do so. Second conclusion. We do not know the actual data from anywhere in the world, so that all the indices we do are made provisionally, but under the standards of those organizations that know about these things, in this case, for example, the World Health Organization and the European Alert Centre, to qualify them as official data. That is what the Spanish Government is doing: to be rigorous on this point, ladies and gentlemen, not to trivialize it, not to frivolize it, and not to use it as a bold weapon against the Government, that what it is doing, thanks to the state of alarm, is precisely saving lives. Worldwide, ladies and gentlemen, there are approximately 2,500 000 confirmed cases of COVID-19, two and a half million. This means that two and a half million people have been tested and tested, because a proven diagnosis is needed to account for a case of COVID-19. Do we all agree on this? Well, in other words, if a country does not take any tests, it could come to claim that it has no cases of COVID-19, and on the contrary, if a country is able to test each and every one of its citizens would have an exact map of the actual cases of COVID-19 in their country, and no doubt would be the country of the world with more cases per million infected inhabitants. This, of course, penalizes the countries that do the most tests in statistics, because by pure mathematical logic they are the ones that have the most cases. And Spain - I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen - is one of the countries of the world that most tests its population. We have already done, ladies and gentlemen - the Minister of Health and I have said this repeatedly in this rostrum - one million in one month, and every day - as I pointed out to you at the beginning of my speech - we have managed to double the PCR tests, which are most likely, from 20,000 PCR tests a day to over 40,000, and in some cases up to 47 000 a day. Each week there are more than 300,000 PCRs, and we continue to increase the pace. In addition, for a few days now, we have, as you know, provided the autonomous communities with more than two million rapid tests. It is not enough and we do not settle, ladies and gentlemen, but that is the reality. Third conclusion. The health system imports, the number of beds imports, primary care imports, and primary care will increasingly import in this management of the transition to descalation. The number of medical and nursing professionals matters, the number of UCI beds matters, universal and free coverage matters, the public matters, ladies and gentlemen. That is why some countries, such as Germany, not to say only that this is the defense made by the progressive Spanish government of the public, have hardly seen their health system strained. And in Spain, in some autonomous communities more than others, we have been on the verge of collapse. This conclusion, without pointing anyone out, should seem obvious to us, but I want to put it on the table because we will now have to decide which health system we want for the future. This is the debate we need to have in this House, if we are to be honest with ourselves and above all with the general public. In a few years' time, when we measure the dimensions of our public health system, we will remember that the VOCID-19 pandemic will be a measure of whether or not we are prepared to deal with a similar pandemic, such as the one we are suffering from. So yes, we can approach some conclusions. However, there are many doubts in certain analyses, ladies and gentlemen, doubts that I have shared with you every fifteen days from this rostrum throughout these appearances. Let's all be careful and wait until we have the full picture of the pandemic all over the world. I understand the criticism that can be made every week and every day in public appearances, but you too understand, ladies and gentlemen, that we will have to wait and be careful to have the photograph of the pandemic all over the world. It makes no sense, for example, to compare one autonomous community with another, as well as one country with another and much less now. The truth is that the COVID-19 is still for the scientific community - and that is not just what the experts who advise the Government of Spain say, but I am convinced that it is also said by many experts who advise other autonomous governments, of which they are part, at least from the point of view of support, political parties present here - an iceberg: it has more submerged part than in sight. We don't know about her much more than we do. That is why I ask you once again not to draw simple conclusions from complex problems. It has been recurring for centuries that the reaction to any emergency is summed up in that Italian joke: Piove, pig government; rain, government guilt. The Government of Spain, ladies and gentlemen, has ruled all over Spain, where it rained and where it was sunny. We are self-demanding and we know that in order to get to the point where we are today, in such a dynamic health emergency, learning must be continuous. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to record - because it has been called into question again and in a very executive way - the ability to respond and manage in the face of the uncertainty of the Spanish Government during these five weeks. The estimated impact of the main measures approved by the Government today is EUR 134 496 million, of which EUR 4624.39 million have been allocated to health measures in just over a month; EUR 124 877 million to economic measures; EUR 3816.16 million to labour measures; and EUR 1183.85 million to social measures. We will be able to criticize the lack of some collectives, there are problems in management, but what we cannot criticize this Government is that it has not been willing to leave anyone behind and to protect the public, to strengthen the first line of battle, such as the National Health System, and, without a doubt, to try to protect those collectives and sectors affected as a result of this crisis and this health emergency. To contain the virus, for example, more than 104 million units of sanitary material have been distributed, of which 84 million have been allocated to the autonomous communities, ladies and gentlemen. We have installed 17 field hospitals, and for no one to go back, to cite some examples, we have allocated 13,830 million euros, via loan to the Treasury of Social Security, in order to provide adequate coverage to the payment of pensions and avoid generating liquidity tensions in the system. Nearly 1.3 million vulnerable people benefit from the ban on suspending basic supplies; there have been 153,215 actions against gender-based violence and 4142 arrests during the state of alarm; 20,000 students from vulnerable families will receive SIM cards for Internet access to distance learning. We are talking about very big things, but also specific things, micro policies that benefit very specific groups that we want to protect from the government. In order to support those most affected by the crisis, 919 000 self-employed out of the 978 851 who have applied for the extraordinary termination benefit have already received the benefit. In addition, the self-employed beneficiaries of this benefit are exempt from paying the monthly social security contribution. It may be said that it is insufficient, but it cannot be said that this Government is not responding to the needs and urgency of a collective as important as that of the self-governing. More than 410 000 workers - to be precise, 410 550 - have not been harmed by preventive isolations, considering their situation of temporary disability assimilated to occupational contingency due to an accident at work. Ladies and gentlemen, 3 million workers are benefiting from unemployment protection measures due to suspensions, reductions in working hours for reasons of force majeure and temporary employment regulations for productive reasons as a direct result of the exceptional circumstances caused by COVID-19. We have promoted, as you know, EUR 100 billion in the line of state guarantees, through the ICO, for businesses and self-employed and, as we have said, we are already going through the second line of EUR 20 billion and we are going to allocate it in its entirety to self-employed workers and to small and medium-sized enterprises. For the autonomous communities - it has also been mentioned here - there are 14 billion extra euros of liquidity, destined to fight against COVID-19. Including, ladies and gentlemen, all the financing concepts of the financing system, for you to see the government's effort under such extraordinary circumstances, the autonomous communities will have 115,887.2 million euros, or 7.3% more than in 2019. It's the highest number ever recorded. As I said before, maximum institutionality and recognition of the autonomous state, ladies and gentlemen: eighteen interterritorial health councils monographic on the COVID-19 and six conferences of presidents. From these bases, ladies and gentlemen, the social and economic reconstruction, to which we place the whole of the House through a pact, can be much more effective. Mr. Abascal, give me lessons in transparency, you! You, Mr. Abascal, who did not allow the media to consider your party as outsiders to enter public events, press conferences! I remind you of one thing, Mr. Abascal. During this long month that we have been in a state of alarm, the Government of Spain has made ninety press briefings and answered nine hundred questions from various journalists. Public service information and information transparency, Mr Abascal. In your criticism, you, Mr Abascal, prove that you have no limit. Settle down against everything and against everyone. I believe that at this stage, Mr. Abascal, you will end up throwing at yourself, and if not, you will see. But when that happens, your voters will be the first to realize that behind your acronyms there are no acronyms, what there is hatred; that there are no criticisms in your arguments, but deception; that there are no proposals or ideas in your words, but the justification of an authoritarian State, intervened, centralized and I imagine that presided over by you, which does not believe in the freedom of expression, because, Your Honor, you do not believe in the freedom of expression, you believe in the freedom of lie. You will realize that you are only fostering bubbles, that behind you there is no hope, but yes - when you are heard, Mr Abascal - a lot of fear, and those you are really afraid of are all the citizens of this country, who will turn their backs every time they ask for their future. [[Applauds]] Mr. Echenique, I want to thank you for the tone. I think you've hit the nail. Indeed, to honor the memory of the victims, also to honor the anguish that many relatives of people who are now in hospitals waiting to see if they are discharged or not, we must have a constructive debate. I think we have to live up to the moment and the demands that the Spaniards bring us. I must also thank you for something very important, because, indeed, when we talk about the public, we are talking about the National Health System, we are talking about the State Security Forces and Bodies and we are also talking about a collective, a centre that is advising the Government of Spain in very difficult, extremely difficult circumstances. By the way, I have told you that we did not change, that is, it was a centre - the CCAES, in this case - that we assumed from the previous administration, with its maximum responsibility at the head, and it seems fair to me to recognize its extraordinary effort, its extraordinary professionalism in an environment that is increasingly rife, more tense, and its extraordinary demand in the field not only of prediction, of tackling the epidemic, but also from the point of view of communication. We are going to have the debate on the de-escalation. It's true it's going to be a very complicated time. The Government has been criticized - Mr Echenique and many other political groups have done so - in relation to minors under 14 years of age. For, ladies and gentlemen, I have said this in my first speech, we are guilty of prudence; yes, we are guilty of prudence, because between fear and prudence this government is committed to prudence, because what we do not want is to step back not a single step in the social conquests that we have been able to gain as a result of confinement. We sin with prudence. I also tell you that this is a government - the Minister of Health said yesterday - that listens and that between confrontation and division or between listening and agreement bets on listening and agreement. And if there are groups in the third sector, for example those NGOs that know about children, that empathize with children, that ask the Government to take a step further, logically, the Government does what it does is to review its position, take that listening and encourage that agreement, because what we want, ladies and gentlemen, is logically to save lives. We take extreme caution, we sin - if we have to sin something - of prudence and, from there, we take firm steps, because, I insist, as I said at the beginning of this intervention, the scientific community if it has a finding is that the COVID-19 is an iceberg and that we still do not know all the extremes and gravity of the virus that we have ahead. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are transiting through an unknown territory. If you look at other parts of the world - not only to Europe, but also to Asia, to Southeast Asia - what is happening in Singapore obviously has to lead us to extreme caution in the decisions we make. What I can assure you, Mr Echenique - and also the other ladies and gentlemen who have referred to this issue - is that the Government of Spain has been working for three weeks on this descalation plan; that, in that plan, the Government of Spain will set up a series of markers on the basis of which the territories will move from a stricter confinement to a more lax confinement and that, of course, ladies and gentlemen, we will take into account all the particularities and territorial diversity. But not only, ladies and gentlemen, because there is an idiosyncrasy peculiar to the different territories, but because - as the spokesman for Teruel Existe said earlier - it is not the same rural environment as an urban area, it is obvious; because we must link our decisions to the territorial reality on which we operate and, above all, ladies and gentlemen, above all, because the pandemic, thanks to the uniform response we have given throughout the territory, is asymmetric right now. The pandemic is not the same in Madrid, in the Basque Country, in Navarre or in La Rioja, which, for example, in the Canary Islands, in Balearic Islands, in Andalusia or in Catalonia. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I want you to know that, of course, we are working on that descalation. Moreover, it seems to me even unfair the criticism, because I spoke personally with all the autonomous presidents and also the Minister of Health in the interterritorial council held last Saturday - it seems to me that in the day of tomorrow the minister will have an interview with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces - and we were the ones who requested the autonomous communities to give us the contact of the person or the technical people who had the information about the descalades in each of the territories. I mean, it's not that we say: this is what we're going to do and you say amen. We have asked the Autonomous Communities to provide the reference person with the information, so that, from there, we can develop the markers in the most homogeneous way possible and, logically, begin to descale together and symmetrically. In addition, I do not think there will be any controversy about the establishment of these markers, because we are talking with the epidemiologists that are being talked about, all more or less are aware of what markers we are going to need: resilience and capabilities of our National Health System in the different territories; logically, evolution of the numbers of contagion, of hospitalizations, of ICUs, of deaths and, without a doubt, of all the issues that Mr Esteban has mentioned before and with which I logically agree, which are those linked to the changes in attitude regarding hygiene and social isolation, on which we have been learning during these long weeks of pandemic. With regard to social and economic reconstruction, Mr Echenique, we naturally agree on minimum income. It is a parliamentary agreement, it is an agreement that we signed by the two parties that form this progressive coalition. Obviously, Mr Echenique, you are no stranger - and here you have said, for example, some other spokesman - to those who are very jealous, rightly, of their self-government and their social policies, which, by the way, have been very successful for many years. What we have to do is to be aware that we live in a composite State, that we have different powers at each level of administration and that, therefore, we have to agree with all of them. I am aware that the Minister for Inclusion and Social Security is already talking to all the autonomous governments, especially those who have the most strength in this income policy, and let us hope that very soon we can have it in place, because it is indeed urgent in some territories. Before that, Mrs Oramas referred to the dramatic situation in the Canary Islands. The other day, speaking precisely to the President of the Canary Islands, I was told, about the 300 million euros that through the Vice-President of Social Rights and Agency 2030 we put at the beginning of the state of alarm, which fortunately will be able to increase and much the sums linked to the minimum income of insertion in the Canary Islands thanks to the contribution that the General Administration of the State is making from the beginning. We know that it is a tirite, in the sense that it is not a structural solution, but it is at least an immediate solution to alleviate the most urgent effects of this crisis. Of course, the structural solution at least this Government envisages it in the area of minimum living income. On the European Union, I thank you for your approach to the position of the Government of Spain on this recovery fund, which is as it is described in Europe. Logically, if the recovery fund is somehow linked to the multiannual financial framework, the two discussions will have to go online. That is why it is being proposed on 1 January next year, because we also need to negotiate a new multiannual financial framework, but I say to you that in the spirit of the Spanish Government it is opening negotiations as soon as possible and approving a new Community budget for the next seven years as soon as possible. Mr Rufián, you speak of mistakes, and to me it seems perverse, I say this frankly, to pose the dilemma in this way; to pose the dilemma that we ban accompanying the deceased and allow the workers, with all the measures, to go to those non-essential activities to which we have reopened the door so that they can resume their economic activity. It seems perverse to me, Your Honor, because that's not the disjunctive, that's not the dilemma, honestly it's not. Neither this Government nor I believe that no one, at least most of the political forces that we are here, is posing a dilemma between health and economy; no one is proposing it. Moreover - I again insist on it from this rostrum - I was criticized when we passed, through a royal decree law, the retributed permit recoverable, anticipating the Holy Week, in order to further lower the levels of mobility and try to avoid it - finally did not occur, fortunately also by these measures - the collapse of the ICUs. Therefore, I do not see that dilemma, Your Honor. The dilemma would have been if we had forced the workers to go to those non-essential activities without a prior agreement between the social partners, but what this Government has done has been precisely to foster that social dialogue and an agreement between employers and trade unions for the return to work of those non-essential activities. I think that's the dilemma. You reproached us that it was in a unilateral way and not having made a prior consultation with the social partners, but we have done so. Therefore, I do not think that is the case. What do you want me to say, Your Honor? In the reconstruction agreements we have raised this institutional agreement between the Government of Spain and the autonomous communities, to which we must also incorporate the municipalities. I said earlier, in response to Mr Echenique, that in the descalation, logically, governance will be shared, according to the composite state we have; it will be, Your Honor. I insist, we will establish a road map that we will share, evaluating the steps to take with the different autonomous communities and sharing them with you. The descalade is not going to occur at an autonomous level, and should not occur at an autonomous level because it is not the same, as you well indicate, the reality of Barcelona as the reality of Girona or Lérida or Tarragona; it is the same in Andalusia or, for example, in Euskadi. Therefore, I think it is very important to be aware that the descalation will put the entire institutional architecture into tension and testing and that we will all have to go hand in hand, appealing to unity, to that coordination, collaboration and cooperation to which I referred earlier. On communication, I insist, you have also reproached me for the subject of children under the age of fourteen. Your Honor, as you will understand, the government wants children to leave the streets as soon as possible, but we want to do so with the utmost guarantees. We are aware that we enter an unknown territory and we need to know what the consequences are of those decisions that we make, and, logically, we do so with the utmost caution and with the consensus of the scientific community, at least that of advising the Government of Spain. Obviously, we sin with prudence; it is true, I recognize it, but we listen and we agree, and that is what the Spanish Government has done and that is what we are going to set in motion from next Saturday. You speak of the pact for life, of social and economic reconstruction. He referred, for example, to tourism. I would like to remind you, for example, that at the beginning of the state of alarm - they are small figures, but they show how we have also given sectoral responses, not only in aggregate terms - among the first measures taken by the Government of Spain by royal decree law was to allocate 400 million euros of liquidity needs for the tourism sector, both for businesses and for self-employed workers associated with this sector. Today, EUR 400 million - which, by the way, were immediately absorbed by the sector - may seem like a small figure, but they involve an economic and budgetary effort and, above all, exemplify the commitment and empathy of the Government of Spain with sectors as damaged by this health emergency as is the tourism sector. He's asking me for courage. This is a government that has the seats it has. We don't have an absolute majority of departures. We are going to be brave and I think we are being brave; I also ask your parliamentary group to be brave in this task of social and economic reconstruction, and that is where I leave it. As for the dialogue table, Your Honor, I'm willing to pick up the glove. It is not in the spirit of the Government of Spain or that of my person to delay problems, on the contrary; it is simply that we are all now committed to what we are committed to. I even had the opportunity to speak with the president and vice president of the Generalitat de Catalunya to tell them that it was necessary to postpone the holding of the dialogue table as a result of the urgency, the health emergency that we are experiencing. In any case, Your Honor, the Government of Spain expresses its willingness to resume this dialogue when the conditions are the right ones and, above all, it is understandable to all Catalan and Spanish citizens. Mrs Borràs, I'm sorry you don't support the state of alarm. Plant that is not efficient - or at least it is what I have understood - to refocus purchases. I think it's one of the most efficient things we've ever done. By the way, we have not re-centralised purchases; what we have done has simply been to put the weight of 47 million compatriots in order to gain access to an already tense market. Moreover, I believe that one of the criticisms that could be made of the European Union is precisely that it has not acted much more urgently, because we are a market of more than 500 million people and imagine, with 500 million people behind us, what it means to talk with companies that make masks, PPE, respirators and even with the big pharmaceutical companies that are now investigating forced marches how to put the vaccine on the market as soon as possible. I therefore believe that, on the contrary, the Spanish Government has sometimes complemented and even led the purchase of this material has been quite efficient. On the state of alarm, Mr Casado referred, for example, to a report by Fedea. I don't know if Mr. Married has read it in its entirety. You will probably have seen the most outstanding things, the highlights, but the Fedea report says, for example, Your Honor, that the state of alarm has caused the number of infections to fall by 79.5%. Therefore, the state of alarm, Your Honor, is working. The Fedea study says, for example, that the number of cases in Spain had reached 617,000 as of 4 April without alarm, that is, 491,000 confirmed infections have been avoided thanks to the state of alarm and the leadership of the General Administration of the State. Therefore, I say this to you with all the kindness, but with all the constancy, Your Honor: what I cannot accept is to listen to some member of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia say that with an independent Catalonia there would be fewer deaths in Catalonia. That is absolutely unacceptable, and I would like at least you, from this rostrum, to tell us that that statement was a mistake and that you do not share it either. In relation to the descalation, I say the same thing I have said to the political formations, especially to those of a nationalist court. We respect the autonomous state. What we want, Your Honor, is simply to reinforce concerted action in the face of a pandemic that does not address borders, and without a doubt, precisely because we have given a uniform response throughout the territory, we can fortunately make an asymmetrical descalation. But I insist, the criteria, the markers, the parameters on which we will decide which territories have more or less descaled or move more or less quickly towards this new normality, must logically be homogeneous and based on science, because, if not, we would be putting at risk everything we have achieved. I thank Mr Errejón for his support for the state of alarm. I think I have answered the question of minors under the age of fourteen. There is always a certain contradiction in some interventions that are made, in which the Government is criticized for having disrupted part of the economic activity and, on the other hand, it is said that children have to go out on the street. I am not saying it as a reproach, I am saying it to make it a little empathetic with the Government's difficulty in making decisions and with the need to do pedagogy - and I am not saying it for you - so as not to run to the hasty criticism of this or other decision. I say this to you and to the whole House humbly: we are going to rectify in many decisions over the coming months, because the most important thing is to save lives, to ensure public health. In this regard, we are going to make decisions that perhaps allow a positive correction and we can do many more things. But perhaps in some localities and territories we check that progress has been made more hasty, we will have to rectify in negative and climb instead of descaling. And that will not mean a failure of the administrations that we have been involved in decision-making nor a failure on the part of citizens in social discipline, no; it is simply that we have to control the evolution of the pandemic and does not obey strict parameters such as those that, logically, we will put on the table so that they are absolutely unquestionable and objective. What we do not want, ladies and gentlemen, and this is something I want to share with you, is that we see discretion in our decisions; we do not want that discretion. I have said this here, from this rostrum: I have no pressure on my decision-making; neither pressure on the economic world nor pressure on any world. I am only advising myself, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the scientific community, which puts its knowledge at the disposal of the Government of Spain, and, logically, also on behalf of the Government of Spain and its knowledge, on behalf of each and every one of its members, because, of course, they are those who empathize with the sectors that have the most impact on decision-making. Yesterday, for example, I had the opportunity to speak with the Vice-President of Social Welfare on the issue of minors and, of course, he gave me his perspective. And when we talk, for example, with the Minister of Labour or the Economic Vice-President, we also talk about the impact of returning to the economic activity of certain sectors. Finally, I believe that these are perspectives that enrich decision-making and humbly I say to you, Your Honor - and I say to all of you - that we will have to rectify and that, in a crisis like the one we are experiencing, it is neither a symptom nor a decoordination - as has been said here by some speakers - nor a disgovernment, it is simply to face, with humility and with the certainties that we have at every moment, decisions that, logically, affect the day-to-day lives of citizens. And I say it with absolute humility. I hope and wish, ladies and gentlemen - because, in addition, some of its formations govern in autonomous communities and municipalities - that they will empathize not only with the Government of Spain, but also with the municipalities, provinces, cabilds, councils and autonomous governments that will face this transition. Mr Errejón, I may have misexplained myself, but the structural reforms you mentioned earlier have them in mind. When we talk, for example, about a different tax model, it is more than obvious. When we talk about the ecological transition, the Spanish Government continues to do things. Precisely recently we signed with different companies linked to thermal power plants a fair transition, a few days ago. When we are talking here, for example, about minimum living income and we are being criticized by some political forces of nationalist court that we have to take into account the self-government of their community, what is clearly demonstrated is that the Spanish Government is walking and does not abandon its agenda. On the contrary, I have defended from this rostrum that if the government's agenda is more justified today, it is precisely as a result of COVID-19. So, what I mean is that you don't have to have any worries. Mr. Baldoví, thank you for your support. He spoke about funding issues. The data I think you know, I have said before; we have put on the table and given a lot of liquidity to the autonomous communities; we probably need more. We are talking precisely with the Valencian Community, but what is clear is that the numbers are there. There is an increase of 7% long -7.9 if memory does not fail me - of increase in the system of autonomous financing added to the autonomous communities. That, at a time as difficult as this, is an effort that we all have to value. On the liquidity of the ICO, I would like to say that it is true that there are complaints that reach us also to the Government of Spain. We are trying to improve the governance of these guarantees. On shielding public health in the Spanish Constitution, in colloquial terms: where to sign? You can logically count on the Government and the political forces that support this Government, because clearly one of the lessons we have to draw from this crisis is the shielding of our public health system. Mr Rego, I think I have responded on the subject of descalation. We are going to take into account, logically, all the governments and we are going to have an asymmetric response, but, I insist, not only because of the particularities of the territories, but because the pandemic is not the same in Galicia as in other communities and, within Galicia, it is not the same in Ourense as in other provinces or localities such as A Coruña or Pontevedra. We have to innovate and it is going to be very important, Your Honor, very important, the collaboration of all the institutions. Mr Bal, first of all, I would like to thank you for your support for the extension of the state of alarm and for your support for this reconstruction committee. We want to get it started as soon as possible. I hope that we can reach an agreement with the political groups to launch it and, if it can be next week, better. I was criticized by Mr Esteban for, for example, wanting to convene it last Tuesday, even if we circulated a working methodology to the various political groups on Monday, after having spoken to all of you and raised at least four issues to be dealt with in this committee: public health, the economic sectors concerned, social protection and Europe. We try to be honest and respond to all political formations. Mrs Arrimadas reproached me that she had not put forward any proposals. I considered it advisable to do so, even though I was reproached for some political formations. I would like to tell you that, logically, it is in our mind that this committee is being set up as soon as possible. On the European Union, I would like to say that the Foreign Minister herself has spoken to all the MEPs of all political forces - except VOX, who did not want to join that agreement - and they are aware of, know and support the Spanish Government's proposal on this recovery fund. Mr Esteban rightly criticizes me for the legislative technique. I would already like to have more time for me, Mr. Esteban, to be able to make bills and not real decrees. I am criticized, on the one hand, that we are late from the Government and, on the other hand, that we take action through really very extraordinary figures such as the royal decree law. In any case, I understand and accept that criticism: that we have to have a much more fluid communication before the elaboration of these real decrees laws, I take it as such and we will, logically, try to inform the House or the political formations that can support them so that they are at least of the central elements. Relax under control. I think I've already answered. With regard to the parliamentary committee, I think I have also responded by referring to Mr Bal's speech. With regard to the effective State, therefore, man, I believe that the State has proved to be effective in controlling the pandemic, Mr Esteban. I can be criticized for other things, which you say: be more clear on the issue of under 14 years of age, but the state has been effective, there is the number of contagions, the evolution that there have been of four weeks to this part. There is also talk of self-supply and has made reference to industry. Look, for example, at the machines we have bought - and that we will make available not only to the Army, but also to an important cooperative in Euskadi as is the Mondragon Cooperative - for the manufacture of masks. And I believe that the distribution of masks in Euskadi, as in all the territory, was quite good, was positive. The Red Cross, the Ertzaintza and the Government Delegation worked in a coordinated way, and I think that doesn't have to be negative to recognize, at least. I naturally thank you for your support for the position in Europe. And on the minimum income, you know that we are talking with all the autonomous governments and mainly with the Basque Government. Mrs Aizpurua, the truth is that there are things you have said about basic income at European level that, if we defend them in Spain, how can we not defend them in Europe? It is true that the Government of Spain has advocated the establishment of a European inter-professional minimum wage; that we have been defending the European supplementary unemployment fund for months now, we are beginning to see the germ of all this with the unemployment insurance fund, the so-called SURE, which is to see whether we can approve it and launch it from 1 June to help us, for example, in the financing of ERTs, which are so important for the maintenance of employment in our country during this crisis. But, without a doubt, the European common income would be a very important step. It is true that the Spanish Government has defended, for example, the guarantee income for minors, which was also an element of debate in the multiannual financial framework, and we will have it in the coming months for the new budgets of the European Union. In any case, in order to respond to your concern about the MEDE, I must say that the line that has been agreed - let's see its implementation - does not have a conditionality; the only conditionality that it has is that it is used for health expenditure or expenditure linked to the COVID-19. This is the approach on which an agreement was reached, there is no more conditionality than that, and logically, if there was a conditionality, the Spanish Government would not support it. I say this more than anything to make it clear to you that doubt. I agree with you, we really need to move towards fiscal harmonisation of the European Union, which cannot be the case with tax havens. I believe that one of the problems that is also causing the crisis of COVID-19 to emerge is precisely the functioning of the internal market, and depending on how we get out of this crisis, the internal market can be badly damaged. In this respect, I would like you to know that in the proposal referred to above by Mr Echenique, the non-paper presented by the Government of Spain, and that I believe that he has been well received in Europe and in European thought circles of all kinds, not only the progressives, one of the aspects we raised was that of the fiscal harmonisation of the European Union. Again, you put to me some aspects of what we talked about in the conversation we had by videoconferencing and also in debates prior to the state of alarm. I insist, the Government has no desire to re-centralize any competition, no competition. I believe in the autonomous state, I have said this here, I believe in the virtues of the autonomous state, and I think it is a good thing that there are policies that are in the hands of those institutions that are most attached to the territory. Therefore, I do not have that resistance, but obviously we had to take control of this crisis as a result of the pandemic spreading like a sheet throughout the territory of the State. That was the will and purpose. I can be reproached, for example, that we are taking some measures that we should have previously consulted with the Autonomous Communities; well, if we had time, Your Honor, I can assure you that we would, but on some issues we do not have that time to consult with the various Autonomous Communities, although on others. We too are learning from this inter-institutional cooperation and, when we fail, it is not because of a lack of political will, but because we are learning forced marches to make very difficult decisions in a very short time. In fact, I insist, it was we - the Government of Spain - who asked the autonomous communities to contact people to start designing the descalade with them. And, in the end, Your Honor, there is not going to be so much complexity as to define those markers that are going to establish which territories can go faster or slower in that descalation, in that transition to the new normality, because, in fact, the parameters are very clear: they are linked to the capacities and resistances of our National Health System and to the evolution of the pandemic. I think the difficult, the complicated, will be at best in some bordering territories with others that go faster. That is the complexity of the challenge ahead: why in this territory yes and in this other province no. We will have to do that pedagogy because, of course, it will be very necessary. Moreover, I think it is important to recall something about that uniform response that we have given. The spokesman for Teruel Existe commented earlier when he said that there are realities, for example, in rural areas, where it is not understood that there are small, almost unpopulated municipalities that have to be confined because we want to give an answer to the main focus that Spain has right now of epidemic, such as the Community of Madrid or Catalonia. But it has its logic too, Your Honor, because, in the end, precisely these territories today see that this curve, that peak, is much flatter than in the territories that, unfortunately, have had to go ahead in the wave of the pandemic, and that has been thanks to the fact that the levels of demand have been assumed, which has caused the impact of the epidemic to be less in relative terms in those territories. And, thanks precisely to that uniform response that we have given during these four long weeks of confinement, we can now make a transition to that new normality asymmetrically. I say to the spokesman for the UPC that I share the question of justice. I do not share your vision in many of the elements of your intervention. I have been left with an element that I think is important and that is that of reorienting industrial policy towards self-sufficiency that we need from some of these materials, and the Government of Spain has been in that for weeks. On the intervention of Mrs Oramas, we are now debating with the municipalities, with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, what use to give to that surplus, to that remnant that the local corporations have. As I said before, I think they will play a fundamental role in the descalation. I would like to tell you that it is true that we are in this debate, but it is also true, ladies and gentlemen, that this month we have allowed them to use 20% of that surplus precisely for social policies; it is 300 million euros that are now far more in local municipalities and corporations to deal with social emergencies. [[Rumors]] It will be insufficient for you, I do not say no, and that we have to open this debate, no doubt, but it will recognise me that, at least during this month, we have taken steps in that direction. On the question of France and Portugal, I think I would remind you that we too are in line with this request from the outermost regions, but in commenting to me you will make sure that, if not, we are, of course, missing more! As far as social and economic reconstruction is concerned, Your Honor, this is not the first time that we have experienced a crisis, albeit not of this magnitude, in the Canary Islands. I would like to remind you, for example, of the crisis of the British operator, which in the morning was declared bankrupt and the Spanish Government acted and was empathetic with the most damaged autonomous communities. Therefore, logically, we will be with the Canary Islands in this very complicated situation. And the same question I can transfer to Mr Quevedo. I am grateful to both of you for supporting the extension of the state of alarm and I would like to say that in the territorial transition we have very much in mind the reality of the Canary Islands and some islands, which, fortunately, have not been registering new cases or dead for weeks. Mr Sayas, I think I have answered some of the questions you have commented on. The issue of gardens has been raised not only by the President of Navarre, Mrs Chivite, but also by the President of Aragon, Mr Lambán, and the spokesman for Teruel Existe. What I want you to understand is that the Spanish Government does not want and cannot and should not see the whole case in this descalation. Therefore, the contribution and knowledge of the territories is very important and we take this into account. Of course, as soon as we begin the transition to this new normality, these approaches that have been made by the various autonomous presidents will be very much taken into account and it will also be very soon. Mr. Mazón is very grateful for the morale of victory that he has raised and conveyed from this rostrum. And I also thank you for making an appeal to unity, which I think is important in this social and economic reconstruction agreement. Because, indeed, we have the challenge of our lives; the challenge of our lives. What is decided in this House - the 350 Members in this Parliament - is going to mark the next generations, and in every crisis, even if this is a tragedy, there are great opportunities to make things better. It is true - here it has been said - that we not only have to talk about reconstruction - the spokesman of Bildu commented that she considers that it is not necessary to rebuild, but I believe it is - but also about construction. We need to rebuild and build, and there are issues that we logically need to transform if we are to win the future. One of the key issues is the digital transition. The digital transition is seen not only in teleworking or territorial cohesion, to which some of the groups included in the Joint Group always refer, but also in education. We're seeing her in education. Digitization has to be much more present in our public education system. This is one of the lessons we also need to learn from this crisis. Mr. Oblanca, thank you for your support. His criticism is usually the usual and I don't share it. In any case, I consider it normal, the one you always do when you come up to the rostrum. And Mr. Guitarte I think I've moved more or less all the approaches to asymmetry in descalation. Mrs Lastra, spokesman for the Socialist Group, is very grateful for all the support that her group is giving me and also for the tone of her speech. Not only in the content, but also in the forms the Socialist Parliamentary Group demonstrates once again that it has a point of difference, and that justifies that with regard to other political formations we are the first political formation of this Congress. In any case, I thank everyone and all their interventions and the constructive tone. We have weeks ahead of us to finally overcome the pandemic and start a new phase that will be very complicated, ladies and gentlemen, which will require a lot of humility and empathy on the part of all political forces. You are certain that the Spanish Government is working to ensure that citizens, when they recover that new normality, come out with the maximum certainty and certainty in a world right now, logically, full of uncertainty. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, 435 Spaniards have died in the last 24 hours. It's already 21,717 in total. He hasn't devoted a minute of his reply to giving these figures. Can you tell us why you're hiding them? What strange moral eclipse do they accomplish? In his speech, of 8624 words, not a single self-criticism. He says his management has been effective. 22 000 dead is effectiveness? His unique command has been the unique multiplier of the crisis. It said the Australian study, which you have not quoted today - you have not even bothered to manipulate, like last week's Oxford study - that the rate of spread of the virus in a country is directly proportional to the ineffectiveness of your Government's response. His spokesperson today quoted the New York Times. Did you read it yesterday? He says that Spain is at the head of the dead per capita with an unorbited percentage, 66% more than normal. In case you read it, March 30: The kamikazes of Spanish health fight against the virus. In case he read Le Monde - all of them newspapers called progressives -, on March 10: Spain realizes that the magnitude of the epidemic is behind schedule. The Guardian, March 26th: How did Spain give such a wrong answer to the Coronarivus? The Observer of Portugal, 27 March: Pedro Sánchez, the face of failure and irresponsibility. The Republic, Italy, 6 April: Catastrophic balance, delay in the Government's reaction, drama of senior residences and very high rate of contagion of health care workers. Bloomberg, April 6: Spain's tragedy was predictable. Der Spiegel, April 15: The Government of Spain began the fight against the virus late, probably too late. Are these the bubbles you're referring to, or isn't the BOE here, Mr. Sánchez? You say it's not about turning off the fire, it's about rebuilding the common house. Do you intend to stay like Nero, touching the lira while Rome burns? What is it about rebuilding after the fire? What do you intend, to burn everything down, the burned land, to confine us to our homes as the fire advances to destroy employment, social welfare, and then to take advantage of that reconstruction that we ask for with expropriations, with a new social, labor and economic model? Don't lower your arms, Mr. Sanchez, don't give up. Before we talk about destruction - the reconstruction proposed at this table, I don't know what it's left on - we should avoid destruction and put out the fire, but not with flamethrowers - i.e. with false masks and fraudulent testing - but with efficiency and competence. The fires go out in winter, they are planned to prepare for the summer campaign, but you didn't do it, not because Spanish public health wasn't up to it, but because you denied the warnings, lying to the Spaniards and exposing them to a contagion, selling them peace of mind negligently. Why did they not heed the letter of 7 March from the Community of Madrid, in which he spoke of imminent risk and proposed to cancel the mobilizations? Health has been up to it, don't talk bad about Spanish health, don't make any noises about health personnel. A government report of 21 February - now that they are talking about rebuilding the system as well - said that the Davos Forum has Spanish health in first place, together with Japan, Singapore and Hong Kong; it said that Bloomberg claimed that Spain was the world's first healthy country; that The Lancet, the medical bible, placed us among the twenty countries in the world with better health, and that the barometer of the 2018 Ministry of Health, the last, said that the good or very good satisfaction of primary care users was 86%, specialists 88%, and emergencies 77%. And this study also said that we were the second country in the world to eradicate hepatitis C - by the way, they forgot to say that it was thanks to the 720 million euros managed by the People's Party - with 130 000 affected. What has therefore failed here is the protection of the Government of health professionals, who are the first in the world to become infected, 33 000 already, and who have already caused thirty casualties because of the disease. From here I ask you to consider the death of these people as an occupational accident to improve the pension for their orphans and their partners. Mr Sánchez, you have also said that depending on how the pandemic goes, you will have to take steps forward and steps back. Well, this isn't new, it's your usual yenka. But Spain needs certainties and tranquility, no bandages and incompetence. Abandon now the node of the weekends, we are tired of having five press conferences broadcast on all televisions at all times so that they don't say anything, offer no solution but rallies. Explain to us why this company, Interpharma - so close to where the minister lives - has received 17 million euros to buy fake tests and that this company has been licensed two days after that purchase. Explain to us if you are going to ask for the ransom, as the Italian Prime Minister said in the Italian Senate, and say it here. What's the cost going to be? Or are we worse off than the Italian senators? Tell us why they don't pay the ERTE. Doesn't the public treasury have liquidity anymore? Why are they telling companies in secret to carry forward the money of the ERTE, as Zapatero did in August 2010, when he did not want to admit that the public coffers were broken? This is the House in which you have to account for how the economy is and give less sophistication. And tell us immediately why you lied to the Spaniards. The European Union has just said, through Eurostat, that you have deceived the public deficit, which is not 2.64%: it is 2.82%. You have hidden 3 billion euros. Stop lying now in these circumstances. That's all right.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u59	Mr. Married, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u60	Yes, I'm done, Madam President. Explain to us how this one war that is waging Spain, which is in your government, is going to end. Are you going to win Calviño or Díaz? Are you going to win Churches or Write? His second vice president has already advised countries such as Venezuela, Bolivia and Ecuador on economic issues. We know how they ended. And that cry to storm the skies in Sintagma Square in Athens ended up assaulting cashiers, with a corralite that cut pensions, civil servants' salaries and unemployment benefits up to 40% in Greece. And explain to us why the fourth vice president says that it's wonderful that oil falls, isn't it that their ideological glasses don't let them see the hecatombe that's coming? Mr Sánchez, if unity were the balm of Fierabrás, countries would not choose democratic regimes. The unity cannot be to silence the opposition, the social media, the media or this Parliament. What is needed is effectiveness and the number of official deaths. Yes, Mrs. Lastra said that it is not the government's responsibility. What do you mean, no? The Civil Registry reports to the Ministry of Justice. But don't worry because we'll know, there's nothing more to compare the INE, the ones who died in March and April of this year with those of other years, when above by confinement there are no traffic accidents or work accidents. Say it now, avoid that. And they don't lie to me that we despise health personnel. He sent a letter to the health advisers in July 2019 asking for cuts in health care was the Socialist Ministry of Finance. Nor do you say that private health has to be repudiated by you: your first vice president and your secretary of organization, Santos Cerdán, have been cured in a private clinic, which we think very well, but lessons to us, the just. And don't say we're the country of the world with the most test; we're the country twenty-nine in the world, in case those tests worked.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u61	Mr. Married, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u62	I'm done. I do answer your questions, it's been three. Police don't talk to me, that Luis Roldán's party in this House doesn't talk about State Security Forces and Corpses. Of Fedea do not speak, because you say that the contagions with the confinement would have narrowed. Of course, they were done, but what he says is that if it had been launched a week earlier, 62% of those contagions would have been avoided, and he ends up saying in his conclusions that the government was late for lack of forecasting. He says the contagions have gone down in these 45 days; man, it was just missing! But not thanks to the Government, but despite the Government and the efforts made by all Spaniards. And he says that Spain's problem is the aging population, and Japan, which is the country of the world's oldest, which is stuck to China and has only 300 dead? Stop fooling us, Mr. Sanchez. There are 22,000 dead Spaniards who can't admit more hairdos anymore. Finally, you say that COVID-19 is an iceberg. He's right about that, and his government is the Titanic, but don't pretend we're his orchestra. Take the rudder, run it at once, or at least run the lifeboats, Captain Sanchez. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u63	Thank you, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, I advised him, I asked him, I begged him in the previous plenary to stop talking about total victory, which was something we could no longer achieve with tens of thousands of dead. They've started talking about victory morale today. I ask you to be more cautious and, when you speak in these terms and avoid official mourning, I ask you if you avoid official mourning precisely in order to be able to speak in these terms, the official mourning that we owe to the tens of thousands of dead and that once again from this rostrum we ask you again. I believe that anyone who has heard his appearance today, beyond his tone, has not been able to remain calmer, but has had to leave more concerned. Any Spaniard who has turned on the television has seen you talking about what already seems to be going on to be a state of permanent alarm, in which he recognizes us that we are going to test and error in the decontainment, in which he gives us no kind of horizon, in which he gives us no kind of certainty. This makes you, without a doubt, the mouthpiece of uncertainty to deal with decontainment, because there is no test for Spanish people to know if they are healthy or sick, if they are immunized or if they can get out. Because you can no longer tell the Spaniards if they will be able to lift their blind or when they will be able to do so. You can't tell people who have a bar that they're going to be able to open it again or who have a hotel establishment. It is not giving any kind of certainty to all those people who have had to pass the credit card through their own business to pay self-employed contributions or social security contributions, as many self-employed people tell us. That's what causes stress and social alarm, Mr. Sánchez. You have once again invoked The New York Times, which you care so much about. I don't know what he says about VOX nor do I care, but indeed The New York Times, which seems to be the chair for you, gave yesterday some data that are not exactly what Mr. Casado said, but established that it was Spain that was the country in which there was the most difference between the official deaths you declare and the real deaths that are occurring by coronavirus. That's exactly what the article in The New York Times said. I listened to Mr. Married carefully. He has spoken forcefully and vehemently. He spoke clearly and I think he represented the feeling of many Spaniards who are losing patience. We've already lost her. I am surprised that Mr. Married still has so much patience with you, even though he is reaching out and you systematically attack them in this rostrum. Mr Casado is the leader of the opposition, although at the moment I believe that the opposition is exercising VOX. Mr. Married, who may have a bipartisan resabio in all this, is the leader of the second party and is already the holy Job in this House with you. Mr Sánchez, a few weeks ago we proposed that we mobilize, ask for EUR 80 billion to pay the salaries and salaries of self-employed and wage earners, and talk about how this debt was being dealt with in a war scenario. I mean, we talked about perpetual bonds. You didn't pay any attention. Mr. George Soros has had to come in the newspaper El País, today, to talk about perpetual bonds so that you go up to this rostrum to say the same thing. But we are not saying the same thing, because you and Mr Soros are asking for perpetual bonds for reconstruction and we are asking you not to destroy the productive fabric. You do it to bet on globalism, on the end of borders, and we do it to defend sovereignty. Even if you miss these things I tell you, they represent many Spaniards you don't want to listen to. Mr Soros and you want minimum income and reasoning cards, and we want those bonds to do justice and give each Spaniard what he deserves and what he earned. Because we do not want a society of sheep, but of free men and women. He's come back to talk about the bubbles. This time you haven't talked about bots, because after the bots you've linked in the Ministry of Health you've been a little more cautious. I would ask you to tell us at the next appearance about the new definitions of bubbles and lapsus, in which you are innovating in an extraordinary way and that perhaps, as with inclusive language, you end up affecting the Dictionary of the Royal Academy. He came here to tell me, among other things - he also brought them prepared - that I am afraid. I am not afraid of you or Mr. Iglesias, but many Spaniards are afraid of you, many Spaniards are afraid of your government and it is normal. I reminded you today of some videos of Mr. Churches, which are not brought here by anything, and I am surprised how you even fool yourselves by doing as if you didn't know. When I mentioned the video of Mr. Iglesias in which he said that he was excited when he kicked some cops, you made a gesture to him like what he's talking about, and Mr. Iglesias pretended that he didn't know what he was talking about either. When I mentioned to you the video that worries the Spaniards the most, that of Mr Iglesias saying that we must take advantage of the exceptional moments to implement the communist agenda, you also make no mention, and I believe that you, who speak so much of empathizing, which is the word that repeats most during these appearances, should empathize with so many Spaniards who are truly afraid that your vice president is taking advantage of this tragic moment of the pandemic to advance his political agenda. Mr Sánchez, I do not think you can continue to be the spokesman for uncertainty, you cannot continue with these partners in the government, and that is why we reiterate our position: pay the payroll and leave, please. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u65	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Echenique Robba.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u66	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to apologize on behalf of this House to all the Spaniards for what they have just heard. I think that people who are having a bad time in this epidemic, both in terms of health and in economic terms, do not deserve certain things that we see in this House; I am certainly ashamed of myself and I am sure that a lot of people in their homes too, so, although I am not directly responsible for what we have just heard, I apologize to the Spaniards for what we have just heard from this rostrum. I believe - and I have said this more than once - that in five or ten years' time the Journal of Sessions will portray each and every one of our people and show the whole of our people what has been done by every Member, every Member of the Government at such difficult times, and what we have just heard will also be recorded in the Journal of Sessions. I go back to the constructive thing, which is our job and what people deserve in such a difficult situation. And by adding more elements to the debate - in my first speech I have spoken about the present, I have spoken about what has been done so far - I simply wanted to point out in this reply some elements towards the future with regard to the country reconstruction agreements that we will have to work on in the coming weeks and months. There are lessons that emerge, as the President of the Government has rightly said; I think it is clear that public health, public health in our country, must be strengthened. Perhaps one of the explanations of Germany's data is that they have many more ICU beds per inhabitant and many more nurses and doctors per inhabitant than our country, and that has some causes that we all know. Another obvious lesson from this epidemic is that we have to make a revolution in the care economy, that we have to take care of the dependents and the elderly in another way and, from what we have seen in the residences, we also know what the causes are. And I believe that, in addition to these elements, we must bet on an intelligent exit from the economic crisis and on having a leadership of public investment in strategic sectors, in which I also believe that our country can objectively have a competitive advantage. It is clear that in the green economy, in renewable energies, this is the case, and this is the case because of the climate peculiarities that Spain has and because of the technological level of our country. And there are other sectors, such as the digital economy. We have a very well-formed society and, in addition, with Internet connectivity of the best in Europe. I believe that there is also room there to emerge from the crisis in a powerful way with public leadership. In the biomedical sector we also have the capacity to lead the continent in high value-added jobs and to have a more resilient economy when the economic crisis returns. There's a lot of talk about scientists. Mr President, I think you are right when you base the government's action in these difficult times on scientific knowledge. I, as a scientist, have to tell you that in recent years science has been very mistreated in our country at the level of public investment. And it is vital that in the economic outflow, we also bet on innovation in our country, on the Public System of Science and Innovation. And I didn't want to leave myself, lastly, in the cultural sector. We are fortunate that one of our languages, the main language, the most spoken language, the Spanish language, is spoken in many countries of the world. Hundreds of millions of people speak our language in Latin America. We have a cultural sector that is already booming, that can be more and that can be an economic engine. There is also an important economic exit from this crisis and where Spain can be at the forefront. Finally, I return to Europe. I wish you luck tomorrow. I know that European negotiations are not easy. Our parliamentary group believes that the position of the Spanish Government is courageous, and we hope that something similar can be achieved at the European Council. Because being a patriot is not wearing a bracelet with the flag, being a patriot means that EUR 1.5 billion is not loans, but that it allows our country to face this crisis in a more powerful way, our country to be stronger and Europe to be stronger too. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u67	Thank you, Mr. Echenique. [[A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum used by Mr. Echenique Robba]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u68	Thank you very much, President. I begin by denouncing that, as everyone knows, the Madrid High Court of Justice has sentenced a person to 19 months in prison and a fine of disqualification for stopping a eviction. Article 47 of the Constitution. All my support from here to Isa Serra and a hug for her. We said from the beginning that whoever believed that the drift of a part of the judiciary was going to end or end up in front of or against the independenceists was wrong. He was wrong, and I think he's a palm tree. All the support from here. Mr. Married, our condolences for your uncle's death. Did you or do you have someone to tell you the words Mr. Sanchez said? I hope it's a program and I don't have anyone telling words. He said 8342, specifically. But most of all I want to comment on it. You speak of the People's Party as if it were something miraculous in institutions, like a miracle. The last miracle of the People's Party is in Soto del Real, so I'd be a little more cautious. The truth is that I have listened to you, Mr President, I think that is what parliamentarianism is about, and I am extremely surprised that there are representatives and spokespersons here with scripts and prefabricated speeches. I think the difference between whether this is a theatre or a Parliament is precisely in listening to us and answering us, so I'm going to try to answer it. First of all, the complaints of criticism, which you do not reproach, or not only reproach - I believe that reproach leads little, but criticism can lead to much, and for our part they are criticisms - to re-centralisation. Truth be told, Mr. President and some members of the government, you guys are acting like that weird joke of the car in contradiction, aren't you? All the cars go in the opposite direction; if we tell virtually all the parliamentary groups; if we tell you practically all the parliamentary arc that you have re-centralised and that only makes the situation worse, I would say that you would have to make it look at it. I have given you two examples, France and Germany. France, single decision, single command from the Elysée, and Germany, division of decision power into sixteen Länder. I think the differences between some data and others are palm trees. Someone, through the networks, to try to argue against this comparison that I made, set me an example to America. U.S., as if it were a hyperfederal state. Well, I think the comparison is, at least, suspicious, more than anything because it is worth remembering that the United States has 328 million inhabitants, it is logical that the data are what they are; instead, France and Germany have 67 million and 83 million, respectively. I think we should start from now on the asymmetrical territorial descalation; I firmly believe it, and it is not nationalism, it is simply efficiency. Two, communication. You call the press conference yesterday morning around the outings of boys and girls prudent. The truth is, it was a mistake, it was nothing, it was a mistake. The positive thing is that you listened, you listened to some of us, and I think there's nothing wrong with listening, and I think that on many occasions you've bunkered. Three, ask or ask that Republican Left be brave. With all due respect, Mr President, as everyone knows, I have the honour of representing a party with ninety years of history, with a president shot by fascism, with a president imprisoned for defending his ideas, with a general secretariat in exile for defending his ideas, with a hundred charges against a judge for defending his ideas. The truth is that the question is answered alone: we are quite brave and here we continue. And, four, dialogue table. I absolutely agree that we must not postpone the problems; I congratulate myself on this, I think we can talk about life and politics, especially because the alternative to us is the extreme right, the extreme right, people who consider that eating is socialcommunist, that is the alternative, and above all people who, when they see death, fly in circles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u69	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u70	Mr. Sánchez, we don't discuss the state of alarm, we discuss your state of alarm. He said it again, this is like pacts, now yes, now not. What are we left with? Does the virus understand borders or does it not? Do you want us to talk about Andorra? Are we talking about Portugal? I am talking about the countries with which Spain has a border. The figures show what we say, and there is one obvious fact: Spain has the worst figures in the world. And, humbly, yes, we were absolutely able to improve this situation. If anything has become clear, there are at least two major models to be able to react to this pandemic: the Jacobin reaction of centralist states such as Spain and the reaction of federal states such as Germany, which opt for decentralization. Even that of small States that have had the tools to combat the virus effectively and in close proximity. Catalonia wants to be part of this last bloc, so it is now more evident than ever that having full competences is essential to improve the life of citizens, and to have a State that makes it difficult, hinders and delays directly in this case is lethal. So, if you are so proud and defend the state of self-government, give us back the powers, because facing the worst crisis with the lowest powers is the responsibility of this government. And in his interventions he spoke more of unity than of health, he spoke more of the unity of Spain than of the health of the Spaniards. Presumes speed and anticipation when what marks your management is to go to trailer and rectification. He assumes that they have sinned with prudence; we told them that they were reckless. It has assumed to take the most drastic measures at the global level, but drastic would have been to decree total confinement before, in time; drastic and necessary would have been to approve citizenship income in time; drastic and necessary would have been to suspend payments of taxes, rents and supplies; and drastic and necessary would have been to strengthen the health system to the maximum, starting with the staff, who feel more unprotected than ever, and to provide them with massive tests and non-defective material, which is fundamental and which we continue to wait for. With the will of dialogue and listening that so much fencing, the normal thing would have been to attend to what President Torra asked of him, who ended up imposing himself by reasonable and inevitable, and Mr Casado did not say it but I say it to him: Catalonia asked what they had to end up doing. And it is clear, Mr Sánchez, that all the governments have been overtaken by COVID-19, which have failed in the forecasts, which have erred in decisions that were key; however, the Catalan Government and President Torra at the head have made self-criticism, have renewed decisions with government restructurings even and with transparency and sincere communication. And you ask me to come up here and somehow refute the statements made by the spokesman for the Catalan Government, when I subscribe to them, and I subscribe to them because we have reason to believe that having an independent State the answer would have been more agile and the actions more effective. Look, only with fiscal sovereignty would we have been able to go beyond the moratoriums and could we have suspended payments for the self-employed and entrepreneurs. They are his words - you said it a moment ago -: there are policies that are better managed near the territory. We give him every reason. We think that all policies are better managed near the territory. We also wanted to talk about Europe and there is reticence. In 2008 Europe lost the great opportunity to act as the European Union. It acted late and in a manifestly insufficient way. He has now reacted with reticence. It should be noted that the reluctance stems precisely from the fact that after six years of sustained growth the public accounts of the Spanish State have been unable to meet the deficit targets that Europe pointed out. The people's government was incapable and the Socialist Party's government was also incapable, and it is the central administration that has been in non-compliance, because the autonomous communities have been forced to meet more ambitious deficit targets than they were at the time they had yet to revise the financing system since 2014, that is, by unilateral decision of the State. Neither are the local corporations responsible for this breach, because they have recorded a surplus that we are now saying could be intended to alleviate the consequences of this crisis. It is very good to ask for solidarity, but we have to be responsible, and Spain is the country that most European directives fail, especially in public procurement: 14 billion are due to self-employed people and SMEs, and this non-compliance causes unemployment and poverty, so we can ask for more. We are pleased that you will come here and explain to us that tomorrow you will go to this meeting, but we also need to know how you will manage the resources that we can already access and what participation the territorial administrations will have in the management of these resources, which - let us not forget - are competent in almost all the areas in which this crisis affects. It will have to tell us how, with an extended budget far removed from this need, they will deal with all this, because in this theoretically decentralized Spanish State, only the central government has the key to the box and now it is time to decentralise expenditure. He was talking to me about centralized purchasing and efficiency. For forty years Catalonia has had the health transferred and twenty years the rest of the autonomous communities. That is why centralized purchasing management has been inefficient. So I'm telling you - and I'm done with this - not to hide behind smoke curtains anymore. He attempted it after a revival of the Pacts de la Moncloa, which more accurately mutated at an economic and social reconstruction table, which was convened and deconvoked in less than eight hours, a new record, like that of the BOE, which, with nightiness and lightness, have application twenty minutes after being published. I'd ask you for less improvisation...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u71	Mrs. Borràs, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u72	I'm gonna finish it. ... A little more serious; after so many weeks up and down, this has now been converted by a pact into a parliamentary committee, informing the rest of the parliamentary groups of the press. In Catalonia, we have told you, the only pact we need is respect for the right of self-determination. I'm done, President. Today is the day of the earth and Victor Hugo wrote that produces an immense sadness that nature speaks while the human race does not listen to it. Listen to me, please, Mr. Sanchez. Stop strengthening the centralization of the State. Transfer budgetary resources, transfer European resources, transfer debt capacity and also transfer management capacity, to make everyone more effective, to save lives for all, with determination, with self-determination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Catalina. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u74	Thank you, President. Good afternoon now. It is a matter of responsibility today to support the state of alarm and the confinement, indeed, with that hand stretched out, loyal and also demanding, because in the end that demand asks you, Mr President, to change the improvisation by planning, to change the unilaterality by consensus, to change the mistakes by the right. In this sense, with this positive and constructive will we have presented our alternatives to the actual decree of the state of alarm, to which we will vote that yes, and I will not list them all, but yes some of them, as is the obligation of the Ministry of Health and of the sole command in relation to the supply of health products and also tests - not only with regard to essential activities, but also with regard to workers who rejoin their jobs in those activities that are already classified as non-essential - in pharmacies, so that no one has to rejoin their jobs without having had the security, through a reliable test, of not being infected and not being able to contaginate, which is really the most relevant. There is also the question that I have put before you in relation to the departure, starting next Monday, of the children under the age of fourteen, because it will indeed be no more a remedy for you than to rectify the improvised measure, yes, and wrongly adopted, and in that sense we would incorporate as an alternative proposal that these children under the age of fourteen could go out for outdoor walks accompanied by one of their parents or caregivers in the vicinity of their home, for a certain time and always under health protection. We were also concerned about another issue and, therefore, we raised the need to create within the Ministry of Justice an observatory to study how fundamental rights of all kinds have been affected precisely in relation to the state of alarm, the correct ones and the mistakes, in order to learn for the future precisely those mistakes that it is difficult to recognize. But, above all, where I want to stress that you have used the excuse of the suspension of administrative deadlines, which is a measure we share, to completely paralyse the transparency portal and the Transparency and Good Government Council by saying that administrative procedures are in suspense and, therefore, so is the publication on the transparency portal or the requirement for information to the Government, for example, as I have already said, regarding procurement procedures and intermediaries in the purchase of health material. We carry it in our alternative precisely as an exception to this suspension of administrative procedures because it is a requirement of democratic quality, of regeneration. It is a requirement that freedom of the press and the information that citizens demand and require precisely in order to achieve greater peace of mind when they are confined in their homes are not limited in the state of alarm. It is absolutely necessary that this transparency portal be launched. We have seen how precisely the fulfilment of these obligations of information is what leads to the acceptance of our system of freedoms, which in addition to the acceptance of the fundamental principles of the separation of powers in our State and which should call responsibility to its second vice-president when in the realization of this plenary it says that the conviction of a person of his party, Isa Serra, seems unfair to him - Mr Rufián himself has just said it now - a sentence in which the proven facts point out that there were insults, pushes and throws of objects, which will then be legally valued as it is but which leaves no doubt about the facts, about those facts that the court perceives directly. Therefore, no, separation of powers, transparency, freedom of opinion, freedom of information, ultimately the 1978 Constitution, which has achieved these forty years of progress and peace. Therefore, we offer those reconstruction pacts, to restore that spirit, to both Mr Casado and Mr Sánchez, so that they can agree, with agility, and not with bureaucracy, with utility and solutions, not with photos or medals, at the service of the Spaniards. Mr Sánchez, Mr Casado and the Citizens' Party in the centre, as a bridge between the two, precisely to help these solutions. I remind you: loyalty and demands, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u75	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mr Esteban Bravo. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Look, President, I don't want to argue with you about the effectiveness or otherwise of the state, but it is true that the state has a mastodontic dimension and is not used to doing certain things and has had to rectify. It began by trying to centralize all purchases, and it quickly came to the conclusion, fortunately, that making it possible for the autonomous communities to operate on their own and without holding all the means in the hands of the State could be far more effective. There have been shipments that have not arrived, there have been aircraft that have not arrived, defective masks, which have also been distributed, there have been tests on two occasions that were not correct, that did not have to be bought. But I don't want to argue with that, it's already over and I also understand the difficulties in acting that there are many times. I wanted to highlight a matter that I think we need to pay attention to. I wasn't talking to him about industry, I was talking to him about the ENAC, the entity he believes, and about health, because there has been a real jam - that's what I meant with the bottleneck - when it comes to approving products. They have finally been approved, but it has taken more that approval examination than it took to prepare and present it, and that cannot be, because it was sanitary material, and I am talking about material of first necessity. Perhaps the action of the Administration should have been strengthened, I think you should take a look at all this, although I understand that something is already moving forward, and speed things up. But this was not, above all, the reason for my second intervention. You know that many times I don't usually intervene, but this time it has given me the feeling that we were still talking on different waves you and I and wanted to make things a little clearer. We are not arguing with him that this descalation - I don't like this name - has to be done or not in autonomous communities completely. It may have to be done in some places, in others not, etc. I do not discuss it, I am not even discussing that there must be coordination with homogeneous criteria, with homogeneous parameters, I think it is correct. In fact, that committee that you mentioned and for which the Autonomous Communities have also appointed a number of experts will fix it. But what I do discuss with you and what I have not just deduced from your words, but I take the opposite view, is that, if you are going to do this, those who must apply it, adapt it in the territorial and social spheres are the highest representatives of the State in the autonomous communities, because they are also the ones who have the closest data in each of them, beyond whether it is going to apply in the whole community. Therefore, using these parameters, to whom should the specific application correspond? To the highest representatives, who are the presidents or presidents of the autonomous communities. Honestly, I can't imagine or I don't want to imagine Mr. Illa saying that in Lekeitio yes and in Bermeo no. We have fifteen days to a possible - I hope not, I hope not necessary - further prolongation of the state of alarm. If this happens and, therefore, that will have to come to this Parliament within 15 days, let us talk about how these mechanisms are going to be. From his words what I deduce are unique parameters, which I do not discuss, but is that the Government will say that even locally. He has even quoted the municipalities on several occasions. I would remind you that there is still a maximum representation of the State within the autonomous community and that it is those administrations that have the overall data of their localized territorial scope in order to be able to make a more correct application of those measures that you or those generic parameters that will be marked by that commission or by the Spanish Government itself. I therefore wanted to focus on what area we are moving on and, if we are going to an extension of the state of alarm, to take all this into account, because, if not, we might have problems. We have 15 days to work on all this. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u77	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u78	Thank you, President. Mr Sánchez, it is true - we are seeing it - that psychologically we are already in progressive descalation. Mentally, we've put ourselves there, citizens have put themselves there, and this Congress seems to be already within that framework. But I want to remind you that we are not safe from the coronavirus yet, I think it is important to point that out. It is true that the health system moves away from that risk of collapse, or from collapse at times, there are fewer incomes than high, but I do not think we should let go. And we must not forget that this situation has been achieved in the health field by doubling shifts, with an impressive stress on the staff, also in the area of management, that this is going to pass the bill and that it cannot be maintained in time. I think it is important to point this out and not to forget it, and I am saying this so that social pressure does not lead anyone to measures which, in haste, lead to risks. He has commented that countries cannot be compared. It's true, it can't be done, basically because the data that there are are not homogeneous, and some speak of one thing in some terms and others give the figures at other levels, with which, if there isn't something homogeneous, it's very difficult to serve for much. However, I do believe that there are some data in this regard that can at least help us to establish a position. The Institut Pasteur, which is the reference centre for epidemiology in the French State, estimates that only 5.7% of the French population will have passed the coronavirus by mid-May. In this area the situation may be similar. The WHO recommendations, as you know, amount to between 60% and 70% of the optimal level of immunity to start taking action. I may be pious, but I think it's necessary right now. He has spoken of the descalation and has also spoken of the fact that it will be decentralized, at different levels. Much remains to be really clarified, we do not yet get to the idea of what this approach will look like. But logic says that, in any case, autonomy will be taken into account, so I have been able to understand your intervention and your explanations. Well, in this sense, logic also calls for dialogue tables by autonomous communities. We are asking this from the outset and we hope that the Basque Government will accept it, take it into account and set up that table, which has so far been refused to do. Finally, with regard to the MEDE funds, I reiterate all the reservations I have shown in my intervention, because the unconditional financial aid to which you have referred will only be for medical expenses and in the first viral phase. Once that moment has passed, we are afraid that we will have to resort to the path of the loan, because that is not tied up and there is the risk that I pointed out in my intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u80	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is, Mr. Married, I see that you do not give in to your efforts. How radical and extreme your intervention will have been for Mr Abascal to congratulate you. And it is that it has already won them in extremism, in radicality, in irresponsibility. And that makes me think of the bad luck that we have always had in this country with this right, with this right in the opposition, because this does not happen in any other country of the European Union. The new British Labour leader told the right-wing Prime Minister: It is time for unity of proposals, to work with the government for the national interest, and not for the interest of the opposition. Closer to you ideologically if you want, the leader of the Portuguese right said to the Socialist Prime Minister: Prime Minister, I wish you courage, nerves of steel and much luck, because your luck is our luck. But he did not stay there, but two days ago he sent a letter to the militants of his party saying that attacking the Government in these circumstances is neither ethically correct nor patriotic. He tells his militants. It may be your militants here who have to tell you. Believe me, citizens would understand that you were exercising responsibility, and I tell you this from a party that has always promoted or joined all the great agreements in the country. By responding to some of the things you said, you are taking out a letter from CAM on March 7, and I was thinking about where you would be on March 7, following the recommendations of the Madrid Community surely. No, you were with Mr. Carlos Iturgaiz in an act talking about Bildu. Those are the recommendations that you yourself followed from CAM. Mr. Married, you're talking about lethality again. I didn't mean it in my first intervention, but now I'm going to say it: Do you know what the third region of the world with the highest mortality rate is? It is not Asturias nor Extremadura nor Castilla-La Mancha nor Valencia, it is Madrid, Mr. Casado, after New York and Lombardy. As with this debate, what we are trying to do - at least he is speaking to you - is to try to transfer an image of unity to Spanish society and, therefore, of hope, which is what they expect from us, I announce to you that, after the meetings held by the President of the Government with all the spokesmen of this House, with all the political forces, throughout the rest of this week the Socialist Group will contact all of them, with all of them, to promote the reconstruction committee, on the basis of these four themes that we have talked about: strengthening health, revitalizing the productive fabric and the economy, social protection and the pact for Europe. And it must be an agile commission - I agree with other speakers -, an operational commission, which allows for agreement to be reached as soon as possible, with as much consensus as possible, and, as I said before, where all the political forces of the House are represented. That is the commitment of my parliamentary group. I have my doubts, Mr President - and I have to tell you this - about the intention of some of the forces in this House, in this case the first opposition party, of that committee. But for this party, for this parliamentary group, it is not going to stay, and I am sure that for the majority neither. On some doubts raised by some parliamentary groups regarding the committee, the agreements that we have reached in it will obviously respect the autonomous state scrupulously, the powers transferred, but also being aware in that case that there is basic state legislation and that, therefore, we must also talk about that. There is hope, we have to be a Parliament equal to the citizens of this country so that we can reach the agreements that our country needs as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Five questions. First, thank the political forces that will support the extension of the state of alarm. Secondly, transfer some consideration, for example, to Bildu's spokesman. Indeed, we are in confinement, we must not lower the guard and, consequently, I think it is very important to be aware of the moment we are. It is true that we are overcoming the pandemic, that we are bending the curve, but we cannot lower the guard and, therefore, we must sin with prudence and be cautious. I believe that we need to translate that spirit into our public interventions, or at least that is the approach taken by the Spanish Government. Thirdly, with regard to the descalation, which Mr Esteban and some other speakers mentioned earlier, of course we are right now building this governance mechanism. There is the Ministry of Health and also the Vice-President of Ecological Transition and Demographic Challenge, who is going to execute this descalation, and we are in contact with all the autonomous communities. The first video conference took place last Monday. The previous week, from a technical point of view, there had already been contacts with those responsible for each and every one of the autonomous communities. Monday - if not, the Minister of Health can correct me - was at the political level with those autonomous communities that have appointed a political leader. It seems to me that the only one who has not yet appointed the Health Adviser is precisely the Basque Government. Therefore, I want to say with this that you know perfectly well that we are already working with all the autonomous communities, and what we are doing with them is defining the parameters, the markers on which we are going to program that descalation. It is true that there are countries that are doing it is a much more linear approach: this day we are going to do this, this other day we are going to do the other. I believe that we need to make a much more asymmetrical approach and, therefore, the involvement of the autonomous communities in design and implementation is very important in this regard. I want us to find that point of balance between the Government of Spain and the autonomous communities, and I am convinced that we will find it, Your Honor, without doubt. Of course, it is in the spirit of the Government of Spain, because we are aware that there is a territorial area that is much more effective in its hands than in those of the Government of Spain in this case. For us the most important thing, Your Honor, is to define in a homogeneous way those markers, which do not have to be the same, depending on the stages of that descalation. These markers can vary and, consequently, their development and implementation can be implemented with the coordination of the Spanish Government and the cooperation of the Spanish Government. I would like to be less abstract, but I have to tell you - and you know it, because it is a government party - that, within Europe, we are among the first countries we are already talking about and working on this descalation. We are looking, logically, at the experiences of other countries, and other European countries are calling on us too to share our work on descalation. As a result, we are all learning on the move. Therefore, we will be more concrete, but be calm in the sense that we are moving from that abstraction to the realization of the hand of the autonomous communities and in dialogue with the councils that you yourself have designated. Finally, I want to talk about social and economic reconstruction. As the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group rightly says, after listening to some spokesman, there may be some doubt as to what approach these parliamentary groups have in the operation of this parliamentary committee. But, by responding to the citizens' spokesperson, we want it to get started as soon as possible, if it can be the next week better than the next week and much better than the next week. Therefore, all I ask of you is that you also transfer to those parliamentary groups the pertinence to set this committee in motion. As you are part of those governments with the People's Party in other autonomous communities, since Mr Casado does not respond to the offer I have made to him, as I am asking all political forces to agree on social and economic reconstruction at state level, I would like to say that we can also do this at an autonomous and municipal level. What I am offering, therefore, is precisely that those agreements on social and economic reconstruction, governing those who govern, can count on the support of the Socialist Party. And since Mr Casado does not answer me - I imagine he will be uncomfortable with this offer - I ask you, as a representative of Citizens and as a coalition government in some very important autonomies, to value this proposal that the Socialist Party makes in this case so that you, in that extended hand that you offer to the Government, also see the extended hand of the Socialist Party where you govern with the People's Party. Since they do not respond to that, at least I hope that their party will be able to respond to this offer we make from the Socialist Party. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is actually a time for unity, not a time for discord, a time for choosing between the easy and the right. I believe that citizenship will appreciate all the political forces that choose the right thing, and not the easy thing, because that, fortunately, will be the positive thing for society as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the committee on social and economic reconstruction will be launched as soon as possible. I also hope that with autonomous governments we will be able to build that governance that will allow us an optimal descalation. And I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this extraordinary situation that we are living for the first time in the history of our democracy will soon be over, and not a continuous present that, unfortunately, we have been seeing for a month now. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. We shall proceed to vote on the resolutions tabled by the parliamentary groups on the Government's request for an extension of the state of alarm. I would like to remind you that the Members present who have cast the vote telematically must not vote in person. Request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by Royal Decrees 476/2020 of 27 March and 487/2020 of 10 April. Voting on the proposals submitted by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 49 plus 297 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 5 plus 17 telematics votes, 22; against, 39 plus 271 telematics votes, 310; abstentions, 5 plus 9 telematics votes, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u84	They are therefore rejected. Vote on the proposals submitted by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 49 plus 297 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 13 plus 87 telematics votes, 100; against, 32 plus 210 telematics votes, 242; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u85	They are therefore rejected. Voting on the proposals put forward by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 50 plus 297 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 8 plus 25 telematics votes, 33; against, 38 plus 271 telematics votes, 309; abstentions, 4 plus 1 telematics vote, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u86	They are therefore rejected. Voting on the proposals put forward by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 50 plus 297 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 5 plus 17 telematics votes, 22; against, 40 plus 275 telematics votes, 315; abstentions, 5 plus 5 telematics votes, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u87	They are therefore rejected. Voting on the proposals put forward by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 49 plus 297 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 21 plus 87 telematics votes, 108; against, 27 plus 199 telematics votes, 226; abstentions, 1 plus 11 telematics votes, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u88	They are therefore rejected. Voting on the proposals put forward by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Borràs, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 50 plus 297 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 6 plus 21 telematics votes, 27; against, 42 plus 275 telematics votes, 317; abstentions, 2 plus 1 telematics vote, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u89	They are therefore rejected. Voting on the proposals submitted by the Republican Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 50 plus 297 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 10 plus 25 telematics votes, 35; against, 39 plus 272 telematics votes, 311; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u90	They are therefore rejected. Voting on the proposals submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 50 plus 296 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 8 plus 43 telematics votes, 51; against, 30 plus 176 telematics votes, 206; abstentions, 12 plus 77 telematics votes, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u91	They're rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. the authorization of the extension of the state of alarm, which will be put to the vote in its own terms, can be voted on by telematic means. The vote on this item will take place, together with the other votes, at the end of all the items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u92	We continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u93	Mr. Sánchez, do you think that by not quoting the dead disappear, like children when they cover their eyes and believe that they are gone or ostriches when they hide their heads under the wing? I ask you for the third time: Why hide the deceased in his successive interventions today? Why don't you publish the real figures? Why don't you decree the official mourning they deserve? Do you intend to acknowledge any mistakes and apologize for the government's negligence in managing this crisis?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u94	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe that there is no autonomous government, nor is there any government outside our borders that can say that it has not made any mistakes. I have said this on many occasions every time I have appeared here: Europe came late, Spain came late, but it is also true, ladies and gentlemen, that we have acted before; if one looks at when the state of alarm in Spain was decreed in relation to other countries, it is clear that we have acted before. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u96	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u97	Mr Sánchez, do you agree with your spokesman when he said on Monday that with 399 dead the Spaniards we have to be happy and happy? I think the Spaniards are not happy or happy, rather we are fed up with a government that has pride, incompetence and lies. Lies like that of lethality in the Community of Madrid, which was where there were hundreds of thousands of protesters on 8 March and some sports shows, because the Government Delegation authorized up to seventy-seven concentrations. Lies like that of health; but what a mania they have in Madrid, a welcoming region, a solidarity region. In the last ten years Madrid has increased its staff by 11,000 health professionals, by 14% the budget in public health, and has opened twelve public hospitals and one hundred public health centres, despite the vote against the Socialist Party, which said that they were not needed and less bad than we had for this pandemic. Is that how you want to agree, making us responsible for your mistakes? Of course I answer you, Mr Sánchez: we are always in favour of dialogue - I have been trying to agree with you on a number of issues for two years - but above all we are in favour of the parliamentary committee which, I remind you, I proposed to you, so that it would be in this House, in the house of all the Spaniards. Therefore, today we will support you in the state of alarm. How do you see a lack of cooperation with your Government? His partners are either going to reject him or they're going to abstain. But why did the PSOE in Bureau and Board of Spokespersons not want to set up the Commission yesterday? Did your partners phone you to tell you anything about it? When can it start? Finally, can you answer these last three questions that I have asked you before?: For whom were the commissions in the purchase of fraudulent and defective tests and masks? Who gave the order to the Civil Guard to pursue critical information with the government? And, above all, are you going to ask the European Union, as the Italian Prime Minister says, and at what cost to the Spanish? If he does not tell us the truth and continues to deceive us, he will hardly be able to ask us for our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u98	Thank you, Mr. Casado. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u99	I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Casado is looking for any excuse to try not to agree with the Spanish Government. That's the point, let's be clear. I am offering you not only an agreement for social and economic reconstruction in the Congress of Deputies but also where the People's Party governs, and you just don't say anything, you don't pick up the glove offered to you by the Socialist Party. Finally, Your Honor, focusing on your question, of course we have made mistakes, but also some good ones. Recognize them, Your Honor. For example, place in science many of the advice we need to implement policies or, for example, open spaces for inter-agency dialogue with the autonomous communities. We have held six conferences of presidents in what we are being alarmed about, and also the Bureau with the social partners, with the trade unions, with the employers, to agree on some of the important measures when the workers return to non-essential, economic activities. In short, Your Honor, I think we're doing things right. Have we made mistakes? There is no doubt about it, but we have also been successful in managing it. Mr. Married, haven't you and your party made any mistakes? You remembered that you have ruled this country for fifteen years. In the seven years your party has ruled, has the deterioration and disinvestment in public health had nothing to do with your government action? That the People's Party governs for more than two decades in the Community of Madrid and the deterioration in the National Health System in the Community of Madrid has nothing to do with the People's Party? Finally, these are questions that we can legitimately ask all of us, including the citizens, Your Honor, but in any case, as President of the Government, I say to you that it is time for solutions and not for reproach and I hold your hand in that reconstruction that our country needs and each and every one of its territories. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE DEVELOPED SANTIAGO ABASCAL CONDE, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT RESPONSE THE CALLS OF HIS SECOND Vice-President FOR A CHANGE OF DEMOCRATIC REGIME IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/000097]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u101	Question by Mr Santiago Abascal Conde, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u102	Mr Sánchez, does the President of the Government support the calls of the Vice-President of the Government for a change of regime in Spain, his constant criticism of the parliamentary monarchy? Do you, as President of the Government, support your vice president's criticism of the head of state?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u103	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that since we have the advantage that it is a public ceremony, you will have seen that all members of the government have promised loyalty to the king and to comply and enforce the Constitution. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u105	Mr. Abascal Count.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u106	I thought you might try not to answer me, but I had no idea you were going to deny the older one, also showing how Mr. Iglesias, your vice president, has betrayed the oath of loyalty to the king. That is why I ask you: Does the President of the Government back up the permanent criticisms, also taking advantage of the state of pandemic, the parliamentary monarchy, the cacerolada organized by his vice president? Does he support his criticism of the parliamentary monarchy on 14 April? Do you support your criticism of the head of state for wearing the military uniform? Could you answer me very briefly? Do you back them or don't you back them? And he could also explain to us why Spanish citizens critical of the government are being watched through the state security forces because they create a climate of disaffection for government institutions. What are you going to do with your vice president, who creates a climate of disaffection to state institutions, to the head of state itself? It seems to some that he sends the Civil Guard to keep an eye on them, to the citizens; to his vice president what he does is to hand over the National Intelligence Centre to him. Can you tell me whether or not you support the criticisms your vice president has made to your majesty the king? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u107	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u108	The truth is, it puzzles me, Mr. Abascal. You stand as the greatest defender of freedom of expression, but at the same time it is the Torquemada that points to those people who do not feel like you and who, in your opinion, put the democratic regime at risk. Mr Abascal, the change of regime really took place almost forty-five years ago, when we moved from dictatorship to democracy, and the parties that we are represented here, the political traditions that we are represented in this government, we were with democracy and those who were with dictatorship are those to whom you pay tribute in many of your public acts, Mr Abascal. [[Applauds]] For my part, Mr Abascal, I do have the honour of being the secretary general of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, an organization with more than 140 years of history, which has always known where it is. We were with the Spanish Constitution in its architecture and design, we were in the Pacts of La Moncloa and we were in all agreements to combat terrorist violence. We've always been with democracy. Look, listening to him, I have come to mind the words of a person with whom I had the honour of sharing the political path in the Madrid Consistory, in the City Hall of Madrid, Pedro Zerolo, a dead social activist, homosexual. I'm sure you would qualify him as a sick man, as some of your leaders do. Homosexuality you call it a disease. But he was saying one very important thing, the difference between you and us, you know what it is? That you defend a model of society in which we do not fit half of the Spaniards and we defend a model of society in which we all fit, including you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT PLANS DO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO RESPONSE THE ACUSES THAT ARE PRODUCING DURING THIS CRISIS? [[File number 180/000086]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u109	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u110	Thank you very much, President. Mr President, what plans does the Government have to try to respond to the abuses that are taking place during this crisis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u111	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u112	Your Honor, I certainly believe that compliance with the rule of this state of alarm is almost absolute and that abuses, if they occur, are absolutely minority. I'm going to give you a fact that seems pretty illustrative to me. The average of sanctions proposals at the general level and even by autonomous communities slightly exceeds 1% and, if we talk about arrests, is much lower, it is about 0.01 %, so I do not think we can do that is to raise to category what can be an anecdote. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u113	Mr. Ruffian Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u114	Thank you very much. Mr President, the truth is that I did not refer to the application of the law gags that you are de facto doing to punish irresponsible people who skip the confinement; something that seems clearly wrong to us, but it seems even worse to us to use it. Obviously, I'm also not referring to the flagrant police abuses that are being seen in the networks, which, on the other hand, are being filmed by those who record them. I will certainly be able to comment with Mr Marlaska tomorrow on the Committee on the Interior. I meant a much more direct and perhaps even worse abuse. These are receipts. [[Show some documents]] These are invoices for the pharmacy of masks, gloves, disinfectant gels of people who have gone to buy PPE and found that in Madrid a mask is worth 13 euros in a pharmacy. In Cordoba, 9 euros; here they were luckier. In Irun, 28 euros; gloves, 12 euros. In Gijón, a gel 12 euros; a mask, 12 euros, and gloves, 10 euros. I know that you have announced and have even applied a wholesale VAT reduction. We ask you to do so at retail as well and not to reduce VAT but to abolish it, to intervene in that market. Mr President, EUR 55 billion has been spent on the military budget in this state in 40 years. I say this because some of you really like to talk about wars and with all that money I don't know how many wars have been won, but I know how many have been lost. Don't spare this, because they like to talk about wars so much. Do not make this pandemic, this disease, also a pandemic and a disease of gender, race and class. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u115	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, those examples that you have set are absolutely unacceptable and outrage not only your political strength but also the whole of the House. The fact that objects of first necessity in a pandemic like the one we are suffering are the product of speculation does not cease to reflect the need for a series of means that should lead us to reflection. One of the lessons we have to learn for the future of this pandemic is the ability to self-supply and to have their own industry so that they are not subject to speculation in the future. That is what the Government of Spain is doing. Yesterday the minister announced the control of the prices of the masks and in this sense it is in which the Government of Spain will operate, trying to guarantee the supply and a price as affordable as possible for the whole of the citizenry and, above all, for the most vulnerable groups. There is no doubt that this is the commitment of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ALICIA GARCIA RODRIGUES, IN SUPPORT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE THEODOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, TO FORM THE SECOND SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHAT MEASURES DID THE SECOND Vice-President TAKE TO PROTECT TO THE MOST MOST LIVED IN COLONAVIRUS RESIDENCES? [[File number 180/000089]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u117	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mrs Garcia Rodríguez of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u118	The president has put him in charge of the social services of Spain. What measures have you taken, Mr. Iglesias, to protect the elderly living in residences from the coronavirus?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u119	Mr. Second Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, we have declared social services essential, which means that people who care for our elderly people have the same consideration as health care workers. We have relaxed the recruitment criteria to facilitate the recruitment of staff from residences in the same terms as they have been done in health care. We have transferred 300 million euros to the autonomous communities to deal with these recruitments. Under the authority of the Ministry of Health, we have drafted the order for the autonomous communities to consider the residents and the centres that care for the elderly as priorities in the distribution of personal protective equipment. We have drafted under the authority of the Ministry of Health the order that has facilitated the military emergency unit to disinfect more than 4,000 residences. Again from here let me congratulate the social service professionals and also our Armed Forces for the work they are doing. In a word, Your Honor, we have supported the autonomous communities that have to manage senior residences. And allow me a reflection that I wish I could make yours. This crisis of the COVID-19 has put on the table what cuts mean, which means privatization and what the precarious conditions in which social service professionals work in the centres of older people mean. I hope that your political formation and this Government will agree that privatizations, cuts and precariousness will never again put the lives of our elders at risk. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u121	Mrs. García Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u122	On March 3, the first death by coronavirus is certified in a residence. Its first measure to protect older persons living in residences was a protocol of 5 March. This protocol literally says that seniors' residences follow strictly the same protocols as for a flu; a simple flu, ladies and gentlemen, have heard well. Mr. Churches, why have you kept an out-of-date protocol in place for sixteen days? On 19 March - yes, indeed - the quarantine is skipped, announces that it is put in charge of the residences of elderly people, announces that it will send sanitary material, announces 300 million to medicalize the residences. How many have you medicalized, Mr. Iglesias? They publish two orders, a guide, order difficult measures to comply with and forget that residences are not hospitals but homes. Have you met with the sector to hear your demands, Mr. Churches? The order you have passed and referred to says that health personnel who have had close contact with positive cases and have no symptoms continue to work. Is that how you protect professionals? Is that how you protect our residences? Do you know that 49% of residences by size may have difficulty isolating? Do you know that in order to isolate the positives they do test and to be able to be reliable? Five weeks later, there are still no tests, protective equipment and sanitary equipment available. Mr. Churches, it's hard to do everything right, but it's harder to do everything wrong. Can you tell me how many older people have died in coronavirus residences five weeks later? It is estimated that there are 15,000 people. They've died alone, more than 15,000 broken families we haven't been able to fire, give them one last breath, one thanks, one last goodbye. The virus does not understand competences, cuts, privatizations, or territories, the virus understands inaction and shortage of sanitary material. Mr Iglesias, you have been much more busy being important than being useful to Spain; you have been more busy having a place in the CNI than protecting the 370,000 older people living in residences and the 180,000 professionals who are without means and in the front line. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u123	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I respect that you read your question and that you also read the reply, but I think you should at least listen to me. You say residences are not hospitals. Why do you think that all the Autonomous Communities have placed residences under the control of the Health Councils? Maybe it was because we ordered them under the authority of the Ministry of Health to be considered a health problem. Precisely, for the distribution of personal protective equipment for senior residences to have the same consideration as for hospitals, we made an order that in the distribution of these materials for senior residences to have that consideration. And, Your Honor, we don't announce 300 million. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u125	Thank you, Mr. Second Vice President. - OF THE DEPUTY INES MARIA CAÑIZARES PACHECO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: DOES THE GOVERNMENT WANT TO IMPOSE THE PRIVATE POLICIES OF DEPENDENCE THROUGH THE MINIMUM VITAL INCOME? [[File number 180/000098]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u126	Question by Mrs Inés María Cañizares Pacheco, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u127	Mr Vice-President, do you intend to impose on the government the shady policy of dependence through minimum living income?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u128	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, one more week your group is using the government's control time to talk about Venezuela. It seems to me that it is a lack of respect for our homeland and for the Spanish citizens who here in Spain are suffering the health, social and economic consequences of the coronavirus. Look, minimum vital income will fill the refrigerator for many compatriots who are living in a very difficult situation, very different from what we are living in this Congress of Deputies, and which will also serve to stimulate economic recovery, because that money will go directly to consumption and to maintain our country's demand. With all due respect, Your Honor, not defending a proposal as a minimum living income is only the case with anti-patriots and against the interests of Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u130	Mrs. Cañizares Pacheco.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u131	Look, Mr. Iglesias, you have already left behind more than 20 000 innocent souls who have died in this terrible pandemic by making invisible the image of the pain that is tearing Spain apart, millions of honest workers who have not paid their March salary because they are their unsolved ERT and autonomous who have forced their businesses to close by living dramas without paying the promised subsidy. And you come, Mr. Iglesias, to promise your own gifts of totalitarian regimes without having yet paid your account to the Spaniards. Like Chávez and Maduro, dictators whom he has advised, he takes advantage of this tragedy to present himself as a revolutionary messianic savior of a homeland to which he has no courage to call by his name. It brings us economic communism of manual, yes, of the most caspian and with a certain Bolivarian stench. You have begun a dark path towards chavismo on the path of servitude to transform democracy into a totalitarian regime, distributing poisoned aid that leads to poverty and promising paradises like Cuba and Venezuela. His decadent speech, disguised as social justice, confuses the citizens, calling rights to the desires and abuses to the rights of truth, pretending to eliminate the individual initiative and abolish private property, the result of the efforts of the Spaniards, and all because of their delusions of power inspired in that wealth is not of the one who produces it but of the one who needs it. He wants to turn the state into the sole owner with you in charge. Look, universal law is work, that's the real social shield against its progressive language, which dignifies the person and eradicates social exclusion, a job whose destruction is supported by letting thousands of traders, SMEs and self-employed people die, drowning, and promises to spread misery by turning citizens into hostages of hunger. Spain already pays almost EUR 15 million in social benefits per month. And yes, it is time to offer, of course, state transitional aid linked to today's need, not permanent measures that put pensions at risk; equal measures for all Spanish citizens, without distinguishing territories and to those that even have access to people with income from the informal economy, who encourage employment and without falling into dependency or the indefinite subsidy of the public power. You impose sustained economy and poverty and we propose sustainable economy and prosperity. You do not want unity, but confrontation; you do not want collaboration, but elimination of the dissident. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Cañizares Pacheco. Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u133	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how you have publicly referred to minimum living income? Like a straw. Paguita is what his president, Mr Abascal, received from Mrs Esperanza Aguirre, and it was not for Mr Abascal to arrive at the end of the month or be able to fill the fridge; it was a means of making chiringuitos with which to attack Spanish democracy. [[Applauds]] I understand, Your Honor, that you are an economist. Peter said that there are two types of economists: those who want the poor to stop being rich and those who want the rich to remain rich. Your Honor, you, with your compound names and aristocratic origins, are not a Spanish party; you are a party that defends the interests of those who have no more homeland than their money. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND SECOND AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: DOES YOU THINK THAT A POLICIES BASED ON IMPRECIOUS, CONTRADITIONAL AND UNconsultED ANNOUNCEMENTS ON SUPPOSED MEASURES IS PROVIDED FOR AN ORDERED, PLANNED AND SHARED BY THE CRISIS? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000100]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u134	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u135	Mr Vice-President, do you believe that a policy based on inaccurate, contradictory and unconsulted announcements about supposed measures is the same as an orderly, planned and shared management of the crisis?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u136	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Esteban, I will not be the one to say that this government is doing everything right. We do some things wrong; we have done some things wrong and we will do some things wrong in the future, and we must accept criticism with humility. I think you imagine that it is not easy in circumstances like this, in which a government cannot have the autopilot, it has to make many decisions and have many discussions. I heard you in an interview the other day - I follow you a lot, I think you're a smart person and, besides, a good person, who at times like these that puts a lot in value - and, in that interview, you said you have to separate the wheat from the straw, which was one way of saying that you have to distinguish the accessory from the important. He will agree with me that the important thing for Spanish society and Basque society is to agree on major reconstruction agreements, to protect the productive fabric and also social justice. In those agreements you cannot miss the party you represent. I do not fall any ring in recognizing that the party you represent has always been able to distinguish the important from the accessory. We're counting on you, Mr. Esteban. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u138	Mr. Esteban Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u139	Yes, of course, Mr Vice-President, but I, like you, who is very clever, you know that I was referring to several ads you made about minimum income, with announcements of immediate measures, with press conference announcements - which the other person who had to give them did not know - and it was not once, but several times: certain measures will immediately be put in place. And, man!, look, how I attach importance to this issue - as you are given - I think this cannot become a race to see who gets his head out; it does not contribute to a good image of the government. But the most important thing is that it can jeopardize possible agreements, because running and doing so more quickly does not ensure that aid is actually delivered to those who need it and that a sufficient parliamentary majority can be achieved. You know that in Euskadi there is an income guarantee income; you have mentioned it and, moreover, you have praised it in this House on quite a few occasions. It depends on how you prepare your ideas with this minimum income, there may be legal problems, there may be economic problems, there may even be questions of transfer of competence. It's not like I've been able to co-honest that before you define your agreements. Therefore, with 'these announcements we will immediately launch them' they do not realize that there can be very important legal problems, very important practical problems, even by majorities of the House. I am not in favour of the Secretary of State two days ago having called the Euskadi Labour Councillor, but after asking this question. I, what I would say - and that is the intention of my question - is that this is not the way; we are not against something that can benefit many people, but this is not the way. If you want to succeed, more dialogue with potential partners and less haste.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u140	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Esteban, I have heard your speech before. Now you repeat the same thing: you don't have to be in such a hurry. Let us be sensitive, Mr Esteban, you and I have no problem reaching the end of the month, none; our group even proposed in this House that all Members should donate 50% of our salary, as well as the members of the General Council of the Judiciary and all the positions of the Government. There are people - some also in Euskadi - who have real anguish because they do not arrive at the end of the month, because as they are confined in their homes they also do not have the opportunity through informal means to put 20, 40, 60 euros in their house, and these people are in a hurry. It is true that sometimes the rush is enemy of effectiveness, but our responsibility - yours and ours - is that when there are people who feel real distress to reach the end of the month at best you and I have to take hours of sleep away so that that minimum living income, which logically has to be negotiated with the autonomous communities, comes into the pocket of citizens who cannot wait, and of course we will work with you, Mr Esteban. [[Applauds]] - OF THE FIFTH ROMERO MARKS, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE THIRD MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: HOW MANY USERS ARE ESTIMATES THAT WILL BE OBLIGATED TO CLOSE THE NEGOTIATION TO THE FALSE OF THE SUPPORT OF THE GOVERNMENT TO SURVEY THE CRISIS CAUSED BY THE COVID-19 PANDEMIA? [[File number 180/00101]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u142	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Marcos de Quinto Romero, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u143	Dear Vice President, although it makes it more and more difficult for us, she knows that Citizens are still reaching out to them for a sensible and moderate plan that will allow us to get out of this crisis at the lowest cost, but there are some things that worry us, such as finding that you are more eager to prepare lifeboats than to avoid shipwreck. Thus, while Mr.Simancas takes out on Twitter announcing to the self-employed an incentive for cessation of activity, to those who have been forced to close without forgiving them taxes or quotas, we in Madrid and Andalusia instead take care of these quotas to prevent them from pulling the towel and closing. It seems as if you find yourself more comfortable, more in your sauce, dropping business and planning the distribution of subsidies than working to prevent SMEs and self-employed from closing down. Therefore, I ask you: How many of them expect to be forced to close in the face of the lack of support from the Government?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u144	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u145	Thank you very much, President. The truth is that I am surprised by your analysis of the measures that the Government has taken, because from the very beginning we have focused on supporting the SME and the self-employed, who are a very important part of our country's business fabric, with measures to provide liquidity, to reduce their costs, to give them flexibility to adjust. If there is a group that has been specially protected by the Government has been that of the self-governing, we will continue to do so and I look forward to their support for it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u146	Mr. De Quinto Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u147	Madam Vice-President, the duration and severity of this crisis will depend as much on the correctness of the measures we agree on as on the stupidities we avoid, as on those who try to take advantage of the Coronavirus passing through Valladolid to open up debate on the Head of State, on self-determination or on the nationalization of companies. We believe that the best social policy, the only sustainable one, is to ensure that people do not lose their jobs, and that is not achieved by decree, because if a company loses billing and cannot cover costs there is no decree that is worth surviving. The priority must therefore be to help businesses and self-employed people to overcome this scourge, because the fewer they ship in this crisis the less we will regret and the less we will need social spending. You know as well as I do that this crisis does not run against but against companies, so we are very concerned about the attitude of some members of your Government with this exacerbated public praise which only shows resentment and contempt for the private. It would be no wonder that they also recognized the work of self-employed people and companies that have been left behind in this crisis by keeping our towns and villages stocked with food and medicine and even managing, more correctly than you, the acquisition and donation of certain health supplies. Then I go from here my recognition and applaud them all.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u148	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u149	Yes, Your Honor, I absolutely share the recognition that you have expressed for the work not only of the companies, also of the workers, of the whole of Spanish citizenship, which, I believe, are showing great maturity, solidarity and responsibility in this extraordinary situation. As far as the self-employed are concerned, we have taken measures to delay the payment of taxes, moratoriums on social security contributions, the possibility of going to temporary employment regulations, privileged access to public guarantees through the ICO lines, which at 99% are going precisely to SMEs and self-employed. Moreover, 900,000 self-employed women had already received the extraordinary benefit last Friday in cases where they had to close or significantly fall their income. I believe that, as I said to you, Your Honor, the whole of Spanish citizenship is making a great effort to support the productive fabric of our country, also with aid in terms of expenditure, with aid in terms of reducing its expenditure, its tax costs, and therefore with a great tax effort by all Spanish taxpayers. I believe that it is important to highlight these measures. I understand that the different interest groups always want more and ask more, but I think it is the work of all of us, Your Honor, also to value the effort being made. We do it every day, recognizing the role that businesses and the self-employed play in overcoming this crisis together, and I hope that you will do so too. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO CONSTITUTION OF MR. CAYETANA ALVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP IN THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH: HOW DOES THE RESULTS OF HIS MANAGEMENT VALUE AS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIGHT AGAINST COVID-19? [[File number 180/000090]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u150	Questions to the Minister for Health. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u151	Thank you, President. Minister, the COVID-19 is characterized by its extreme cruelty: 21,717 Spaniards have died alone and their families have not been able to mourn them. Our elders, our grandparents and parents, are their target. They also raised this country, and their Government is not up to them. Our health workers exercise their hypocritical commitment and become infected by a lack of means of protection, giving their lives for it. This is the high price that will change us as a society. How do you assess the results of your management as responsible for the fight against COVID-19?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u152	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, the Government and this minister have already been focusing their entire efforts on combating COVID-19 for many months, aware that we are facing the largest pandemic at least in a hundred years; aware also that, despite the many efforts of the entire scientific community, we are facing a virus that still has many unknown aspects; noting also that the measures taken by the Government to declare the state of alarm, with increases in contagion on those dates of more than 20% each day, have resulted - today we have increases in contagion of 2% - and have benefited all Spaniards and all autonomous communities; noting also that we still have much work to do. That is why today the President of the Government has requested a 15-day extension of the state of alarm, because we have to remain confined. I am grateful, as it cannot be otherwise, for the exemplary compliance of the Spanish citizens with these drastic and harsh measures that the Spanish Government has taken, and also, as it cannot be otherwise, for the exemplary work of all the healthcare professionals. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u154	Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u155	Minister, you always lack the self-criticism, and the exemplary behavior of the Spaniards, as you have rightly said - starting with the children, whom you fooled on Saturday - it deserves. Management has to be valued humbly, which you have not done, and its results on the basis of truth, effectiveness and certainty, and suspend in all respects, except for the CIS. The truth is absent in its management; the figures do not match, and you know it. The Spaniards distrust their data for their insistent change of opinion when developing the criteria and also because, as you know, without a test it is difficult to and will be able to reflect the truth of the pandemic. Efficacy, with its harmful management, becomes negligence. President Sanchez announced massive tests and six hundred million masks, and forty days after you assume sole command there is no test or masks. Moreover, the problem is not the market, it is the intermediaries, Mr Illa. By the way, who are they? Do you have any relationship with any of them? Your shopping management blushes and shames the Spaniards when they cheat you like a Chinese or you cheat us all like a Chinese. And, with regard to masks, his ministry has distributed 350 000 that do not comply with the regulations, used by our health care providers, thus putting their lives at risk. Today, there are infected, isolated, and test-pending toilets. Since it was reported, it has taken days for it to be notified to the receiving entities. Minister, is no one going to take responsibility for the risk you put the health care workers at risk? And finally, certainty is not possible with its improvisation. France, Italy and Germany already have a clear timetable, not us, and the worst: neither is it nor is it expected, and we are on our way to being the last ones also to regain freedom again. Maybe this last one doesn't interest you very much either. Mr. Illa, the word that defines your management is only one: failure.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u156	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u157	Thank you very much, Madam President. The attitude of the Government is self-requirement and humility. The mirror of the government are Spanish citizens with their exemplary attitude and health professionals. The Government has made every effort since the first day to fulfil the task of the Autonomous Communities to provide health supplies. Today, I think it is good news, Your Honor, we have a regular and permanent supply of protective equipment, assisted mechanical ventilation equipment and diagnostic testing equipment. The Government has established a triple control system for health devices. Originally, with the agency AENOR, validating all technical specifications to comply with the necessary regulations for the European Community. In destination, when they arrive in Spanish territory, checking with the Institute of Safety at Work that they meet the specifications according to which we have bought them. When we have detected an error, when a suspicion has been communicated to us, we have acted diligently. Your Honor, we're going to beat this together by cooperating, cooperating, with the hand out. The President of the Government has explained that we have clear criteria for this phase of transition to a new normality. It is more important to have clear criteria than not to have clear timetables, and above all it is very important to tell the truth to the Spaniards. There are still many uncertainties, we know them, we know them and together we will win the virus. Once again, from the government we extend our hand to you and your political formation to continue working together with the autonomous communities and all... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u158	Thank you, Minister. - OF MR GUILLERMO MARISCAL ANAYA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE FOURTH MINISTRY FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: WHAT ARE THE GOVERNMENT'S PLANS TO TAKE DOES OUR COUNTRY'S DISCONFIGNATION KEEP UP? [[File number 180/000102]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u159	Question by Mr Guillermo Mariscal Anaya, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u160	Minister, we understood you were the fourth vice president, Mrs Ribera, the one responsible for decontainment, right? And he has not come, you answer; it will be a lapsus. Mr Illa, it has been forty days since the Spaniards locked up in their homes, without knowing dates, zones or new sectors that can be incorporated and deconstricted. It depends on the future of our country, but also on the certainties that you can offer and the confusion that you often also offer to Spanish society. For example, last Saturday, when the President of the Government informed us that parents could go out with their children to walk according to the requirements that scientists would already establish; on Tuesday morning, Minister Montero told us that they could do so, but only to go to the supermarket, banks and pharmacies, and in the afternoon you rectified and said that you did not have to have a fixed destination to be able to go out with our children according to what scientists also said. Mr. Illa, who are the experts? Are Saturday's experts different from Tuesday morning's? Are Tuesday mornings different from Tuesday afternoons? Do the criteria change according to the experts? Have they changed the criteria of following the experts? Are political wars between you the new criteria? I propose something new to you in the management of this crisis: tell the truth. The truth will help us to regain confidence and we can raise our country on the truth. And to begin to be honest, Minister, answer at least the questions I am now going to ask you: What timetables are being handled for decontainment? What are the indicators that will allow them to start? Which communities, provinces, islands or municipalities will be the first to do so? I think of the Canary Islands, where, for example, La Gomera and El Hierro have been without any cases for two weeks and in La Graciosa this difficulty has never existed. What do the municipalities of our country that are in this circumstance have to expect to start the activity? If the pandemic is global, as you say, and affects everyone equally, why are we seeing that in other countries the activity begins and not here, here we suffer the hardest confinement, seems to be, of the whole world? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u161	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, we are not yet in this phase of transition to the new normality that the President of the Government has spoken of several times, we are still in a phase of confinement. We can afford some flexibility, but we are still in a phase of confinement. This is required by the reality of the epidemic in Spain. And if, until now, the responsibility of all political forces was necessary to combat the virus, it will be even more so in the transition phase to the new normality to avoid those careers allocated to descaling. The government has been working on these scenarios for weeks. The fourth Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge is coordinating several teams of experts, several teams of experts from a multitude of disciplines, developing a set of criteria to share them and discuss them with the autonomous communities, with which we have already met at the technical and political levels, and we will do so also regularly and based on a criterion of prudence and caution, of course. We are fighting, as I said before, a virus with many unknown aspects. We will do so on the basis of the available scientific evidence, which is not absolute because there are still many things that are unknown about this virus - as I am sure you will know following the bibliography, if you follow it, which is appearing on this virus - respecting the rights and freedoms of citizens as far as possible and also trying to anticipate scenarios. We look forward to the collaboration and responsibility of all political forces, because I assure you that this transition phase will be complicated. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u163	Mr. Marshal Anaya.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u164	After forty days they have no plan of decontainment, after forty days. Tell the truth. When and how? They know perfectly well that without masks and diagnostic tests this is impossible. Come in. When and how? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u165	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u166	As soon as possible and in the safest way for the whole citizenry. And if you ask me to tell the truth, I will not answer questions that today have no certain answer, Your Honor, and we all better adapt to these criteria. As the epidemic evolves, as the scientific evidence provides us and discusses it, as the President of the Government has said, with the autonomous communities, so will the Government of Spain and so it would be desirable for us all to act. [[Applauds]] - OF MR CARLOS HUGO FERNANDEZ-ROCA SUAREZ, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMING THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: IS THE VICE-President OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT COMPLETING THE SECURITY REQUIREMENTS TO ACCESS RESERVED AND CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION FROM THE CNI? [[File number 180/000099]] THE PRESIDENT: Question to the Minister of Defence. Question by Mr Carlos Hugo Fernández-Roca Suárez, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u167	Minister, does Vice-President Iglesias meet the security requirements for access to confidential and confidential CNI information?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u168	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, as you well know or should know, the Act of 6 May 2002, which regulates the National Intelligence Centre, the CNI, in its article 5, considers and declares that everything relating to the National Intelligence Centre has the character of classified matter with the degree of secrecy. For this reason, Article 11 states that everything that refers to the parliamentary control of the CNI is the exclusive competence, in the parliamentary sphere, of the Commission which regulates the use of reserved expenditure. You are therefore asking me a question about the National Intelligence Centre and its activities which I could never answer in this House, because the law obliges me - if you ask me the question - to give that answer within the scope of the parliamentary commission that the law itself establishes. Therefore, to the extent that I cannot answer you in this area, you are going to let me take advantage of your question to praise the work of the 3000 men and women of the National Intelligence Centre in ensuring our rights, our freedoms and our security. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u170	Mr Fernández-Roca Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, that the government has shielded Vice-President Iglesias at the most tragic moment of our democracy is simply miserable, proper to the worst possible government. The National Security Office indicates that access to classified information in Spain requires two requirements: the need to know and have the personal security clearance in force. [[shows a document]] Therefore, Minister, do you not find it paradoxical that those who are going to have access to the highest State secrets are not subject to the analysis carried out by the National Intelligence Centre to verify the degree of loyalty, honesty and reliability of the candidate? It is that Mr. Iglesias represents quite the opposite: neither is he loyal, while he has taken advantage of this pandemic to attack the Crown when he promised loyalty to his majesty the king; nor is he honest, his ties with Iran, Venezuela, Bolivia and Ecuador are well known, exalting characters like Maduro, accused of drug terrorism by the United States of America, who has led his people to poverty with their ideological necrophilia, communism; nor is it reliable, he has publicly stated that he would try to pull Spain out of NATO and that being a Democrat is expropriating. And do you, Minister, ensure that you meet the safety requirements? You know I don't. Mr. Iglesias would not meet the requirements of the DPS's advanced security questionnaire; if not, ask the General of the Armed Forces, with more than forty years of service to Spain, with an impeccable service sheet and which has to keep in force that authorization in order not to lose its destiny. Sincerely, Minister, was there no worst possible candidate in the entire government? This infamous decision, which puts in check the international classified information protection agreements signed by Spain, will compromise our national security and the defence of our country. How are our intelligence services and the State Security Forces and Corpses going to protect us from the jihadist terrorist threat without having this information? In view of this misconception, our parliamentary group has registered a proposal for a law requiring all members of the Government who are members of this delegated Commission to submit to the analysis carried out by the National Intelligence Centre in order to verify this degree of loyalty, honesty and reliability. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u172	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u173	Mr President, what is not acceptable, let alone in one Member, is that it does not comply precisely with the rules governing parliamentary activity. [[Applauds]] You have come here exclusively to disrespect the Vice-President, and you have done so - I am not going to go in and judge what you have done - but what you cannot accept is that you use precisely the parliamentary sphere, which does not comply with the rules of the parliamentary sphere, to release the sophm that you have let go. [[Mr Fernández-Roca Suárez re-shows the same document]] So I insist, you learn a little bit, if you don't know: everything that refers to the National Intelligence Centre has in the parliamentary sphere - in which we are and in which you are as representative of popular sovereignty - a specific channel. You go to that channel and we'll meet in that channel, but out of that channel, out of the law, you won't find me. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MACARENA MONTESINOS DE MIGUEL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO IMPLEMENT SOME MEASURES TO GUARANTEE THAT YOU REPORT WITH NEUtralITY, PLURALISM, OBJECTIVITY AND INDEPENDENCE DURING THE HEALTH CRISIS CAUSED BY COVID-19? [[File number 180/000091]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u174	Questions to the Minister of Finance. Question by Mrs Macarena Montesinos de Miguel, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u175	Minister, do you think the government is promoting any measures to ensure that Spanish Broadcasting reports neutrally?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u176	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u177	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Montesinos, public television enjoys autonomy. Neutrality, pluralism, objectivity, the independence of public television are accredited by citizens through various surveys. I'm just going to give you a data: in July 2016, surveys said that only 19% of respondents chose Spanish Television for information; today it's already choosing 25%. I think that says a lot. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u178	Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u179	Minister, I really don't know where you get the data from, because if there's any data that we all know, they're the ones that are published every day from the share, and Spanish Television, their info, they're usually the third parties and they've even become the sixth ones in the news ranch of all the public channels. What is clear, therefore, is that the Spaniards have fled from an absolutely manipulative and absolutely sectarian television, and in addition to a television that is currently dedicated to transferring all the lies and falsehoods that have been happening since the government, because you have drawn a vision of the pandemic that is absolutely different from what the Spaniards are experiencing. Minister, no test, no masks, and certainly no transparency in management, and they immediately shake any kind of responsibility for that and use Spanish Television and on some other occasions CIS. Why? For that strategy of misinformation in which you live and feel so comfortable in the day to day. Watch out, Television is the first to abide by the slogan that moved one of the senior officials of the Ministry of Defence to minimize all risks that the Government had to take. Such criticisms should be minimized and Spanish Television from the minute one has not only minimized them, but has also eluded them, has hidden them. Television's submission to the Government is such that it should be seen, Minister, while all the media said that they were not going to be subjected or allowed to be gabbed - as you were doing - by the government's press conferences, in which not even the video calls were allowed, Spanish Television was the only one who complied with it and joined its 'Aló Presidente' or NO-DO. Madam Minister, it is a fraudulent and manipulated version of what we are seeing every day on Spanish Television, because you shake up the responsibilities in the autonomous communities, as you did with the Community of Madrid, and that bleeding has become clear and evident every day. Your Honor, there are 21,717 those who died by coronavirus in Spain, 21,700 families who suffer and who in Spanish Television never find that reception, because they have not even been able to put the crespón and, moreover, are offending them day by day with that series called Diarios de la Quarantena...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montesinos. Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u181	Thank you very much. I, Mrs Montesinos, would ask you to stop insulting the Spanish Radio-television workers, among other things because on 9 April - I don't know if you know - they denounced a siege campaign, a condemnation campaign because from some political media, from some sectors, they were insulting themselves and constantly questioning the work of these people. I do not know, Mrs Montesinos, you must have the very fragile memory, because I believe that the majority of the Members who are here remember how Spanish Radio Television worked when it ruled Mr Rajoy. I remember perfectly well how the company committee itself denounced the manipulation to which it was subjected, the pressures to act or to work in a certain direction. You must miss Álvaro Zancajo. Do you remember who directed Spanish Television? As you know, this gentleman, who proposes that they are so absolutely plural in relation to the media, is now working on the South Canal, in Andalusia, which was when the People's Party came to govern the Autonomous Community of Andalusia. That is the plurality that you are asking for, that is the plurality that you are asking for, when whenever you have ruled there have been complaints on the part of workers of strong pressure to be informed in a direction or to hide certain information. We, Your Honor, will continue to do what we always do; we will continue to work with absolute transparency, with plurality, trying to make it easier for the media of public or private ownership to carry out their work. Therefore, Your Honor, I hope and hope that you, who permanently insult the workers of the various public bodies, will make them look at it, because in the end it impacts and discredits the functioning of the services, which are so important to this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u182	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF FERRAN BEL ACCENSI, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE DIFFICULT FINANCIAL SITUATION OF A MAJORITY OF SMEs AND AUTONOMOS THINK OF THE GOVERNMENT, AT LEAST THREE MONTHS, THE APPROACH OF IMPOSES DECLARATIONS AGREED ON IN THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS OF 14 APRIL? [[File number 180/000094]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u183	Question by Mr Ferran Bel Accensi, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u184	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, I recognize that the time is very difficult and making decisions is not easy. The health crisis generates a lot of uncertainty, but the responsibility of the public authorities is to try to reduce this uncertainty and not to exacerbate it, and this is particularly relevant for businesses, in general, and for the self-employed and SMEs, in particular. The paid permit published in the BOE twenty-five minutes before it enters into force or the postponement of filing of tax returns for some self-employed persons and SMEs published on the same day as the deadline is not an example. If we want to combat the economic and social crisis resulting from the COVID-19, we must implement more effective measures, and to combat the liquidity shortage virus of our companies, another deadly virus, the Tax Administration must contribute more intensively and more broadly and generously. Restricting it to EUR 30 000 in debt and to a maximum billing figure of EUR 6 million is absolutely insufficient, as it is insufficient to postpone the submission of declarations for certain autonomous and micro-enterprises until 20 May. Minister, is the Government planning to extend this postponement of statements at least three more months? Do you intend to modify the above limits for unsecured tax deferrals? Does the government intend to lower the interest rate applicable to 0.5%, as social security has done?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u185	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u186	Thank you very much, Madam President. I do agree, Mr Bel, that the government is indeed working at a speed of vertigo and I think it is demonstrating - frankly I think so - the ability to respond to the challenges that we could hardly imagine a month and a half ago. In this sense, if there has been a sector of our particular productive fabric, especially taken into account by this executive, it has been precisely the sector of the self-employed and the sector of the SMEs. As you commented, we have indeed increased the time in which you can submit your self-liquidation; self-liquidation that gives you the ability to request for six months the moratorium on tax payment. Therefore, Your Honor, it seems logical and normal that, at that time, the obligations to which that company has to comply can be presented and, on the other hand, benefit from this regime in which - you will recall - for the first three months the interest rate is zero. Similarly - and my fellow Economic Vice-President has just mentioned it and you have heard it - there have been many other measures that have been put in place for this group, such as the priority with which these ICO liquidity lines are addressed. Just yesterday, we took a very important and highly demanded measure by the sector, which is to be able to tax not by the objective estimation system, but by the direct system, and also that this does not mean that for three years these types of companies or companies have to continue to tax. Therefore, Your Honor, we continue to accompany this vital sector for the productive fabric of our country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u187	Mr. Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u188	Minister, I do not doubt your will, I doubt your effectiveness any more. SMEs generate 65% of total employment in Spain and in Catalonia a little more, and are and will be key to economic recovery. At the moment many of them are closed and with cash revenue of zero euros. They need liquidity to survive. This liquidity should not only come from increased bank borrowing - I take the opportunity to ask you to keep an eye on some financial institutions, some with public capital, that use ICO's collateral lines to refinance other operations or to apply high interests - but the Tax Administration must be more flexible and generous with the postponements of SME tax obligations. The first three months: 0%; the next three months: 3.75 %, Minister. Without SMEs and self-employed people, there is no possible economic recovery or job recovery. Consensus is forged by listening, sharing and agreeing and not imposing or requesting the subsequent unwavering adherence to unilateral decisions taken at the last minute and limited in their effectiveness. Let me help you...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u189	Thank you, Mr. Bel. Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u190	Mr Bel, I believe that the measures are being effective and the data show this. I'll just give you a few. More than one million self-employed persons have already applied for the extraordinary termination benefit, a benefit that did not exist before this Government was exercising its functions and before the arrival of the pandemic. More than 361,000 taxpayers, self-employed and SMEs, have requested the postponement of tax debts. This means, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 2225 million of liquidity being injected into this sector. More than 2250 self-employed companies and workers have requested deferrals of the payment of debts with Social Security. Nearly 1 100 000 companies benefit from the suspension of electricity and natural gas bills. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the data and figures... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u191	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA MARIA BELTRÁN VILLALBA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR CONSIDER THAT THE DEPARTMENT HE IS DIRECTING WITH DILIGENCE THE CRISIS OF THE CURRENT? [[File number 180/000093]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u192	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Ana María Beltrán Villalba of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u193	Thank you, President. Does the Minister of the Interior consider that his department is dealing diligently with the current crisis?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u194	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u195	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, honourable Member. Given everyone's frustration, because we would like to end the pandemic a long time ago and we would like our dead to have less citizens, I must say that I am proud to be the Minister of the Interior of the Government of Spain. It is a pride to have 170,000 men and women, because from the State Security Forces and Corpses, from Civil Protection and from Prison Institutions, together with Spanish society, they are helping to make the ratios really much more optimistic than four weeks ago. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u196	Mrs. Beltran Villalba.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u197	The important thing would be to know if they are proud of you, Mr Marlaska. By the way, Mr Marlaska, as I know you read my wasaps, you will know perfectly well that I call you the Minister of Censorship, but today I have the opportunity to say it to your face. You could have gone into history, perfectly, by doing justice with the salary equalization of the State Security Forces and Corpses; you could have gone into history by strengthening the National Police and the Civil Guard. But, far from that, you will pass into history by depriving them of protective material, by depriving them of testing and by abandoning them to their fate when they are risking their lives on the front line at the service of the Spaniards. And you, instead of avoiding that shame, prefer to become the great censor of freedom of expression. They want to drown the criticisms of their management because what they seek is social submission, and why do they seek that social submission? I'm going to tell you: to perpetuate yourself in power. That is why they desperately need the control of social networks, the control of Spanish Radio Television, the control of the Prosecutor's Office, the control of the CIS and also eliminate the transparency portal. Tell all Spaniards clearly what a bubble is for you: a bubble is any opinion contrary to the government. Look, Mr. Marlaska, your only security policy is to intimidate and establish controls over society, and that's why you hide cowardly behind the Civil Guard. Everything goes well for you, everything goes absolutely so as to prevent your shames from being seen; everything goes well to prevent it being discovered that it is the government of the world that has managed this pandemic the worst, the most ineffective, the most negligent and that of constant improvisation. In addition, they aim to prevent us from counting that Spain is the country of the world with the most dead per million inhabitants. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the Sánchez-Iglesias tandem has proved to be lethal. Taking advantage of the dramatic situation of the human crisis that Spain is experiencing to steal our freedom, it is absolutely miserable. But I want to tell you one thing, Minister Marlaska, I want to announce it here...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Beltrán Villalba. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u199	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, I have been able to verify everything you were interested in the question and my answer about what is being done by the Ministry of the Interior and everything those 170,000 men and women are doing. I see that it has been discharged and that is important, with which I am satisfied, but I will tell you so that the question will also be answered as it should be. [[laughs]] Health and safety are being ensured - these 170,000 men and women are doing so - and the mobility of these few insolidaries is being controlled, because 99% of Spaniards are being supported; essential services are being implemented; crime prevention policy is being strengthened; the most vulnerable groups are being worked on, with the Major Security Plan, to help those older people who live alone and can be subjected to abuse and fraud at the moment of the COVID; and the Guardian Plan is also helping children who are more at home, because those social networks that you are talking about are a very simple way of being able to capture and abuse them in all terms, and we are protecting them. We are also protecting women, we are carrying out a specific and specific policy on gender-based violence, monitoring and reassessment of risk, protecting them from this situation, as well as creating new functionalities within the AlertCops application. We are protecting the health care workers, through the police partners, being behind them so that they are safe and at the forefront of Spanish society in the fight against COVID. We're doing humanitarian work, our men and women police also cover humanitarian work... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u200	Thank you, Minister of the Interior. - OF THE DEVELOPED MIRIA VEHI CANTENYS, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WHAT MEASURES HAS THE GOVERNMENT DEVELOPED IN LIVING IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE CRISIS OF COVID-19? [[File number 180/000095]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u201	Question to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mrs Mireia Vehí Cantenys of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u202	Thank you, President. Minister, what measures has your Government taken in the field of housing?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u203	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u204	Thank you, President. Mrs Vehí, as you know, housing is a political priority for us, so I have raised it every time I have had the opportunity and, of course, being in an ordinary situation, even more so in this critical situation of vulnerability risk for some people as a result of the pandemic. In this sense, shortly before declaring the state of alarm, we agreed and approved for the mortgage debtors a moratorium. Once this situation arises from the state of alarm, from the records of temporary regulation of employment, from ultimately the whole situation that could temporarily - hopefully temporarily - affect many people who have rented housing, we propose a series of measures basically on several principles. On the one hand, we proposed fair and equitable measures, so that we could secure rents for tenants and tenants because 85% of tenants are natural persons, and on the other hand, we propose to continue to provide legal certainty and also to give a minimum of certainty despite the times we live in. With these objectives we approve these rental aids. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u205	Mrs Vehi Cantenys.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u206	Thank you, President. Minister, with confinement housing has become central to the well-being of the population; it was, but now it is much more evident. Article 47 of the Spanish Constitution establishes four principles in relation to housing: housing is a collective right; the obligation to use the use of land with general interest and the prohibition of speculation; the obligation of the public authorities to regulate to guarantee the right to housing and not to bring to the Constitutional Court the laws that guarantee it, as we have passed with the law that we passed in the Parliament of Catalonia or that approved the Parliament valencià, and finally, that the community participates in the surplus value. You have said that for your Government housing is a political priority, but they do not comply with your Constitution, which they so much defend when it comes to denying the right of self-determination to peoples. Why does he transfer all responsibility to the tenants? Why aren't payments suspended instead of forcing people to ask for credit? Why do they force the weak to prove that they are poor in need of access to aid? Why do they protect renters and vulture funds? Today we have heard the judgment of the High Court of Justice of Madrid, which sentenced the deputy of Podemos, Isa Serra, to nineteen months in prison for participating in an eviction. We want to show you from here all our support, to her and to all the people who fight to defend the right to housing and who are persecuted, who are many. You will see who you protect with your measures and with your policy. We will be on the side of the good ones until death and we will be many more - believe me, Minister - those who will defend rights by disobeying, as we did the Catalans on 1 October and as we will do again every time we need.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u207	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u208	Thank you, President. In the end, I don't know if you're worried about rents or taking advantage of the topic to talk about yours. In short, they have no problem, if they actually say they have acted according to the Constitution, they will also have no problem defending themselves before the Constitutional Court, I imagine they will be in tune. But, look, we can't pose a penalty for certain people, simply because there are others who enter a vulnerable situation, automatically placing others as if they were the culprits. We have tried to ensure that no one loses, no one loses, that the tenant can collect their rent - because we are also talking about people also at risk of being vulnerable, not all those who charge a rent are empowered, can be a widow or a person who supplements their rent with a rent - and that at the same time the tenant can also continue to face that rent with a moratorium of between six and ten years to return that money. Along with that, extending the contracts, avoiding the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u209	Thank you, Minister. - of Mrs Mertxe Ayspurua Arzallus, of the parliamentary group EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, which forms to the Government: is the Government committed to re-establishing AND RESPECT ALL THE COMPETITIONS, ACCOMPLISHING WITH THE SINGLE WAY SET UP, IMMEDIATELY AFTER FINALIZING THE STATE OF ALARM? [[File number 180/000096]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u210	Question to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. [[Mrs. Vehí Cantenys: I had thirty seconds left.]] There are two speaking shifts in the questions, no matter what time is left. Question to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service, by Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus, by the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u211	Minister, is the government committed to re-establishing and respecting all powers removed from the autonomous administrations as soon as the state of alarm is over? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u212	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u213	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the Government of Spain is committed to the autonomous state always, even now during the state of alarm, as it cannot be otherwise. The powers have therefore been and are being exercised by each and every Autonomous Community, in this case under the competent authority. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u214	Mrs. Aizpurua Arzallus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u215	What I asked in my question, which was very direct and very clear, was a clear and explicit commitment on the part of the Minister for Territorial Administration, because the lack of clarity on this issue, a serious and important issue, leaves room for thinking that this state of alarm is being used to move towards a re-centralisation of the State, something that our political formation will never accept. In any case, we believe - I take this opportunity to repeat - that this suspension that has been decreed was unnecessary and inoperative and has created quite a mix-up. Furthermore, we believe that it is not a question of returning immediately the powers that have been suspended, but that the autonomy statutes, both of Navarre and of the Basque Autonomous Community, must be completed in the shortest possible time. Mrs Darias, in the same way that at the time when the state of alarm was decreed the powers were immediately suspended, what we demand and hope is that the lifting of the state of alarm and the return of the powers will occur with equal speed and synchrony. Otherwise, they will have already - then yes - gone that way towards recentralisation which they now reject being given. If I may be, I would like a concrete response to the very concrete approach that I am making to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u216	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u217	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I have told you that the commitment of this government is and will always be with the autonomous state. Autonomic governments continue to exercise their powers; there is nothing more to see than their respective official newsletters for verification. Not by repeating something that is not true will become true, Mrs Aizpurua, under no circumstances, under no circumstances, and here either. You know the commitment of this government and this minister to progress in the autonomous state, but you will also understand that we are now faced with circumstances of extraordinary urgency, such as ending this pandemic. That is where the Spanish Government and all the autonomous communities and local actors are turning, going hand in hand, making dialogue and cooperation the necessary tools to end this pandemic together. Institutional cooperation has never been as high as it is in times of alarm. The President has already said that, because this question you have asked me has been answered by the President of the Government in the previous debate. He said there is no such recentralisation. There is an adoption of powers - in this case of decisions - typical of the state of alarm in which we find ourselves, but there is one thing clear: only together can we move forward. Don't have any doubts. This government is a strong defender of the autonomous state; it is more and more, every time the progressive government has been in power - in this case, the party I represent - the autonomous state has made progress, always and everywhere, and on this occasion too, with or without state of alarm, but it will understand that we have to deal with what is now the highest priority, which is to attend to the pandemic, protect people's lives and preserve their health. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u218	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u219	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group into the Congress, so that the Government can outline the measures it will take to ensure the financial sufficiency of the autonomous communities and local authorities, so that they can effectively combat the health and socio-economic consequences of the crisis. For your defence, Mr González Terol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u220	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, as you know, on 14 April we knew the estimates of the International Monetary Fund, which forecast for Spain a negative growth of 8%, an economic contraction that doubles that already experienced by our country in 2009, a contraction that will be the largest, together with Italy, of all European economies. Moreover, this Monday, as the Minister of Finance, the Bank of Spain, knows in its forecasts and in the less negative assumption, but also in the least probable, anticipated a fall of 6.6% of the national GDP, which could reach 13.6% in the most negative scenario proposed by the Bank of Spain, that is, if the confinement is maintained for twelve weeks and there is no complete reopening of the economy this year, as the Minister of Labour has already predicted. And I am very afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that the lack of forecasting by this Government in this area, which we are already accustomed to, will make us have to go to the worst possible stage. [[The lady]] If, by chance, we reached a deconstriction on 11 May and business recovered at the end of the fourth quarter, these forecasts are changed above those of the International Monetary Fund up to 8,7 or 9,5 % of our GDP fall. But if we go to the Bank of Spain's two worst scenarios, we can find ourselves falling from 12.45 to 13.6% of GDP. I miss you, Minister, and I ask you to ask your Cabinet partner, the economic situation report of the Ministry of Economy, which has not been out in the last few weeks and we do not know very well why. In any case, if any of these forecasts were confirmed, we would encounter the biggest economic recession in Spain since the Civil War and would most likely destroy the job created since 2016. Well, Minister, with this macroeconomic framework our party has loyally supported the government when it declared the state of alarm. We have accepted the confinement; almost all except the President and the Social Vice-President of the Government. We have taken the restrictions, even to have basic services or to be able to accompany our children to take a walk, so far. We have even given up something that the President of the Government has not given up; by the way, please him because the haircut that has been done is very nice and the penalty is that the rest of the Spaniards cannot do it. Also, Minister, we have supported successive extensions with institutional loyalty above what could be asked of us. But if the representatives of the Spanish people have given them this extraordinary power, it has been for you to administer it with loyalty, transparency, honesty, rigour and efficiency. If we give them that extraordinary power it is to bring solutions to the citizens, but also solutions to the public administrations that hang below you: to the autonomous communities and to the local entities, which have been the first to implement measures to contain the virus and, above all, to support the most vulnerable population. For my parliamentary group that has not happened. We believe that you have abandoned the local authorities and the autonomous communities, because when you say you are injecting billions of euros into the autonomous communities to deal with the health, social and economic crisis of COVID-19 you are missing the truth. Without going any further, this Sunday the President of the Government announced that he would inject EUR 14 billion into the autonomous communities. Madam Minister, EUR 14 billion - if I am wrong - that does not amount to any extraordinary funding for the Autonomous Communities, but comes from the mechanisms of the autonomous financing system itself which have nothing to do with COVID-19. There are 3069 million euros of the deliveries on behalf of 2020, 5.5 billion euros that come from the settlement of 2018 and another 5.5 billion euros that come from the new Autonomic Liquidity Fund, but that involve more debt and not non-financial revenues as demanded by the autonomic governments. You, your Government, have not made tens of billions of euros available to the autonomous communities. At best, his Government had made €625 million available to the Autonomous Communities. There are 300 million euros for extraordinary expenses, which are going to be transferred to the Health Councils, because the other 700 million euros to which it refers in the royal decree law are for centralized purchases. And here we ask you to be a little more efficient in this to avoid companies with offshore accounts to buy the masks or the inefficiency of having to return up to 650 000 failed tests. In addition, 350 million euros are for an extraordinary social fund that has not yet reached the autonomous communities and 25 million euros for dining grants to be distributed among autonomous communities. And I say that at best it would be EUR 625 million, because - verified today - neither Andalusia nor Murcia nor Madrid nor any of the autonomous communities consulted have received a single euro of these funds. But, in addition to being a trap fund, a bull fund of those who pursue with the Civil Guard. These funds are insufficient, Minister, because if you divide the EUR 625 million among the 47 million inhabitants, of what you have injected into the autonomous communities it is up to each Spanish for everything that lasts the period of crisis EUR 13.29. Does the Minister think that this is enough to deal with this health, economic and social crisis? I'm telling you, Minister - and I'm sure you'll agree with me - that no. Moreover, if we compare that figure of EUR 625 million with what the autonomous communities are contributing, that figure is more ridiculous and even more insufficient. I'll give you some examples. Andalusia has not only extended to three months the deadlines for submitting and paying inheritance and donation tax or tax on documented legal acts, giving 270 million euros of immediate liquidity to citizens, but has approved grants, an injection for SMEs and self-employed people worth 56 million euros, which exceeds by 5 the 51 million euros that you are going to give them in funds. Or in Murcia, where not a single euro of the EUR 10.2 million committed has been received and yet the health bill in Murcia has increased by EUR 16 million per month. Or in Galicia, where, for example, there is a local compensation fund, through which the Government of Xunta has already injected 30 million euros directly into the municipalities to deal with this health crisis, while the Ministry, with all the joint funds to which I have referred, will give them up to 36 million euros. We can reach the most affected community, that of Madrid, which estimates that the increase in health expenditure reaches 1000 million euros and in the rest of the items above 350 million euros, 1350 million euros that will put only one autonomous community, which is more than double the new funding that you are going to provide to the seventeen autonomous communities and to Ceuta and Melilla. Therefore, minister, the first question is whether your Government really intends to support the autonomous communities in their fight against the coronavirus. Because they also start from a disadvantage situation, that of not having wanted to pay the Autonomous Communities the 25 billion euros that the State owes to them from the VAT of December 2017, or that their Government through the Minister of Labour has stolen, it has appropriated of 1366 million euros of the funds of training for employment that were of the Autonomous Communities. Therefore, Minister, I ask you again: are you going to give the autonomous communities the funds they need to fight the COVID-19? Will you reply, Minister, to this letter that I have in my hand from the members of the Treasury of Madrid, Andalusia, Murcia, Galicia, Castile and León and Ceuta? Will you convene the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council? Are you going to create a non-reimbursable fund to combat the pandemic in all its aspects, without being part of the automatic funding system for that fund? These are easy-to-answer questions, Minister, yes or no? But if we get to the local authorities, we find ourselves with an even more chilling figure: zero new euros contributed to the municipalities, that is, zero euros for the 8131 municipalities; zero euros for the 41 parliaments, the seven lobbyists and the four island councils of our country. In short, zero euros for administrations that are closest to citizens; zero euros for administrations that were the first to take measures to contain this crisis; zero euros for those administrations that have had to create or expand home care or tele-assistance services; zero euros, Minister, for those administrations that are being the first battle line in this crisis. In the face of this abandonment, the example comes from those same local entities. For example, the Diputación de Almeria has advanced 95 % of the collection for the municipality of less than 20,000 inhabitants, or has bought healthcare equipment worth 2.5 million euros, or has accelerated the payment of 13.5 million euros to SMEs and self-employed people and put in circulation 30 million euros to activate provincial works. And if we talk about town halls, more of the same, minister. The City of Madrid has approved tax bonuses worth 63 million euros; in addition, it will allocate 15 million euros to guarantees for self-employed and entrepreneurs and 1.7 million euros to traders. But you could have invested far more than the 82 million euros of direct aid that the Madrid City Council has made if you had heard your call, that of the Mayor of Madrid, when you claimed not to amortize in advance the more than 400 million euros of the surplus of the year 2019. Or the Municipality of Zaragoza, which with a debt of more than 1000 million euros generated by Podemos and the Socialist Party during the four government legislatures made a call to ask for a rescue of public transport, because thanks to the measures of the Minister of Transport we have had buses circulating empty when there was a total closure of the Spanish economy and has caused great imbalances in the administrative concessions of public transport. And what do you offer, Mrs. Montero, your ministry, to the 8,000 local entities in our country? Nothing, and in the meantime they give EUR 15 million to TDT operators and EUR 100 million for an institutional advertising plan 2020. You live in propaganda, in ads, but without content. Turning to the subject before us, what has your Government done for local entities? The only measure they have taken has been to allow them to spend 20% of the surplus, an insufficient amount and trapping. It is a trap because it does not involve additional funding because it is their savings, it is a trap because the Government has not removed the obligation to comply with all the requirements of the Budget Stability Act, and it is also insufficient because with that 20% they will not be able to cope, not only with the current measures that they will have to take to deal with the health crisis, but above all with the subsequent economic crisis. The surplus of the municipalities reaches 3839 million euros and you allow them to barely spend 767. How can they not allow local entities to use all the resources to help their neighbours? Perhaps they want to take over that surplus, even the remaining treasury, which amounts to EUR 28 billion, as you slid in a meeting with the finance advisors. You did not want to pay the local entities the 700 million euros of VAT that you owe them for the year 2017. You know, don't laugh, Minister, you know it's true. Nor has it paid the EUR 25 billion of VAT owed to the Autonomous Communities and has been able to compensate all the municipalities with negative liquidations in mid-March, in the midst of a crisis, by even further detracting from the financial resources they had to use to deal with all and united, as you like to say, this pandemic. So there are many issues that I would like to raise with you. Is your Government prepared to advance deliveries on account of the share of the State's taxes of 2020, at least one part, to the municipalities, as it has proposed to the autonomous communities? Are you prepared to create direct and unconditional aid for local authorities worth EUR 5 billion, as we asked from the Group of the European People's Party at the meeting at which the President of the Government, on Monday, did not commit himself to anything with the municipalities or with the deputies of Spain? They're simple questions. A yes or a yes would be just enough. In any case, if there are complex explanations, we will know that it continues to deny local entities not only the additional funding they need, but that they can have their own resources to meet their neighbours in this emergency. Minister, I'm done. The tests and the masks have arrived late; not to be late, even later, the social aid to the municipalities, the communities and the deputies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u221	Thank you very much, Mr González Terol. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u222	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Gonzalez, I'll tell you one thing. We are living in this country a pandemic and a health situation so serious that it seems to me to be a joke that you are coming up to this rostrum to talk about the President of the Government's haircut or to talk about the isolation of the Vice-President, the President or Mr Rajoy, which you did not talk about this morning. I think it's a joke of bad taste. I do not understand where the People's Party emphasises or what it believes is the objective which, as the main political force of the opposition, has at this time for its intervention in this rostrum to have been not only a mere reminder of anecdotes such as those I have just mentioned, but also a challenge to the economic policy practised by Mr Rajoy during all the years of his mandate. Mr Gonzalez, you speak of surplus, of the savings of the municipalities, but I have never reminded you that in previous times you would speak of the fact that this surplus could not be used unjustly. Did you then think it was good or bad to use the spending rule? Do you agree with deficit control? Do you share the need for debt control or do you, now that you have gone to the opposition, challenge the Stability Act, the fiscal consolidation commitments and the rest of the issues with Europe? I'm telling you, Your Honor, because that seems like it; I don't know if you've heard yourself. Besides, I'm going to give you a second thought. I am not going to use the autonomous communities as a simple bold weapon to confront the Government of Spain. You here only talk about autonomy to ask for money or to ask for resources or to say that the policy Mr Sánchez is a misguided policy, a misguided policy. You never talk about cooperation between the Government of Spain, autonomous communities or local entities. Never. They only use it to try to draw political differentiation. You use words like stealing. Stealing resources? That's a complaint, Your Honor. Is it necessary to make use of certain resources from training for employment so that certain benefits can be paid to citizens living in the Autonomous Communities? Or where do the citizens of Spain live? In the villages, in the municipalities, in the autonomous communities. Do you think that is stealing or stealing, which is the word you have used throughout your intervention? These are issues I did not want to overlook, because they seem serious enough not to. Look, Your Honor, we, from the very beginning, are facing this social emergency situation by trying to get all administrations to row in the same direction with a triple goal. Firstly, to strengthen the health system so that it can cater, under quality conditions, to all citizens affected by COVID, to people, to family members, so that we can control a pandemic, which is the most serious one we have had in the last century. Secondly, to try to ensure that our productive fabric, in which this health pandemic is undoubtedly going to have an impact, because of the confinement, the closure of borders and the situation of international trade, also has minimum resources to enable it, once this situation is more urgent, to revitalize itself and to recover the pace of previous growth. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, let no one stand back, let there be no collectives that do not have aid, with protection from the Spanish Government, if they have lost their jobs or if the previous inequality they had before the health crisis had worsened. These are the issues that we have deployed in recent times. These are the issues that we have shared with the autonomous communities and with local entities. And I, differently from what you have expressed in this rostrum, what I have heard from the institutional leaders has been a desire for loyalty, a desire for cooperation, a desire for cooperation. I have not heard that relationship of grievances or questions that you have put on the table. You said that the forecasts for this crisis that the International Monetary Fund or the Bank of Spain itself is very serious in terms of deficit and debt. In fact, the Bank of Spain, in the last fork, has raised a figure of between 6% and 13% of the deficit increase and, on the other hand, a very large increase, around 117 % or 120 %, in debt over GDP, that is, a really sharp fall, probably as never happened. Furthermore, if you have seen the data from the International Monetary Fund, you will have appreciated that they coincide with the rest of the European countries, with similar figures from the euro area, knowing that Spain is currently going through this health pandemic in a much more acute way. I hope that the neighbouring countries will not reach the peak of contagion that has occurred in other parts of the world. That is why, Your Honor, when we and the President talked about the resources provided to the Autonomous Communities, of course we talked about the deliveries on account. You say: it is that the deliveries on account are resources that belong to the autonomous communities by the system of financing. Are you going to tell the Prime Minister of Finance who has shut down the update of the accounts from the General Budgets of the State? Of course, you won't tell your party, that you never did that, even though I asked you, as a finance advisor, on different occasions. But, more than that, do you know how much the deliveries have been updated on behalf of the Autonomous Communities? With expected growth of 1.6. And you yourself have expressed in your words that the fall in GDP is likely to be 6 % or 13 %. This means, Your Honor, that in relation to the previous year the Autonomous Communities have received 7.3% more resources. In a year when we are not going to have income and in a year when economic depression is palpable, they will have 7.3% more resources to meet their obligations to provide public services; resources, Your Honor, which, of course, the Government of Spain has to draw from its own public accounts, because you know that we have extended budgets and, in addition, you know that at the moment the collection forecast has nothing to do with the growth figure of when the path of stability was presented. On the other hand, the same is true in local entities. The transfers with which their income has been calculated are around 4.3% more than those of the previous year. I imagine, Mr González, that this will at least allow you to make a positive assessment of what the Government has done with the transfers, because if it had governed the People's Party, it would not only not have updated them, but would simply not have even transferred the deliveries to the account, as it did when the budgetary extension that led your party was raised. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, a very large percentage of its liquidity has already been recovered from this part of the deliveries, because we are advancing the money that comes with those transfers and, therefore, we have chosen not to do so as is always done, in a pro rata way throughout the year. Also, Your Honor, we are transferring an advance of up to €55 billion as a 50% advance of the 2018 settlement. In addition, Your Honor, we approved in the second quarter the distribution of the FLA, with 2365 million that are already reaching the whole of autonomous communities, and we have an extra FLA portfolio for 5.5 billion euros. That is to say, we have substantially increased the funding of the Autonomous Communities, but we are not content with that, Your Honor. All communities have been asked for a treasury plan to know what their calculation is with respect to liquidity, so that we can make a forecast both of debt authorizations and of the communities that are affiliated to the FLA, so that there is no problem with the payment of their current obligations, but neither is the payment of the commercial debt delayed. All of them are items that add up to 300 million that we have given for health transfers, another 300 million for social transfers, another 25 million for children's dining rooms and another 300 million that have also gone to the surplus of the municipalities so that they can be used. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been EUR 12 billion that the health system has been spent on material, in addition to the provision of the necessary resources for the protection that the Government of Spain is providing to all autonomous communities. I do not tell you, Your Honor, if it is much or little; probably in this emergency situation all resources seem to us to be few, but I do not think it is fair to suggest that the Government is not in a permanent exercise of dialogue with the Autonomous Communities to try to ensure that this situation can be solved throughout this period. The same applies to local entities, because you here have made an allegation about the surplus of the municipalities and I insist that the spending rule has not been an invention of this government. You, for many years in which the situation was very complicated, did not allow the municipalities to spend that surplus. We have had a meeting with the EMFF, we have reached a commitment to talk, to agree on the political priorities to which Spain as a whole has to devote priority resources, whatever the role of the administrations. We have therefore remained, Your Honor, in a continuous, fluid, constant dialogue - as we do in the administrations - which allows us to agree on what is important, and from there to work in two phases. A first phase, of attention to the emergency situation, especially in autonomous communities, which bear the burden of health expenditure, and a second phase that has to do mainly with reconstruction. Undoubtedly, the municipalities will play a key role in this reconstruction phase. The wishes that have shown us mayors of different political colors will allow us to share in that part of the reconstruction, in which we are going to work not only with political parties, autonomous communities and municipalities, but also in the social dialogue, what these resources are and what capacity we have to employ them, complementing all the administrations to attend to the one thing that matters, ladies and gentlemen, to this Government, to the autonomous presidents, to the mayors, who is the only citizen who lives in our cities, in our municipalities and who does not care what competence each administration has, because what he wants is for us to coordinate to give an effective response. We're on it, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u223	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. The next item is Mr González Terol.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u224	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, from your speech I see you repeating again the same funds and measures to which I have referred to ask you if there was anything more than regular autonomous financing and the use of surplus, that is, the savings of the municipalities. It will allow me to tell you vulgarly that this government, addicted to propaganda, in this case only sells smoke: an additional EUR 625 million is all you give to the autonomous communities and not a single new euro for local entities. They are mostly trap measures, fake measures and totally insufficient, Minister. I have had the honor of being mayor of an important city for eight years, and believe me that these resources are needed or in many municipalities there will be liquidity problems in June. Minister, we all know that Spain is not facing this pandemic or the best team - you - or in the best economic conditions. I have told you what the International Monetary Fund and the Bank of Spain tell you. 2020, ladies and gentlemen, was going to be the year in which Spain was going to have a deficit close to zero, 0.5%, Minister, and 2021 was going to be the year of budgetary stability. Do you know when? When he was ruling the People's Party. But in 2018 you arrived and what happened? That the public debt has increased to 28,853 million euros more, 600 euros more per Spanish. But, Your Honor, the state's public accounts closed 2019, according to you, with a deficit of 2.64 of GDP. Minister, do you or do you lie to Eurostat when you say that the real state deficit is 2.82% and that there is a deviation of EUR 2 billion? But, even in this, to criticise it, I will say something positive to you: at least you did not go to the European Union, to the European Commission, to tell them that the deficit is 6% and to find yourself, as we find ourselves, with a deficit of 9.2% in 2011, a deviation in that case of EUR 32 billion. And what do these data show us? They show us that Spain is going to have a very bad time, that Spain is going to have a much more intense economic crisis than the rest of the world because of the lack of competition and the irresponsibility of this government; irresponsibility, Minister. And he was talking about the Budget Stability Act, which you loved to skip as a Finance Advisor to the Andalusian Board; that's probably why the President of the Government has chosen her as minister, because in the end she has no decency in ignoring the laws and serving political objectives. Nor does it have the slightest problem - and I say this to you as a Member of this House - to be none by your fellow cabinet members and to defend measures that are annulled immediately afterwards. I'm going to tell you three cinematographic similes to talk about that none and that incoherence. The first is where the protagonist, you, defends that the children go to the supermarkets, to closed spaces, to pharmacies, but that they cannot walk with their parents on the streets and then another of the protagonists, the Minister of Health, comes and tells him just the opposite. The genre would be the drama and the title Montero against Illa. The second film that I propose is the one in which the protagonist is again you: she denies that there will be a vital minimum income, so that the next day other main actors, the social vice president of the government and the president of the government, will say just the opposite and that it will be mysteriously approved in May. Gender: suspense. Title: Montero against Iglesias. But this is the best: in this last film, the protagonist denies by letter to the Andalusian Board to join the Autonomous Financing Fund, see, by failing to meet the objective of budget stability deficit, the spending rule of the year 2018, the year in which you, the protagonist, drew up and approved the budgets of the autonomous community. The genre: comedy; the title: Montero vs Montero. With regard to incompetence, Minister, we have had so many examples this week that I am not going to add to them, I will simply ask you: What would you do with the 35 195 million euros you would have the public accounts if it were not for your intervention? You could have advanced the participation of the state's taxes to the municipalities, you could have given a fund of 300 million euros to assist in the purchase of basic food to the municipalities, or you could have created a public transport rescue fund worth 500 million euros, which was also requested by the mayors and presidents of the People's Party, or you could have returned the VAT or, if you see what is so extraordinary, you could have returned the 2500 million euros of VAT that you owe to the autonomous communities or even the 1366 million euros that you owe them in employment policies. By the way, do not talk to me, Minister, about stealing resources when you talk about financing courses for employment, because 780 million euros later, I think that from Andalusia, little can be explained about the thefts of that money. In any case, there are even measures that we have proposed, Minister, at that meeting with the FEMP, to the President of the Government and to you that have no cost, such as allowing local authorities to use all their surplus. Why don't you allow them to use all their money to fight this coronavirus together? There are many questions I would like to ask you and, unfortunately, I do not have time anymore, but I ask you, please, to value these proposals from the People's Group, the ones we made at the FEMP and also the one I make you as a Member. It is a people's government that believes in the experience with which we make these proposals, a people's government that has taken us out of these circumstances on two occasions. If you do not know or do not want or cannot solve this health crisis and, in addition, the economic crisis, step aside and the People's Party will once again fix this stalemate for the third time in the history of our democracy. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u225	Thank you very much, Mr González Terol. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Wait a minute, Minister, please. Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u226	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Gonzalez, I have never heard an intervention from you in this rostrum and believe me when I say that you surprised me. It's a joke; the intervention you've made here is a joke. With the one that's falling into the country, have you heard yourself? Are you going to read the Journal of Sessions? I would like you to request that you withdraw from the Journal of Sessions that my appointment as a Finance Advisor responds to me being appointed to skip the law knowingly to pursue party ends. [[Mr González Terol makes negative gestures]] You said that. If you don't even know what it says; if you get up here, you get warmed up and start saying barbarities after barbarities; if you don't even know what you've said. You said that, Your Honor. And if not... Yes, you have said so; you have said that I have been appointed Minister of Finance to skip the law and pursue partisan ends. [[Mr González Terol makes negative gestures]] That's what you said in this rostrum. And if you did not want to say that, I ask you to withdraw it from the Journal of Sessions, because it seems to me to be a serious enough statement. Let us see, Your Honor, fortunately this progressive government is carrying out the management of the country and the management of this pandemic. And the other day I was saying: we are wrong, but less wrong that we are, Your Honor, less wrong that this government is directing this country's plans to fight the health crisis, to help the weakest people, to protect our productive fabric, in short, so that no one stays behind. Do you even imagine the nightmare that we would have experienced if it had been the People's Party that had been ruling Spain?, a People's Party that during the entire economic crisis left thousands and millions of citizens on the road and did not care, Your Honor, whether they had the resources or not to be able to pay for electricity or had the capacity to cope with their rental costs. I am not going to repeat the measures that this Government has put in place, but they are many and very important. This is a government that has lowered the debt to this rostrum and says that this government has not lowered the debt; a government that is working and operating on Mr Montoro's budgets, because you have made permanent efforts to prevent this country from having new public accounts. Up to two elections we've had in the past year, and you say I'm responsible for the 2018 deficit because I made the budgets. Well, Montoro is responsible for all the deficits we have over the years until this House and Parliament approve a new draft budget. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, 2.8% is Eurostat's adjustment, as was the case with Mr Montoro. What are you talking about hiding? What do you talk about lying when you talk about adjustments? What does Eurostat do, do it with Mr Montoro and do it with all the administrations? How do you talk about lying? By the way, do you know what are the only administrations that have lowered the deficit? The General Administration of the State and Social Security. Do you know, Mr Gonzalez, that the excess deficit is due to autonomous communities in the vast majority and to the smaller surplus of the municipalities? We have come down, and I say this to you; 2.8% has brought down the General Administration of the State and Social Security. You don't care, Mr Gonzalez; you don't care, despite the decrees that were passed, all of which, as I say, were supported by your budget. It seems to me that all this we are talking about is far more serious than what you have done from this rostrum, and it seems to me that neither the citizens nor the politics of this country deserve that debate. I have a fluid relationship with the compañeros of autonomous communities, with the mayors and with the mayors. What's more, you say you've been mayor. I've been a health counselor for ten years. [[Mr. González Terol: Yes, yes]] I know perfectly well what a health crisis is. I am a doctor, Mr Gonzalez; I know perfectly well what a health crisis is and I know perfectly well how badly colleagues are going through it and how badly it is going on in the whole of the National Health System, the National Health System, which is one of the best systems in the world and which you, when you were ruling, wanted to privatize. Yes, Your Honor. Go to Valencia, go to the Community of Madrid, models Alzira and models of privatization; even the councillor of Hacienda of Madrid defends this privatization. I know you put your face that you don't care what I'm telling you. [[Mr González Terol makes negative gestures]] I conclude by telling you that the Spanish Government is going to continue to work with autonomous communities and municipalities, of course, we are going to continue to see the liquidity needs and provide the resources that each one can provide so that all excess spending can be financed; we are going to continue to work in Europe so that European funds can also be used for health spending; we are going to continue to talk with local entities to have the possibility that this money will also be used in the economic reconstruction phase of our country. Beyond your intervention, I can assure you, Mr González, that you will not discourage us. We are going to continue to reach out, we are going to remain loyal to the autonomous and local governments. I hope that if you do not want to help, if Members like you, with the intervention you have made here, you do not want to help this country, which is being exemplary, to get out of this pandemic situation, at least step aside and do not interfere, because the only thing you do with this is to generate disquiet and discouragement in the people who listen to you, and I hope that the citizens who have been able to follow this intervention will know that, despite them, the Government of Spain will continue to work loyally, with institutional respect, reaching out to all the political forces, autonomous communities, municipalities, employers and trade unions to talk about the urgent reconstruction of health, economic and social affairs in a country that has to show its pride of the citizens who remain confined. [[Mr. González Terol fingered the government's seats]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u227	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - THE EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE SECOND Vice-President AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND Agenda 2030 ON HOW TO ENSURE THE SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC SURVEY FOR CITIZENSHIP BETWEEN THE INTERESTS OF THE GREAT ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL POWERS. [[File number 172/000018]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u228	We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the urgent appeal of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group to the second vice-president and minister of social rights and Agenda 2030, on how it will secure the social and economic shield for citizens in the interests of the great economic and financial powers. For your defence, Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u229	Thank you, President. Now it's up to the people, down to the people; enough privileges for a few, you have to secure rights for all; it's time to rule for 99%. Do you remember, Mr. Iglesias? I did, were the words that you repeated a few years ago in rallies, squares and media, also in this very Chamber. Today you are vice-president of a government that has been entrusted with managing a health, social and economic crisis of an unimaginable magnitude, vice-president of a government that has to choose which side the balance will be decanted: towards the top, as in 2008, or towards the bottom, as you claimed only two years ago. But now you, in addition to giving rallies and interviews, can rule, make decisions for that balance to settle. Although we say some things, we also share others. You and we, Mr. Churches, share values of solidarity; we share values of social justice and equity, democratic and republican values, community values, left and progress; we share the defense of the working and working classes, the protection for the most vulnerable and the maximum of putting life at the centre. It's because we share all this so we ask you more. The first thing I want to move is an important reflection for us. These days we listen, we hear and we talk about returning to normality, that we need social and economic reconstruction, and as I said this morning at first, we don't think we need any of that. What we need is to build a different model, a new social and economic model that protects people and the planet; not reset to zero, but transform to a new point. Because it is that outdated model that has brought us here; it is that predatory model of rights, lives and resources that has left us naked in the face of this health crisis; it is the destruction and plundering of the public that has made us vulnerable, and it is the impoverishment of the living conditions of citizens and the precariousness of workers that has put us on the brink of a social and economic precipice. Therefore, no, we must not go back to the above, but build something new and better for the majority, transform towards a model that puts the public and the common in the center, that has the well-being of the citizenry as goal and a life worthy as goal. In short, as we have repeated on several occasions: a clear bet that prepares us for the future and for life. Therefore, it is up to you to choose, to choose which side you will decanter, Mr. Iglesias, the balance of your government. One cannot be asking for pacts on the right, while talking about social and economic shields, about leaving no one behind and protecting the most vulnerable. You have to choose: either the right and its policies, or a new, fairer model that benefits the most and not the least. Both, in our view, are simply incompatible. While the right, banks and employers will want to rescue large companies that, in addition to not paying taxes, evade billions annually through tax havens, we will want to rescue workers, SMEs, the self-employed, small traders. While they will want to benefit construction companies and vulture funds with a new real estate boom, we will want to ban evictions and boost social rental by securing roof for everyone. As long as they continue to bet on dismantling and privatizing everything, we will bet on strengthening the public and the common. As long as they forgive taxes on gambling houses, we will bet to close them, and as long as they fantasize about getting the free dismissal and the lowering of the interprofessional minimum wage, we will want to improve the working conditions of workers. They'll want to cut pensions, we'll make sure they're worthy. We must choose, Mr. Iglesias: either the right, to rebuild what we had, or the left, to advance in terms of social justice and dignity. He knows that we have many differences with this Government, but he also knows that we have maintained a constructive attitude from the outset. We have criticized them for what may have seemed insufficient or wrong, but we have always done so with a proposal to improve them. We have put forward health proposals to address the pandemic, social proposals to protect citizens and economic and fiscal proposals to alleviate the consequences of this crisis. Some, although partially, have been taken into account and we know that they are taking some positive steps in these areas, but they are still insufficient and I think you know it, as we do. We ask him more because we have now been shown what we were denied for so many years: that evictions could be prohibited, that redundancies could be limited or that much more could be invested in public services. But there was a lack of political will. That is what we are asking now: political will to take more, deeper and more far-reaching measures. We have proposed to suspend the payment of mortgages and rents for people in vulnerable situations, decrease in income to those affected by ERE or ERTE or dismissals, as well as suspension of essential service bills such as electricity, water and gas for these groups. We also ask for a guaranteed emergency income - we call it that, the name is the least- that is equal to the interprofessional minimum wage. We value the minimum living income they raise, but it remains insufficient in the face of this crisis. We have called for more measures for the self-employed and SMEs, for the hoteliers and traders who are at zero and who are and will be one of the sectors most hit by this crisis. We have proposed to ensure decent employment by preventing companies, with the excuse of the crisis, from firing and pre-charging workers' lives. We have proposed a tax on banking that will bring back, at least, the 60 billion that we owe to all; a tax on wealth and big fortunes so that those who made money at our expense contribute what they owe and also prevent cuts and privatizations in health, education and research, increasing funding. And we have demanded that public control of the strategic sectors be restored so that the immense wealth they generate benefits all citizens, and not, as it happens, that it be left in the hands of a few who are becoming more and more rich. These are just some of the proposals that we would like to discuss and develop. I would like to convey one last reflection to you, Mr. Iglesias. We Basques and Basques also need tools to protect people. You make decisions and approve measures from your Government that can help the most vulnerable sectors; you have tools, skills and capacities to do so. What we would like is to be able to count on the same, no more or less. Mr. Churches, you believe in plurinationality, in the capacities of peoples and nations to self-governance, and today more than ever that capacity for self-governance is necessary to protect the present and the future, because the best decisions will always be closest to citizenship, and no one better than our institutions, our social, trade union and scientific actors, business and political forces to make them in common. Basque society has the capacity and collective intelligence to deal with this crisis, we do not need guardianship. Therefore, I reiterate: do not fall into the temptation to use this crisis to refocus decisions and have the courage to expand them. Do not prevent us from making our decisions either now or in that future that we have to build. We will not abandon our values, our principles or our ideas; we will not, we will continue to be sovereignists and leftist independenceists; we will continue to work to build a just, democratic and egalitarian Basque republic. But we will also continue to be supportive. That is why, just as we owe it to the social majority of our country to put all our efforts to bring them forward, to offer them a future as best as possible, we also want to offer it to the people of this state, because - and that is a phrase that I repeat often - we are not united by one nation, but we are united by one class. That is why we want to ask you to ensure that the solidarity and respect that we are showing is reciprocal. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u230	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u231	Thank you, Madam President. I'm delighted to see you recovered. Some will be surprised, but I am delighted to see you presiding over this meeting. With you as President, I learned a lot as a Member of Parliament and I would like to thank you. Thanks to the workers who make it possible for us to develop our activity here. And thank you very much, Mrs Aizpurua, for your speech. It has not only been an intervention with a tone that, unfortunately, is not usual in this Congress of Deputies, but I think it has been a high-level intervention. Not only with the words, but with the facts, you have shown loyalty, and that has great merit when it comes to an independence formation that would legitimately aspire to a different legal relationship with the State, and this Government values it. He's raised some very important things. You have said that to rule is to choose and, indeed, to rule is to choose. I modestly believe that this Government has chosen to do things differently than it did after the 2008 crisis. We have been committed to building a social shield and we certainly have not yet done everything that needs to be done, but I believe it is fair to acknowledge that the measures that this Government has taken forward have no precedent in the recent democratic history of our country. From 2008 the layoffs and the situation of workers in Spain as a whole was dramatic. This government has banned layoffs because of the COVID-19, this government has provided ERTE to 4 million workers, this government has provided benefits to female domestic workers and temporary workers, and this government has done something that was a matter of dignity in Spain and is banning evictions that caused real shame in our country after the 2008 crisis. This Government has approved rental aid, approved moratoria for mortgages, banned the cutting of supplies and created extraordinary aid for self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises. In May, finally, there will be a vital minimum income that will help many citizens fill the refrigerator and not have to feel ashamed that their families do not have the minimum necessary for decent living conditions, but that will also help businesses and self-employed people to continue to bill, because the money of that vital minimum income will be directed towards consumption. There will be more to do, and if you demand us to do more, you will be doing things right. Allow me, however, to reflect on it. You said: you can't ask for pacts on the right, you can't ask employers for pacts. I think we should do it. You have done it in Euskadi many times. You have often reached out to the Basque Nationalist Party for what you legitimately defended as a national and popular construction. It is true that I would already like to have in Spain a right such as that represented by the Basque Nationalist Party, a Christian democracy with which we can have many differences, but with which we can achieve state consensus. But this is the right we have and it is a patriotic obligation, in times of exceptionality like those we are living, to reach out to them and explain to them that there are consensuss that have to be country consensuss. When someone goes to a health center they can take care of you in Basque, Galician, Catalan or Spanish, and when you need them to take care of you in a health center you know they won't ask you which party you voted for or the card of which party you have in your pocket. And I think it is our duty as democrats and also as Republicans that we understand that the public is the fundamental thing to determine the legitimacy of the state that we hold to the whole world. Look, I think they've been built in the last few cross-weeks. It is a cross-cutting consensus that public health needs to be more protected, which is a shame that there are health professionals working in precarious conditions; that health privatizations have contributed to a lower efficiency of our health system, of the whole health system, because they are transferred competences, and it seems to me - because I am a federalist - that those competences that are transferred can respond effectively to a pandemic, and that is a consensus that has clear to everyone; people who vote on the right also have clear to me that public health needs to be defended. It is a cross-cutting consensus that our industry cannot depend on speculative markets. People have voted on the right, on the centre or on the left, everyone understands that a serious state cannot lack the capacity to manufacture personal protective equipment and respirators and that, therefore, industries will have to be adapted so that if another pandemic arrives we do not have to feel ashamed as a country to be competing in an international cannibal logic, where speculators and vultures do business at the expense of people's health. It is a cross-cutting consensus because we have to build the fourth pillar of the welfare state, which is social services, which was discussed this morning. What has put the situation of the old age centres on the table is that the privatization and precariousness of workers in the old age residences affects the safety of our elderly and public health, and that, therefore, the fourth pillar of the welfare state must be built, and with this also agrees with the people who vote on the right. Fiscal solidarity; that our country is five points away from the European average in fiscal justice is absurd. And right-wing people also fully understand that the mechanism of solidarity in an advanced democracy can never be the individual altruistic gestures, which are very well, but in advanced societies altruism and solidarity work through a just and effective redistributive tax system so that there are roads, so that there are hospitals, so that there is public education, so that all the material elements that are the basis of the sustainability of democracy are built. It is also a cross-cutting consensus that we need to help the economic fabric. We cannot give to a right that has not understood that we must defend the economic sectors that produce here, that pay taxes here; companies, I do not find it difficult to say, as Value, those of chocolate, that they raise the salary to their workers in the middle of COVID-19. We have to put that business fabric into value, in front of the vultures who intend to pay taxes in tax havens in order to pay nothing and not be supportive here by paying the taxes they have to pay; in front of the vultures who exploit our young people and tell them that they are not workers and that they are autonomous, like the riders. We must build an alliance with business sectors that generate wealth here, that pay decent wages here and that pay taxes here, because the model that the right has defended, at least until a month ago, has not only proved morally critical, but economically inefficient. It is a cross-cutting consensus today that Europe will be supportive or not; and I am not naive, I know that negotiations in Europe are going to be enormously difficult, but things that seemed unimaginable to move weeks ago are moving. The right-wing parties in our country have been wrong in the European Parliament by voting against the Eurobonds, but listen to what I am going to say: in a few weeks or months they will rectify, because defending a Europe of solidarity, defending mechanisms that allow us to build a New Deal is a country interest, not just a proposal from the left. It is necessary to build recovery while respecting ecology and the environment; this is understood by right-wing people as well, even though their parties remain embedded in positions that no longer make sense. When De Guindos, when Mr Roldán, who governed the economic policy of Citizens, when economists who come from Orthodox schools are recognizing that minimum living income is a necessity, we have an obligation to reach out to all political forces to build a reconstruction agreement that serves us to put dignity at the forefront without leaving anyone out. Look, my political strength when it was born was very critical with the Spanish Constitution, we wanted to start from scratch. And over the years we have realized that this Constitution was the expression at the time of a correlation of forces, that when you make politics you must not disregard the correlation of forces, and that the organization of the working classes in all the peoples and nations that make up our State was fundamental for that Constitution to collect social rights and a notion of general interest that was inspired by the beginning of 1945, when European constitutionalism shielded social rights. Although you do not agree with all the elements of that Constitution, that Constitution has elements that unite us all who defend the general interest in protecting the common. And we will be excited with different symbols, we will have different mother tongues, but to defend housing, the need for a fair and redistributive tax system, to defend decent wages, to defend that the general interest is above any particular interest - and this is patriotism - we will be able to agree respecting our diversity. I hold your hand, Your Honor, and I again commend your group's attitude. I am convinced that soon you may also be a governing force and have to face the difficulties of making decisions, which is obviously much more difficult than making diagnoses. I believe that they have demonstrated State responsibility and that I am not mistaken if I say that their presence in the reconstruction agreements does not have to be because the Spanish Government is asking them to do so; I believe that the Basque society and its voters are asking them to do so. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u232	Thank you very much, Mr Second Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u233	Thank you, Mr. Churches. I too believe - rather I am convinced - that we are called to govern our country. I'm going to talk to you now about Errenteria. It is a Gipuzcoan municipality of 40,000 inhabitants with the highest per capita social expenditure in the entire state, the largest; its social services are recognized as excellent and in this crisis we could say that they have given a real example of solidarity and leadership. They have maintained this social investment without reducing only one euro. They have ensured access to education by providing computers and Internet access to all families that did not have it. They have maintained their public cultural offer by adapting it to current methods. And they have created solidarity networks to support the older ones and those with greater needs, making a great boost. The truth is, they're setting a great example. They are examples of what can be done as much as the important thing is prioritized: people. In Errenteria, Mr. Iglesias, as you will know, we govern together Euskal Herria Bildu and Elkarrekin We can and, most importantly, we govern with citizenship and their rights at the center. That is exactly what we are asking today: to put the common good in the center. These days we have heard them repeat that here we have to sacrifice all and those who have more, and we agree, but our duty is to alleviate and minimize the sacrifice of citizenship, which was sacrificed enough already in the crisis of 2008 to ask them again more. Now it's up to those who never sacrificed themselves. The rich, the multinationals, the banks, the IBEX, are left to assume what they have never assumed. The 11 billion per year of tax evasion of the big fortunes; the more than 13.5 billion that won the six largest Spanish banks only in 2019, that have not yet returned the 60 billion that owes us all; the 1% of the population that has billions of fortunes, as well as the 67 billions of Mr.Amancio Ortega, who then gives us small donations - read advertising charity -, or the almost 57 billions that won the three main electrics in 2019 or the billions of profit accounts of the companies of IBEX. Those are the ones who must be sacrificed now and not the working class. It seems the fairest and the most sensible and I am sure we will agree because we know of their sensitivity, but also of the pressures they will have not to do so. That is why I would like to make a commitment to you today. If they make courageous decisions, bet to defend the workers, we will not be those who put sticks on the wheels, but those who push to get further. I'm done. I wouldn't want to end without talking about culture. Today is their strike, digital strike, and it may serve to realize that culture is also an essential good, a good for building cultured and advanced societies. Can you imagine what it would be like to be confined without being able to watch a movie, without being able to enjoy a book, without being able to engage in a series or without being able to listen to a song? Unbearable, it would be unbearable. An epidemic has had to come to us to realize how important are the creators, the writers, the musicians, the actresses, the producers, the artists or the painters. And they're abandoned. They can't be the last in line, they can't wait for someone to remember them and them because they're having a really bad time. There are also urgent rescue measures for them, economic and social support for the revival of culture. No one imagines a future without them, but if no exits are offered, the sector will sink and we will all lose a great treasure. I'd like to finish with a few words from Xabier Euzkitze, one of our betsolaris. They are originally written in our language, in Basque, and I have taken the liberty of translating them into Spanish because they are very consistent with the current situation, words that I would like to turn into a small recognition to all people who make a good as precious as culture is possible. It says: We lie down in a world and awaken in a different one. Suddenly Disney has lost his magic, Paris is no longer romantic, New York does not wake up, the Chinese Wall is no longer a bulwark and Mecca is empty. Suddenly, hugs and kisses have become dangerous weapons and not to visit family and friends in an act of love. Suddenly, we have realized that power, beauty and money are absolutely worthless because they can't give us that oxygen we need so much. In the meantime, life goes on. And she's beautiful. He's only caged the human race and I think he wants to send us a message. It is this: You are not necessary. The air, the earth, the water and the sky are fine without you. When you return, do not forget that you are my guests and not my owners. I will say this in Basque for respect for him, the author, and for respect for my language. It's very brief. [[He continues his speech in Basque, whose text, which he delivers to the Journal of Sessions, is as follows: 'Airea, lurra, ura éta zerua ederki daude zuek gabe. Zaiteztenean itz, gogoratu nire gondidatuak zaretela, ez nire jabeak'. Xabier Euskitze. Kultur fate guztientzat: zuek gabe, ez gara. Eskerrik asko]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u234	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u235	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, I would like to tell you that as a Spanish woman I feel a great pride in being recited in your language, in Basque, a poem from this rostrum. It's really exciting and your intervention has been beautiful. You spoke in your first intervention of self-government. I think we would make a mistake as a government, the Socialist Party and the United States. We can, if we thought that we could face a lonely emergency like the one we are living in. We have already reached out to all political actors with parliamentary representation. We have also invited civil society - trade unions, employers, third-sector collectives - to call them all for an area of discussion where exceptional challenges will have to be addressed in exceptional circumstances. But we would be very clumsy if we did not understand that our State is composed of a plurality of administrations and that there are the autonomous administrations and there are the local administrations which, in fact, are the ones closest to the citizen. I can assure you not only that there is no centralizing temptation, but, on the contrary, there is an absolute awareness that we either collaborate, coordinate well and assume that we work together, all administrations, regardless of political colour, ideas or managers, or we are going to have a very difficult time facing an emergency like this. Throughout this crisis I have met administrative managers who have lived up to many political colors, with ideas very different from mine, right-wing too, because there are times when exceptionality calls for us to agree to defend certain consensuses that citizens have - I insist - regardless of what they vote. We govern together in Errenteria, but you will agree with me that we do not govern together because we are leftists, because you are abertzales and we are a Basque political formation but with allies at state level, but because we govern well. I think the maximum aspiration of a mayor or a mayor is that someone with another different ideology, someone who votes for another party, says to him: I haven't voted for you, but I think you've done very well since the government, because your job from the government is to govern for everyone and not just for voters. I think that at times of exceptionality like these you can see who has the political height to govern everyone, regardless of the card you carry in your pocket. That is why I think it is key that we live up to what is demonstrating the first line of fighting against the virus, which are public health professionals. Public health professionals heal, play their lives, play their health and don't ask anyone what party they voted for, what their ideas are, or whether they're excited about the flag of Spain, the ikurriña, the senyera or what anthem they're excited about. I believe that this spirit of collaboration among public health professionals must inform reconstruction work in a decentralized State. And I like it to be decentralized. It seems to me that Basque institutions are a patrimony of our democracy, just as the Catalan Generalitat is a patrimony of our democracy, just as Navarro foralism is a patrimony of our democracy, just as administrative decentralization is a patrimony of our democracy called to optimize the effectiveness of our institutions and to give space and express the identity plurality of our homeland. That spirit of coexistence of diversity, of common work of diversity carried out by health professionals, I think it must be the spirit that informs a transversal consensus. And if the gentlemen of the People's Party don't want to be, perhaps sooner or later their voters force them to be. Perhaps the decision that Mr Casado has made to say yes, that he attends the reconstruction agreements, has to do with knowing what his voters think, that they do not think the same as the leadership of his party. Eskerrik asko, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u236	Thank you very much. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO EXPLAIN THE MEASURES EXECUTED BY THE MINISTER OF THE INTERNAL MINISTER FOR CONTROL OF FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS, IN PARTICULAR FREE MOVEMENT OF INFORMATION AND OPINION ON SOCIAL NETWORKS. [[File number 172/000019]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u237	We then turn to the urgent inquiry of the VOX Parliamentary Group, so that the Government can explain the measures that it is implementing with an impact on fundamental rights and freedoms, in particular those announced by the Ministry of the Interior to control the free movement of information and opinion on social networks. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For your defence, Mrs. Olona Choclán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. As we said yesterday, our democracy is bled to death. I accuse, Mr Marlaska, I accuse, giving voice to millions of Spaniards, that this social communist government is using the crisis of the coronavirus as an alibi to take away our rights and freedoms, to impose a regime change with repressive, censoring and authoritarian measures that are clearly arbitrary and illegal. They have kidnapped the Spanish people, Minister of the Interior, gripping them with the most effective shackles, fear, fear as a tool of submission. And to the heart of our fear, Mr Marlaska, rides the destruction of our rule of law, today turned into a state of submission, with social-communist riders, whom Spain and its people have shown, they care very little. Our democracy is bleeding, ladies and gentlemen, and freedom is draining between our fingers. If something has shown us history, it is that with totalitarianism, Mr. Iglesias, there is no dialogue, no struggle, and today I would say to this House and to the Spaniards that in the struggle for law and freedom, as Churchill said, we will never surrender to servitude and shame. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, for boldness and resistance. Since the state of alarm was declared and this Social Communist government began its totalitarian drift by confining the Spaniards to an unconstitutional state of emergency absolutely illegal and stripping us as the days progress and we are losing lives on the path of each and every one of our rights and freedoms, VOX is acting as a real containment dam. Our main concern has been and cannot be, in any other way, the life of our compatriots, and that is why since last January 29th, not since March, as Mr Simancas falsely lied in this rostrum of speakers, we have presented more than one hundred non-law proposals and more than two thousand control questions, despite the illegal gag against the opposition that has been agreed in this Congress. I would like to remind you how we insist, and of course in solitude, on the closure of our borders and the restriction of travellers coming specifically from countries such as China, Italy or South Korea, which were those who at that time, at the beginning of March, were suffering most virulently is the plague of the twenty-first century that plagues us, this Chinese plague. Do you know what an authorized voice said then as our deputy and spokesperson for the Health Commission, our Dr Steegmann? We believe that the Government does not understand the doctrine of communicating vessels. They would have obstructed the hole, they wouldn't have let the infectious fluid through. There are times when a country has to defend its sovereignty. How many lives, ladies and gentlemen, would have been saved if they had listened to us? But you know what they did? They insulted us. They insulted us from the Ministry of Health, and not anyone, one of their experts, the Director General of Professional Ordination, Mr. Rodrigo Gutiérrez, who called us ignorant and xenophobic. But also in this House, and I am going to cite a very concrete example - Mr Echenique, I am sorry that you are leaving us, because I was going to refer to its manifestations precisely: 'In front of the pseudojournalism of journalists wearing masks, in front of the clickbait of 'we are going to die all', in front of the extreme right asking for the closure of borders for a flu less aggressive than that of every year, the rigour and professionalism of Lorenzo Milá'. This tweet was accompanied by a connection with Spanish Television, with Mr. Xabier Fortes - of course - a prominent actor in the news brigade at the service of the ministry of truth of this social communist government, in which Mr. Lorenzo Milá referred to the coronavirus as a flu that affects especially the elderly, because we need to have memory, let us remember. The contempt of this communist social government for older persons in our country has been present from the beginning. They tried to minimize the importance of this pandemic by extending the idea that it only killed the elderly. And they continue to despise the lives of our elders as if it were worth less than that of any other younger person, evicting them in the homes of elders, where I want to remember that more than 14,000 have already died completely evicted, and forcing them to live with corpses, because they have become authentic morgues. And what do we have? They continue to insult the party to which, unfortunately, time has confirmed their health alerts when with the same clarity we raise the voice to denounce that they are abducting the tragedy that plagues Spain to impose in our country the Venezuelan chavista model. I said that in my previous speech. They are taking advantage of this tragedy to advance the same path that Mr. Hugo Chávez has already taken - that Democrat, gentlemen, according to Mr. Pablo Iglesias - that sectarian, that dictator, that bloody coup, to take away from our Venezuelan brothers their rights and freedoms, to fill their pockets with billions of euros expropriated from the people and to turn the great nation of Venezuela into a narco-state, according to the United States. [[The lady]] Mr Marlaska, this social-communist government has made lies a survival system, and that is why, very clearly, without hiding, we have qualified them from Vox as the bubble government. Before I rebut my assertions, I will illustrate them with some very concrete examples, because I do not lie, Mr Marlaska, nor do I commit crimes, however much I am trying to get into prison. January 31st, Fernando Simón: 'Spain is not going to have, at best, beyond some diagnosed case'. 'Salvador Illa rejects alarmism for the coronavirus and says the masks don't work'. María Jesús Montero: 'Spain is ready for the coronavirus'. Twenty-two thousand dead. Ministry of Health, official public network, 26 February: 'When you arrive from a risk zone you can make normal life. If you have no symptoms after 14 days, you do not need to take any measures.' You caskets, Mr. Marlaska, who try to hide them. The Government rejected the World Health Organization five times in February. Of my favourites: 'Calvino sees minor impacts by coronavirus in the economy and specifies that they would be transitory'. We're talking about March 4th. Don Fernando Simón: 'It is not necessary to close schools or universities because it would not help stop the expansion of the coronavirus'. March 25th: 'A March 6th Health Report alerted about the risk of contagion'. But, here, Minister Marlaska, we were going our lives in attending his ideological manifestation: 'Moncloa has shaken up the health alert by the coronavirus six days before March 8'. 'It guarantees coronavirus masks for hospitals and professionals', and we continue to wait for them. You are also, Minister: 'Marlaska assures that pharmacies will have masks by the end of this week'. I was saying it in reference to the previous one and we're still waiting for them, Mr. Marlaska. For not entering the government bubble par excellence, which is the number of dead who to date - and those who will come - have been caused in Spain because of this Chinese plague. Mr Marlaska, you said that this government has nothing to regret. I know you were asked about this yesterday in the Senate, but I would like to see this House, which represents national sovereignty, tell us whether today, with more than 22,000 dead - and that with its figures made up - it has mitigated something that pride is characterizing this social communist government. You, Minister Marlaska, have made the official lie an instrument of survival in power, and no wonder, because you have assaulted Moncloa on the backs of lies and fraud. But for this they need an essential element, to control public opinion, and that is what the monitoring of social networks responds to. They need to identify critical opinion streams to censor and neutralize the dissident. How? It is very easy with the theory of 'everything is bulo'; everything, of course, whatever is not the official lie. They needed to test Spanish society and see to what extent we were prepared to completely renounce our rights and freedoms. And who was the instrument they used? The always surrendered Mr. Tezanos, who has embezzled the Center for Sociological Research and who, through what you and I know perfectly well is a captivating question, led the public to consider that the only good thing was to have, in fact, one official truth, one official source: the governmental lie. And you already have the justification: it is the same Spanish people who have asked for the creation of the ministry of truth. But the truth is that you have already launched it parastatally. Who's looking at what's or isn't a bubble, Mr. Marlaska? Who fixes the official lie? First and foremost, of course, the Government. Everything other than that official lie will have to be considered bull and, of course, retaliated. They're not original, Mr. Marlaska! This has already been applied in Spain! We have already had it during the Second Republic with the Defence Act of 1931, which described as an act of aggression against the Republic 'the dissemination of news that could break credit or disturb peace or public order'. Once the government has determined the government's bubble, it is necessary that the necessary accomplices or co-operators - and I referred to them in my previous intervention - such as the Gestapo or the Information Brigade, qualify you as enjoying the bond of servility. Today I refer again to them and of course they are part - they and the chains to which they are linked - of that ministry of truth. And seeing the vehemently reactions that have occurred, I must say that I am not surprised, because the reality is that groups and chains like The Sixth were accustomed to a surrendered right, and I say this from the utmost respect, but you know perfectly well that it is precisely that popular government and Mrs. Soraya Sáenz of Santa Maria that we must save precisely the Sixth chain. Today, we all suffer the consequences. And a statement like Atresmedia's, in addition to personalizing, does not surprise us either, because only VOX has dared to raise the voice to clearly qualify those 15 million euros that have been included in a royal decree law taking advantage of the pandemic: bribery. And I can assure you that we do not attack journalists, groups or chains in a personalized way. We criticize actions, we criticize that on Spanish public television the terrorism of ETA is whitened by interviewing Otegi. And, of course, what we are not surprised is that it is precisely in The Sixth where Mr. Iglesias goes to make the following demonstrations on April 16th: All democrats must be committed so that the bubble, the insult, the lie, that media and political right, do not in any case form part of the future of our societies. Mr Marlaska - and I conclude, Madam President - this Social Communist government is riding on the back of the lie, but I will not allow it - and I regret in the soul that the President of the Government is not present and that I have to tell you - that they accuse our party - they accuse us of many things but I will not allow it - that we regard homosexuals as sick people; I will not allow it because that is not a governmental bubble, that is a false lie. And you have a lot to cover up, because it is in your government, the former Minister of Justice, who, to refer to a person, did so because of their sexual status, and labeled it in terms that, out of decency, Mr Marlaska, because I fall in shame, I will not repeat them in this rostrum for decorum to this House.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u239	Mrs. Olona, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u240	I conclude, Madam President. Mr. Marlaska, what I can assure you is they won't scare us, they won't scare us. Did you really think we didn't know your purpose by appointing Mrs. Dolores Delgado as the state's attorney general? I conclude as I began, in the defence of right and freedom we will never surrender to servitude and shame. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Catalina. The Minister for the Interior then has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u242	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Olona, I too wanted to begin by thanking all the workers of Congress for their effort and dedication on such difficult days that they allow us to be here and to do our job. I'm accusing you, Emile Zola. I recommend that you read it deeply and soak up the story of Alfred Dreyfus. I do not know why, Mrs Olona, there is the specific question that when I am asked a question, my sexual orientation always appears; I do not know if you have any fixation on it. [[Applauds]] If you'll let me ask you a favor, tell that to the people of Make You Hear, tell them we're not sick. [[Applauds]] This interpellation by your parliamentary group is interested in knowing the measures that the Government is - intercommissioning - 'executing with impairment of fundamental rights and freedoms, in particular those announced by the Ministry of the Interior to control the free movement of information and opinion on social networks' - closure quotes -, I repeat - reopen quotes - 'the measures to control the free movement of information and opinion on social networks' - closure again quotes, this interpellation - said - could be answered in a very quick and simple way: The Ministry of the Interior is obviously not implementing any measures to control the free movement of information and opinion on social networks, and it does not do so for the simple reason that our country is a State of law and, as you well know, Article 20.1 of our Magna letter enshides in its subparagraph (a) the freedom of expression and in subparagraph (d) the right that we have to receive truthful information. Therefore, I can no longer disagree with the statement of the interpellation or with its initial intervention plagued by falsehoods, but I would say something else - and Zola would also say it in J'accuse - plagued by intolerance. In Spain, I repeat for the Journal of Sessions, no measures are being taken to limit freedom of expression or the right to receive truthful information. In Spain, as in the whole world, what is happening is that there is a major health crisis, of extraordinary gravity. A situation that has forced us to stay at home, to reduce our contacts; an exceptional situation that in a few weeks has forced us to change how we work, how we relate to our family, friends, and loved ones. You have also forced us to change how you study and at the same time how the teachers, whom today I want to recognize - rarely the teachers are recognized - the great effort of these days, research, teach, evaluate and also teach us values, Mrs Olona. In short, a situation that has forced us in a very short time to change how we live, connected through cyberspace by consulting sources of information, teleworking and evolving from being information receivers to becoming now too, and thanks to the potential offered by social networks, in transmitters. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Olona, this is a situation that we could describe as unprecedented and which, therefore, makes us vulnerable to misunderstandings; yes, vulnerable to misunderstandings that seek to take advantage of this health crisis and whose actions endanger the health of all. In this new context, the Government and the Ministry of the Interior have one of their priorities - I said it in my appearance to talk about the general lines in the Internal Affairs Commission and I repeat it now - to ensure our digitization. For this reason, aware of the changes that the declaration of state of alarm would entail, since March 13 of this year the ministry has deployed an extraordinary cybersecurity device, the DEC COVID-19, and the objective is nothing other than to carry out digital surveillance. But what's that digital surveillance for? To detect and report possible threats to cybersecurity, tracking social networks - and also, of course, the deep web, the dark web - and to strengthen the work of the Department of National Security of the Presidency of the Government in the context of the anti-disinformation procedure. It is therefore a question of assessing possible threats which, once known, are notified to the Security Forces and Bodies to investigate and act with all the guarantees that our rule of law offers. And when we talk about threats, we don't talk about personal opinions, we don't talk about criticism of executive management. When we talk about threats, we talk about manipulation of official documents about the state of alarm, as sadly happens; of false remedies to prevent and treat the disease, as sadly happens; of manipulation of the real state of essential services such as food or transportation to cause alarm, as sadly we check every day; of phishing, fake websites or scams that pretend to supplant official pages asking for the payment of money, and every day we see it taking advantage of the COVID. And we work for the benefit of all institutions and the websites of all institutions: municipalities, autonomous communities, central government, essential services, critical state institutions. We are talking in this sense, Mrs Olona, about 274 false information events that have been known by the Security Forces and Bodies, many of them about false remedies, as I have said, false remedies to treat and prevent COVID-19 that put the health of our citizens at risk, but there are also scams, as I have indicated. We are also talking, for example, about the 45,773 domains of which the National Police had to ask for the blockade because they carried out illegal and potentially dangerous activities, again taking advantage of this pandemic. We're talking about disillusionment. We are talking about acts organized by misunderstandings that can have harmful effects on our economy and, more importantly, that if they were successful they would put our health and that of the people around us at risk. Therefore, Mrs Olona, freedom of expression is not limited; freedom of opinion and criticism of the management of the Government, to the management that the Government does, is not limited. Our fundamental rights on social networks are not limited; on the contrary, their exercise is reinforced because they are exercised within a framework of certainty. The only thing that is limited, Your Honor, is the conduct, as I have indicated, of disapprehensive people - I hope you do not want to give them protection - who seek to take advantage of this transitory and exceptional situation in order to carry out activities that endanger our health and which on many occasions also constitute a crime. You said that this, what we were supposed to do, had already been done on some other occasion, and was referred to the Second Republic. I hope you're not looking forward to the conclusion in our time being the 39th regime. Madam President, I conclude, and I do, Mrs Olona, as I was beginning. Freedom of expression and the constitutional right to receive truthful information are not controlled. The activities of the disillusioned are limited, the health and rights and freedoms of all citizens are protected. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u243	Thank you very much, Minister. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u244	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, from deep institutional respect, I will tell you that I am not going to play your game. I simply want to stress that it is not to me or my party that you should explain the misery that means that by sexual condition or by any other condition that equals us and does not make us different it qualifies as insult. It's not me or our party, I assure you, Mr. Marlaska. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, totalitarianism does not dialogue, it fights, and, of course, Mr Marlaska, I am not referring to martial combat, but to democratic combat. I am the daughter of democracy, I am part of a democratic party which, if it does anything, is to fight and defend freedom, that of all, Mr Marlaska, also that of you and, of course, that of voters other than our formations. But the moral supremacy of the left is the one that has led to the fact that in this country, without opposition until our appearance, until the appearance of VOX, it has been considered that there must be only one freedom, on one side, and not for all. Now the problem is that you have embraced communism, you have thrown yourselves into your arms, represented by the most sectarian face of Mr.Paul Iglesias. Do you know what's going on, Mr. Marlaska? This determines that you consider that there is freedom to call Mr. Aznar a murderer, to call Mr. Rajoy a corrupt one, to make mockery of Irene Villa or José Antonio Lara, even to throw the masses to go and burn down in the street Genoa the headquarters of the PP. And yet, Mr Grande-Marlaska, when we democratically raise a critical voice, because that is what we do - President Abascal said this morning, it is our right, but also our obligation - they threaten to imprison us, leaking to the media reports of that Office of the Attorney General of the State intentionally occupied by whom two days ago she was the Minister of Justice, to the point that one of the newspapers that are part of that ministry of truth ends up titling: VOX tweeters face penalties of up to five years in prison. For raising your voice, Minister? That's not the Spain we want. But, of course, we're not going to let them corner us. We're standing, we've set foot on the wall. And that's what VOX does, defending democracy, because our democracy, Minister Grande-Marlaska, despite its appearance, certainly bleeds. Minister, I want to show you a document. Do you know this document? [[Show a document]] You know him, I've been able to access him and now I'm going to make him public. It is the report issued by the Attorney General of the State dated 2 April that it is determined that it is not appropriate to incardinate in article 36.6 of that famous Law gag, as you call it, the breaches and limitations imposed by the state of alarm. Do you know of this communication, Minister Grande-Marlaska? [[Show a document]] This is yours, dated April 14. It is the communication sent by you to the delegates of the Government of all Spain where, in the format of a proposal for a sanction that includes, it completely rejects this report of the Advocate General of the State. Now I am going to show you a message published in the official Twitter account, social media, of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party in which it echoes on April 13th of his statements in Today by Today saying: 'This morning there has been a new murder of macho violence in Valladolid'. [[shows a photocopy of a tweet]] Only a few hours later this citizen whom you had publicly accused of murder was released by the investigating court, because neither the prosecutor nor the investigating judge himself had seen any evidence of criminality in his performance. Publicly pointed out by the Minister of the Interior, publicly pointed out by the Socialist Party. What do we call this, Mr. Marlaska? Is this a bubble? I conclude, Madam President. This is the famous communication that General Santiago sent to the commanders from the General Staff where he referred to the identification, study and follow-up, in relation to the situation created by COVID-19, of disinformation campaigns, as well as publications and fake news susceptible to generating social stress and disaffection to government institutions. [[shows a document]] Minister Marlaska, other documents from our armed institute are reproduced, on which I can assure you that you must not give any lesson to our party of affection and deep respect. As you said in a media outlet, I can assure you that we are not going to use the armed institute or any other State institution to access and punish the Minister of the Interior, but we do want to know. We want to know who gave that instruction to General Santiago, and for that reason I announce that today we have requested the creation of a subcommission within the Commission of the Interior, because if something has shown us this Government is that we must trust very little in its words and go to the evidence of the facts. Thank you. [[Applauds.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u245	Thank you very much, Catalina. To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u246	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Olona, I am not going to enter your game, because you are very close to the bubble, because you quote some of my manifestations in the SER of which I then made self-criticism, which you do not do, but were not false nor what I said did not conform to reality. That person was arrested as an alleged perpetrator of a gender-based violence crime, I have to remember. However, I then made self-criticism. That's what's fallacious, not complete the information. That is what has a purpose: to lack the truth, the narration of the facts. That has one purpose: to discredit by missing. That's indecency. [[Applauds]] And I'm talking about the lawyer's report and the instruction I gave. Do I have to let you know that the State Counsel's reports were divergent between them, that they were different from the State Counsel's reports, but that they are not binding? Do I have to inform you about that? Don't you know? Do I have to point out to you, too, that I am a lawyer and have a legal department that complements the State Attorney, to which I would like to pay tribute for your work in the service of the Administration? I would like to pay tribute here to the State Advocate for her work and the quality of her work. But, said this, I'm not going to get into your game anymore. I recognize that the wording of this inquiry seemed absolutely regrettable to me. It was to be expected what his considerations would be in the reply. His first intervention - I have already told you - was full of exaggerations, falsehoods, and frequent qualifications, on the other hand, his statements. He has today made a refrain from the statements he usually makes. Some of them I invite you to withdraw them from the Journal of Sessions, if not all of them, especially because they portray you: I want to do you a favor. Even so, I have made an effort to be didactic in my first intervention, explaining to him what measures are being taken and to what objectives they are aimed: to eradicate behaviors of people who take advantage of a pandemic and put our health at risk. Do you care anything about defenceless older men in your home, children who may find themselves at greater risk of being the victims of paedophiles through networks? I have not heard him talk about the alleged victims that may arise, and sadly, in this situation, apart from talking about the health crisis; I have not heard him talk about it. Its turn has simply been a perseverance in exaggeration, in falsehood and, as I have said, in the lack of parliamentary and institutional rigour. Mrs Olona, I repeat: freedom of expression is not controlled. What you said today says in all places, in all networks, and worse things. I tell you that freedom of expression in a country like Spain is not listening to what I like, it's beautiful: it's listening to you. It is not limited to the right to receive truthful information, no. Against what we fight is against the false, against the misinformation, against what many people can lead to using traditional means supposedly healing a pandemic. You want us to let it go, let's not say it? Your Honor, I repeat to you: 274 disinformation events aimed at taking advantage of people, 45,733 domains that have had to be blocked, cyber-stacked, unsympathetic against those we are acting against. Why are they indignant - I want to end it, because there is little left - and are taken as something personal that acts against disillusioned people who put our health at risk? I don't understand. I said it yesterday in the Senate and I repeat it today in this House: we banish the particular and electoral interest, focusing on overcoming this disease, which is what we all have to try to do. Strengthening our public services: that's what we want. Let's focus on not leaving anyone behind. And let me tell you something else, to see if you can get you to change the tone. He repeated it here today. We are at the seat of popular sovereignty - you and I, as jurists, we know it - and freedom of expression has one plus, it would be missing more, but take into account its public manifestations. You spoke at the beginning of Zola, J ́Accusse and Dreyfus. That really happened a few years earlier, but I say it for one of its manifestations. I will point out to you two recent expressions of yours outside the House, but, of course, you are a parliamentarian: 'This government wanted to introduce euthanasia into Spain and, by the way of the facts, is practicing it in the most ferocious way with our elders'. This is what you said on Spanish Radio and Television Breakfasts last April 13. And the last one, in memory of Dreyfus: 'Yesterday the government took the first step to raise concentration camps in which asymptomatic positives will be confined. Spain 2020, democracy is dead.' There are words about which to be very careful where they are used and how they are used for what they imply. I believe that with these manifestations it is clear that freedom of expression is a bulwark in our country and that we hear many thoughts that we would not like, because we know that there is the wealth of the rule of law, of democracy, of the wealth of all those who fought for the values, rights and freedoms of all. There's the illustration. I'm done. I think you're a smart person. He's young, he's lucky, as he said, to be a daughter of democracy. But be careful, time passes very fast. Try to grasp democratic values, take shelter with them; yes, the values of tolerance, the values of respect for the dignity and diversity of everyone. I'm telling you, it's advice. You have given me others: let me give you some advice. And if you already do me the favor - I end up like this to relax a little bit the atmosphere-that I've asked you, it wouldn't be bad. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u247	Thank you, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u248	We conclude with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 13/2020 of 7 April, adopting certain urgent measures in the field of agricultural employment. The Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food has the floor on behalf of the Government to present the royal decree.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u249	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will indeed present Royal Decree-Law 13/2020 of 7 April on urgent measures in the field of agricultural employment, for debate and validation in this House. But first they'll allow me two personal notes. The first, of course, thanks to all the members of the Congress of Deputies who allow us to hold this session in these exceptional circumstances. The second, of sympathy to all the relatives and friends of all those who died in this pandemic, and also of expression of affection and solidarity for those who are now sick and struggling for their recovery. And you will also allow me, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, to make a public once again here, in the Congress of Deputies, on the exceptional behaviour of our primary sector, of our agri-food chain, of our farmers, our farmers, our fishermen, our cooperative companies and agri-food industries, of companies and distribution workers, who are allowing us in these difficult circumstances to have sufficient supply of food and drink for all citizens. We have rediscovered that this is also a necessary sector and an essential sector for Spain, for our society. And one aspect I would also like to put aside is the fact that this sector not only accounts for 11% of our gross domestic product and employs more than 2 600 000 people in our country, but is currently maintaining the export trend on and outside the European Union markets, which is certainly allowing our traditional markets to be supplied, but I would say that, in a commercially supportive way too, it is feeding all European citizens, who need fruit and vegetables, among whom we are popularly known as the vegetable garden of Europe, because we have gained that recognition. But it is not a problem-free sector, and the first of them is undoubtedly the closure of the Horeca Canal, of hotels, restaurants and bars, which has obviously caused a problem in many sectors: the lamb sector, the goat sheep sector - in particular cheese sector - and also fresh fish, among others, and the cut flower sector. By the way, this morning the President of the Government made mention in his speech at the beginning of the morning of the steps being taken by this Government before the European Commission. At the beginning of the afternoon, the European Commission has announced that, in the coming days, before the end of this month, it will take a decision, as requested by Spain and this Minister, on support for agricultural markets, on the flexibility of the competition rules of Article 222 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and also on aid for private storage. Other problems that have arisen in this context of implementation of Decree 463/2020, of the state of alarm, have been in the field of transport to farms, to plots of agricultural inputs, that is, of how plant protection products, seeds, feed, veterinary care or ice were achieved in fishing activities. Well, fortunately, these ad hoc problems have been solved. But we are also faced with a third problem, which brings us here today with this decree law, which refers to the need for recruitment for work, especially in this spring and summer season, from the end of March to the end of September, which is typical for all agricultural tasks and is so important for the proper functioning of our primary sector, with a difficulty of movement within the Spanish territory resulting from the existing and absolutely necessary health restrictions, and also with restrictions at Community level, within the European Union, in addition to the ministerial order published yesterday in Spain which only reflects the Community decision in relation to third countries outside the European Union. Obviously, this is also a European issue: the same thing that we are discussing this afternoon in the Congress of Deputies has been discussed in France, Germany, Italy, with different solutions in each of the countries, logically depending on the context in which they have been raised. I myself have brought this decree law to the Council of Ministers after having dialogued with the professional agricultural organizations that have requested it from me and also with the autonomous communities. What are we talking about? We are talking about approximately 75 000-80,000 workers needed for these tasks. I have once mentioned the figure of 100 000, 150 000, but in that case I was referring to the number of contracts, not the number of workers, which, after contact with the organizations and delegations and sub-delegations of the Government, we believe could be the figure the quantitative reference of the need of the moment. And where are they needed? They are necessary in very diverse territories of Spain, they are necessary in Andalusia - particularly, in Huelva and Almería -, they are necessary in Extremadura - particularly, in Badajoz -, they are necessary in Murcia, in the Valencian Community - especially, in Alicante, and not so much in the rest, because the citrus campaign is practically completed - in Navarre, La Rioja, Aragón - particularly, in Zaragoza and Huesca - and also in Catalonia - particularly, in Lleida and Tarragona -. In many of these places it is possible, in fact, to find a solution and can be found, even beyond the content of this royal decree law. But, if I have brought this decree-law here today, and it has been approved by the Council of Ministers and published by the State's Official Gazette, it is because there are tasks such as clarification, collection or manipulation in the case of fruit, or, simply, the work necessary at this time of year in the classical agricultural tasks that are absolutely necessary for the proper functioning, as I said before, that our primary sector, and this decree-law responds to a need in a two-way way. Firstly, in a temporary sense, we wanted to limit the validity of the decree law until 30 June. I have done so because, given the exceptional situation and the changing nature of all the reference elements, including those relating to personal protection, rules on travel and so on, it seemed to me good to limit this first part of the campaign until the end of June, without prejudice - I have already indicated publicly several times in recent days - that the Government is open to reconsideration in the coming weeks, at the end of May, in order to extend, if necessary, the content of this decree law and its implementation. Secondly, the second feature concerns the territorial area, a very precise area, a territorial area of proximity. Article 2.2 and the first additional provision clearly define this proximity as a reference element. We did not want to include a figure, a number of kilometers, but a concept that can be interpreted and applied flexibly by the autonomous communities, to which we give the possibility to extend not only the municipal term and the adjacent municipal term, but to a wider territory those work bags, that work that can be done. How does the exceptionality of this decree-law arise? Four categories of persons appear as beneficiaries in its article 2.1: firstly, unemployed workers who do not receive a subsidy; secondly, those unemployed workers who receive - and this is the great novelty - a subsidy, a benefit, whether it be an agricultural subsidy, an agricultural income or the unemployment benefit derived from the general scheme, with the sole exclusion of all the social benefits of ERTE or of other benefits linked to the coronavirus - this is the only specific exception we have proposed, because it seems to us to be clearly incompatible -; thirdly, foreign workers legally resident in Spain whose work permit has expired; and fourthly, young foreigners aged 18 to 21 who wish to enter the labour market. I would like to emphasise this, ladies and gentlemen: it is an extraordinary measure, an extraordinary response to an extraordinary situation, and that is why this compatibility is raised, which is not usual in relation to social benefits and work, whether it be wages or social supplements. The guarantee of labour rights seems to us to be a fundamental element, so not only is the written contract necessary, not only must the wage reflect that in force in a collective agreement, but, if necessary, if the wage table is lower, the minimum inter-professional wage. We have also wanted to explicitly include the fact that the collection of wages has to be effected by bank transfer, precisely for the sake of transparency, in the case of attendance with public benefits, and also, of course, and it is an additional measure of health control, not to use coins and banknotes at the moment. We have also expressly included in the content of the Decree-Law, in its article 4, the need to make available the means of personal protection. And I am moving forward with a possible comment: the issues relating to accommodation and transport have not been included. Accommodation must, of course, and you will agree with me, be an element of dignity, but in this element of dignity not only entrepreneurs, but also municipalities and autonomous communities have a fundamental role, and also with regard to transport; sometimes this transport in private vehicles or vans in some autonomous communities has been replaced, creatively, by unused school buses, which are indeed an effective means of doing so. They will allow me some final comments. The first is that, of course, and I have repeated this several times throughout my speech, this is a timely, extraordinary response to an extraordinary situation. The second thing I want to mean is that there are certainly other means other than the Decree-Law itself to cover this need for labour, this need for agricultural workers, and this Decree does not replace them. Thirdly, the implementation of the decree-law - we have only been in force for ten days - is fundamental, and that is the role that we have given on our own initiative to the autonomous communities, to the autonomous employment services, in connection with the State employment services, and to the employers, that is to say to the agricultural entrepreneurs, to the agricultural and cooperative professional organizations, but - and that is where we are trying to help from the Government and facilitate the task - with particular follow-up by the delegations and sub-delegations of the Government. I must say that in these ten days of the decree-law, many meetings have already been held to establish the needs and how they are covered and I can assure you that this Minister and this Government are sensitive to those needs and, therefore, we have time before us, there are campaigns that are concluding, such as that of the Huelva Strawberry, others that are in progress, such as that of the Nisperus in Alicante, others that are beginning, such as that of cherry. At the moment there is no problem, as I am told, about this, but it is a concern for the future; I am thinking, for example, of garlic, in Montalban, in Cordoba, and in many other places and all these questions will obviously be answered in a timely manner and that is why we are doing this follow-up, indicating - I would like to record in the Journal of Sessions - that we are prepared to look for the formulas that are necessary within this legal framework for this application. If there is a need for an extension and, if there is a need for an adjustment, we will also do so. I'm done. I think this is, ladies and gentlemen, a good measure of labour policy for the agricultural sector, because it has three beneficiaries: firstly, agricultural entrepreneurs, who need these workers to complete the tasks I have described above, and it is very good because I believe that obviously no fruit, no product should be left uncollected for lack of workers. Secondly, it is very positive for workers, for those who are unemployed and who can get a job, for those who have a social benefit and can supplement it extraordinarily. Thirdly, it is very beneficial for all of us, for all the citizens, for all the Spanish society, that, thanks to this good functioning of the primary sector and especially in the fruit and vegetable sector, it can obtain a supply, because, if supply were to decrease, obviously there could not only be supply problems but there would be an increase in prices that would be absolutely harmful to the interests of all citizens. All of these reasons lead me, on behalf of the Government, to ask your honourable Members to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u250	Thank you very much, Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Mr Gimeno, first of all, is speaking for the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u251	Thank you, President. Minister, we recognize the very good will of this decree-law and we will support validation, but I would like to convey to you that in our territory, Aragon, it is not being enough in the days it has been implemented. In view of the limited time I have, I should like to list briefly a number of urgent problems facing the sector and agricultural and livestock employment in recent days. In the sheep sector we are told that, in the face of border closure and hospitality, they need, apart from the EUR 30 per head aid that I believe you announced yesterday, to stimulate exports to traditional markets, to open up new markets, for example Chinese, and also to stimulate national consumption through some advertising campaign or to incorporate their consumption, for example, to public-owned communities such as hospitals, schools or residences. As far as the collection of cherry is concerned, there is a need for a partly specialised labour force; in our territory, it has so far been used by EU immigrants, in general Romanians, who cannot currently come because the entry agreement, according to the European directive, is not allowed. The same is true of cattle skipping, which is carried out by highly specialized people who come from Uruguay and who cannot move either because the borders are closed. This border closure could also be linked to the measure which Italy, for example, has taken, which I do not know whether or not it would be appropriate for us to temporarily legalize 200 000 immigrants who are in the country for agricultural work. It's a proposal. And with regard to the displacements I mentioned, there would be a small detail. If they live together, why can't they move together if those people are already in contact precisely in their residence? Because it is very complex to move by complying with the COVID separation measures. I just wanted to tell you this. Time plays against us. Campaigns are imminent; that of cherry in fact...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u252	Mr. Guitar, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u253	That's all. Just remember the gardens, too.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the same parliamentary group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u255	Thank you very much, Madam President. If you'll excuse me, I'll step in from the seat. It is imperative to address urgently the set of normative measures contained in this royal decree-law that Forum will support with its vote. The health emergency of the COVID-19 poses a great challenge for our farmers for the limitation and even the closure of the markets, as well as for the lack of labour for the collection due to the closure of borders. The sector suffers in the first person the consequences, although it affects the whole population, that it needs the supply to feed itself and also a conversion of the logistic capacity to transport the production and its subsequent marketing. Let me say briefly that I have a special memory for farmers, who in the case of Asturias have also seen a substantial part of production paralysed. In fact, its worrying situation, together with that of farmers, led to a recent declaration by all European ministers in the field to continue to apply exceptional measures and aid that will enable them to tackle the difficulties caused by this epidemic and that will boost the irreplaceable role of the entire agricultural sector in food security, environmental protection and the maintenance of our rural centres, where - I would also like to highlight it - the attention of the orchards is vital for many families. It is necessary, Minister, to continue the support measures so that they are reflected in successive legislative adjustments, which are adapted to the agricultural and livestock needs that are being raised, including those resulting from the most likely reorganization and revision of the CMO after the health emergency has passed, as was recently raised for another very affected sector, such as fisheries and aquaculture. I will support this royal decree law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u256	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u257	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Minister. Although in Cantabria there is no labour problem in terms of agricultural employment at this time, we understand that it is absolutely necessary. It exists elsewhere and out of solidarity with these areas and out of convenience, because it affects us all, we are going to vote in favour. This is one aspect of the royal decree, but there is another that is very important and very necessary for Cantabria. This is the amendment of Royal Decree-Law 8/2020, in which there was a striking absence: the fishing sector, the special regime of sea workers. This has been corrected and we therefore welcome it. This certainly alleviates the situation of fishermen who are self-employed, owners of small boats and collectives such as shellfish and redfish, who are very dear to Cantabria and other areas and who are very often forgotten. This alleviates the situation temporarily, but at the moment we must also think about economic reconstruction and I want to take this moment to remind you that, although the primary sector is not the most punished in all sectors of the economy, we must take advantage of this stage of escalation and I would like to repeat something that other speakers have already said. Tell the entire Government to trust the Autonomous Communities. Its managers know the territory and the people better than anyone else, and it is also those who have been managing most of the skills that are being affected by this pandemic over time. Therefore, trust you in them. I also take this opportunity to reiterate the need for a great pact among all political forces. I don't think this emergency is gonna last forever. I think you can make a sacrifice among all by giving in for these next three years, but the logical thing is that we participate. Imagine that we were a family, really right now we can't be fighting each other.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Finally, also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u259	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. First of all, we certainly have a memory once again for all those people who have died as a result of the coronavirus and, in this case, especially for all those people who were related to the primary sector that we are talking about today. We too will support the Government's decree, but, as we are among the Spaniards who still have the right to criticize the Government, we will use it to say that in our view more action will have to be taken, because it is not working as it is intended to work. At the moment, no labour is arriving in the countryside. There are many problems in many places and the measures are not as appropriate as expected. The case of temporary workers who cannot move is obvious, but this is creating problems and something must be done to solve them. Nor is the price problem being solved. At the moment the farmer is being paid, for example, EUR 0.50 for the artichoke and, however, on the market it is sold at EUR 3.5, 700 % more expensive. Therefore, in the two fundamental aspects sought by the decree, the intended purpose is not being achieved. After almost the entire government has appeared here today - from the President of the Government passing through the Vice-President and the Vice-Presidents to a few ministers - I thought that someone was finally going to say that it was a mistake on 8 March, but I see that they still do not say that it was a mistake. Recently that there is so much talk about bubbles, I have to say that the first bubble, the big bubble, was that of the Spanish government when it said that nothing happened here and that the coronavirus was something that was going to be transient and less than a flu. Obviously, that is not the case, and I therefore believe that it is better to combat that first bubble and not all the others who are being said because they are curtailing the freedoms of the citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u261	Good afternoon. These are days when we talk a lot about safety - occupational safety, health safety - and food security and food sovereignty is also about food being produced in conditions of dignity from the point of view of work. Whatever the territory of the State we are talking about, if we talk about work in the countryside, the situation is far from good. In southern Navarre, the primary sector is experiencing a difficult situation with inadequate prices for production costs as well. The same is true of the Alavese farmers. The first sector is labeled as essential and, indeed, is essential because it produces food of primary need and because its activity cannot be stopped, even in this state of alarm in which we are living. He spoke of Álava and her viticulture, of those vines in which the times do not wait and where it is necessary to perform so that the harvest that will come in September can be given in the conditions expected. There are temporary needs in time and in number of people. And given this situation of the COVID-19, this decree rightly facilitates the work by favoring the conditions so that those who are here unemployed or receiving different benefits can work in these times. Aid for job flexibility is proposed, communities are given autonomy to decide, processing, bureaucracy is simplified, a historical claim by the primary sector itself and which should be maintained, in our opinion, beyond this state of alarm, because if it can now be done, why under normal conditions, if necessary, is not done? To recognize the essentials of the first sector is fine, but we must give it tools, we must make things easier for it and that this crisis also serves us to think about whether what has been done so far was right or not; whether the model of large multinational and globalised companies is the one that makes territory, it is the one that takes care of people or it is that of those who think only for their own benefit. Relocating work, consumption and production can be an opportunity from now on to learn to produce, work and consume much more consciously. I was saying at the beginning that in all the workplaces the conditions are bad, but here there are also extremes and there are extreme conditions, and as is happening now as we are talking in this Chamber, I think it is entirely appropriate to underline the conditions of the workers who are now collecting the fruit in Huelva, of which five thousand are still housed in settlements in deplorable conditions. I had some complaints from the SAT syndicate that I left in my seat. There were a few as a reliable example of this that we are commenting on; there were a few that I have printed but could be hundreds, in fact there are hundreds. They talk about subhuman conditions before the pandemic and now, with the VOCID-19 spinning around, totally dramatic. Measures are needed to put an end to this lactating situation that should embarrass us as a society. Urgent measures are needed to dignify the lives of the workers and there are ways to do so, from the creation of an agricultural patrimony by autonomous communities where land owned by the administrations, embargoes by banks or those that can be expropriated for social interest can be transferred to corporations, small farmers and rural families, to the updating of the wage tables of the agreements, which should not be below the interprofessional minimum wage. And this seems so obvious, yet it is not, it is not, at least it is not in Andalusia. It would be good if we didn't forget to taste those wonderful strawberries, those wonderful strawberries that come from Huelva. We are going to vote in favour of this real decree law, because the changes that are being made are in a positive direction, as they change the rule to try to bring more security to the primary sector in contractual relations and ultimately to distribute the added value in the food chain more fairly. However, attention should be paid to how minimum prices are set per product, as large distributors have already warned that the value of competition may be above farmers and farmers, and because minimum prices can be set according to the scale of the large, highly-technified farms and, therefore, with lower immediate economic costs, which would be detrimental to small artisanal-profile producers, who would again devalue themselves because of the precariousness of prices that would not cover their immediate costs. Here too these invisibles, let us not forget, are the essentials. Thank you very much, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u262	Thank you, ma'am, Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u263	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Firstly, on behalf of my group I would also like to express the appropriate and necessary condolences to all those who have suffered and who, unfortunately, will still suffer the virus and its consequences. I would also like to add to the thanks that other groups and the minister himself have declared at the beginning of their intervention to this essential sector, which is necessary and on which we depend so much, even if we forget about it, which is the primary sector in all its extension, farmers, fishermen, farmers, aquaculture farmers, all the people who work for the necessary products. As the Minister has explained, today we have on the table the validation of this decree adopting urgent measures in the field of agricultural employment, measures which I have already told you from the outset that we believe to be positive, even if the health crisis we are suffering had not existed. The reasons that have led the Government to take these urgent measures have already been explained by the Minister, and we understand and share them, although we anticipate that they may be short. It is therefore addressed to those workers who are unemployed or out of work or to those whose contracts have been suspended by the temporary closure of the activity, excluding those affected by ERTE - that is what we are going to talk about later - and they will be able to access immigrants and young people from third countries. And we are glad to hear from the minister that this measure may even extend over time. The urgency of these measures, as well as those raised in Decree No. 5/2020, which is currently under way as a draft law, reflects the need to go into real depth in important problems facing the agricultural and livestock sectors, a situation with fissures and structural problems that this crisis has exacerbated further. This is not the time to delve into everything that concerns this sector in its full dimension, but this crisis has also served to be aware of two basic issues. First of all, this crisis has served us to realize the basic and fundamental that is the work that our first sector does to equip us with healthy and fresh food, vital for all. And, secondly, it has served us to deepen the need that, in order for this sector to remain alive, its products must be consumed, they need help. To this end, my group understands that it would be important, even if it is not directly linked to this decree, but we owe it to the sector, that the consumption of vegetables, fruit or fresh fish, which is so necessary right now, should be boosted from the institutions. Our farmers and our fishing fleet produce them and need that support right now. The consumption of these products by society must be encouraged, because it is good for everyone and good for the sector. Let us therefore do something from the government, Minister, to encourage the consumption of such products; fishermen, farmers, aquaculture and livestock farmers are asking us to do so. We understand that by force of nature, which understands its own natural and temporal cycles but does not understand human problems, this urgent action has had to be taken. That is why it is essential that we expand the spectrum and be able to identify at this time of crisis what other needs are also pressing the sector. In my country, both in the Basque Autonomous Community and in Navarre, because of the type of agriculture that we have, mainly in the autonomous community, we do not have that kind of concern that they do have elsewhere in the state to implement these measures, but so and so and everything will have an impact and we hope that it will be positive. The biggest problem now is the hiring of persons who receive GIR, in the case of the Basque Autonomous Community, because the amount they received for that GIR, for that Income Guarantee Income, is higher than what they earn for the collection of production or for the sprinkling, pruning or clearing in the case of the vineyard. Therefore, because of the possibility of hiring people from outside who perceive GIR, it will be positive. Another issue will be that the country's own people, a person who is unemployed, for example, or who is affected by cessation of activity or who perceives GIR, will do agricultural work when they have not done so far. That is another issue; at least, to date, those work has never done them, but let us hope that this measure can be an incentive. But, said this, it cannot be used to question - as some right-wing parties do, which we have seen here today, moreover - the GIR, for example, to question the Income Guarantee Income, which we in Euskadi have been with it for thirty years and was my party one of the drivers of this measure, being an example of a social country, which leaves no one in the gutter. Therefore, it is not appropriate to question it, but to value it. That is true, we will have to review the wages that are offered for carrying out these agricultural work; for work and for not working it cannot be paid the same. In Nafarroa this measure was launched as early as 2016 by the government led by Uxue Barkos, as a formula for guaranteed income collectors to work in the field, without the loss of aid. Over the past year, around a thousand recipients of this income have found employment in the agricultural sector. And now, more than ever, this measure will also facilitate the work of the sector and, consequently, the supply of the population in Navarre. I have to finish, Madam President, I know I have no time left, but I did not want to finish without questioning two points that appear in this decree. On the one hand, with regard to the special allowance for self-employed persons, it was pending its incorporation, because Royal Decree 8/2020 did not provide for self-employed persons for certain agricultural productions with unequal income or in extended periods. This measure I think is insufficient, because the benefit is 70% of the regulatory base and can range from EUR 600, but only for a month that can be extended until the end of the alarm period. Now, if it's going to expand, it'll probably be better. I would also like to say that it would have been a good thing for these tasks in Euskadi to be able to count on the labour force, because we have been told by the sector itself, of the ERTE, mainly of the hotel industry, that it might have been useful to open the spectrum and facilitate these tasks; take this into account. Finally, Madam President - and I finish with this - we consider the first additional provision unnecessary and dangerous, which we must consider disturbing, since the intervention of the delegation and sub-delegation from the Government in the exercise of the employment policies of the Autonomous Communities, which as regards Euskadi as competent in these active employment policies and the competence and implementation of State labour legislation, as provided for in Article 11 of the Statute of Autonomy, has so far been coordinated in a fluid way with SEPE, with the competent ministries of employment in the Spanish State, as well as with the European Social Fund and other funds and employment plans of the institutions of the European Union. Therefore, we consider it unnecessary, unless there is another intention, that I prefer to think that there is none. Finally, I would like to say that we will support validation, and we do not consider it necessary, in this case, because of its urgency, to be treated as a bill. In any case, it is a matter to be deepened and whether you are going to expand and whether you are going to consider this as something that can be made possible and that expands the spectrum of work in the field, because it will always be the help or, at least, the collaboration of this parliamentary group in order to carry it out. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u264	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u265	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, minister. The agricultural sector the farm workers, the fishermen, the farmers, are playing an essential role in this crisis of the COVID-19, as we have pointed out I believe that all of us who have come up to this rostrum. These workers are heroes too, even if we do not always recognize them as they deserve their work, they are humble, silent heroes with spent hands. In short, it is the workers in the agricultural sector who have made it possible - at the hardest moments of this pandemic, when our legs trembled, managed to stand firm - to guarantee the supply and distribution chain. Nor did they fail us later by collaborating in the disinfection of the virus without abandoning their agricultural work. From here, and on behalf of my parliamentary group, Citizens, I would like to express our gratitude for all the efforts made to the confreres, to the farms, to the cooperatives, to their employees and to the organizations. Ladies and gentlemen, the sector now needs us and we cannot fail them, not least because food security depends on it for all of us. For this reason, we need to deal quickly with the problem of the lack of labour, the so-called temporary workers, at this time of collection in order to ensure the supply of the entire population; it is peremptory. In the last campaign in Spain there were more than 90,000 workers on temporary contracts. For this year the objective of the Ministry of Agriculture is to mobilize the necessary numbers, also rounding these figures, as the minister has mentioned, without violating the conditions of confinement, an ambitious objective - what is doubt - especially in the light of the concrete proposal that brings us to this House and that remains - let us say - rather short. It was suggested weeks ago that the employment offices should summon long-term unemployed people to offer them employment in crop collection. Whether this measure works or not - and there are reasons for skepticism - many more are needed. The measures and aid that have been taken so far - along the lines of most of your policies towards the agricultural sector - are very positive but insufficient, Minister. Time is running out, and at this point the companies in the countryside are not going to be able to hire the temps they need. Let us stop - please stop - the loss of life and sit down and work together all at once, because if agricultural enterprises are left out of the labour force behind, there could be food shortages. In these days on my land, in Valencia - also throughout the national territory, as you have already mentioned - it is dramatically evident that the fight against COVID is full of paradoxes, and while attending the historical destruction of jobs and a student of ERTE that collapses SEPE's offices, the labor needs in the field are extraordinary. This issue is certainly one that must be addressed as a matter of priority in our proposal for a reconstruction pact, but we must do so now, because the best idea, Minister, if it has no political will, is empty of content. Thus, in addition to the measures already established, we are seeing the private initiative, like other times, which reveals the inadequacy of the Government's actions, such as the initiative carried out by Asaja with the labour market, promoting recruitment instruments to secure the agricultural labour force. The result of this reality is the present royal decree law, with the aim of encouraging the necessary labour to be incorporated under conditions more advantageous than the traditional ones, granting the possibility of making the wage compatible with particular aids, such as unemployment coverage. It must be recognized that we have received this measure with approval but without much enthusiasm, since despite the logical approach of many measures contained in this royal decree law, such as the one mentioned above, the text imposes too many restrictions and certain conditions that will make it difficult to incorporate that necessary labour. Moreover, minister, this royal decree law lacks ambition. In order to guide the debate and seek solutions we should look at what other countries in our environment are doing, European countries with similar problems that in summary coincide in line with what Spain is already doing: resources to stand still, flexibility of recruitment, regulation with extension of permits - if necessary - of migrants who are already working. But other countries, ladies and gentlemen, are moving much faster in the use of new tools, such as digital platforms, where the supply and demand for work for this sector can be found, quickly and without bureaucratic obstacles. We must ask ourselves why, if they work in the rest of the countries and they are working well, they do not work in Spain. Hence what has also been mentioned in this rostrum: the structural problems of those who suffer from the agricultural sector, old vices, structural problems that remain after forty years and that are also reflected in this royal decree law; bureaucratic obstacles, great announcements and then a lot of small letter that leaves out of the proposals to the majority by the people who want to aim. I could comment on examples, such as that of France, which need a real army of temporary workers - they speak of 200,000 temporary workers only in the next three months - and which has launched this employment portal precisely for that purpose, in order to marry supply and demand; in Germany, the same thing; in Italy, residence permits have been extended, and the sector, which annually needs 370,000 people, believes that it will require more flexibility in recruitment, and in the United Kingdom will try to cover the lack of its 70 000 temporary workers with students and special permits coordinated through a government website. Faced with the limitation that this royal decree law imposes to move from one community to another, in our group we believe that it is necessary to enable this possibility, especially considering that in Spain we are faced with a situation of generalized confinement and there are no particular segments by communities. These measures from other European countries could also inspire similar measures or initiatives in Spain. In addition, working conditions must be reconciled with the general rules of confinement, avoiding the spread of the virus; it must be ensured that employees arriving are in good health or know the work they have to do. That is why, in conclusion, because I am running out of time, we believe that the Government's measures can be improved by acting on some of the main axes: to bet on a digitalisation platform that coordinates the recruitment of workers, to establish, whenever possible, a short period of adaptation and learning, or to design and establish green corridors to promote geographical mobility in the national territory of potential temporary workers. Ultimately, we believe that the implementation of these measures is within the reach of the Government and will contribute to improving the national strategy to ensure the food supply and viability of agricultural and livestock farms. For these reasons, Minister, I would like to inform you that we will support the validation of the Royal Decree-Law, but we also consider it essential that it be processed as an urgent bill in order to correct its shortcomings and contribute to the improvement of the regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u266	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u267	Minister, I will only give you two notes to explain why we are going to abstain, not so much for what is there but for what is missing. This decree, in addition to being used to modify other provisions, focuses on solving the problems caused by the health crisis in a certain type of agriculture, with a special presence in Andalusia and in Levante; and the first point is that it does so mainly by reaching out to young immigrants. Therefore, we think it would be good that, in addition to using them as cheap labour when they need them, they remember to guarantee their rights especially to a dignified life, and that is, first of all, to monitor and combat the overexploitation that is normally associated with their precarious situation in the Spanish State; the right to a dignified life that we demand for our people from the countryside and the sea. The second point is that we think it is good for them to deal with Andalusian and Mediterranean agriculture, but we see that again for the Madrid governments, whatever they may be, Galicia counts little or does not count. Our reality in the primary sector is also complex and is directly affected by the health crisis both in the field and at sea and you did not want to solve it despite the BNG's proposals in this regard. There is, for example, the problem of marketing in the field in relation to nearby peasant markets, of falling demand in sectors such as meat or also management difficulties in specific areas such as ornamental plant and cut flowers. There is also the problem in bass fishing and very especially - and I want to refer to this - in the shellfish sector, a sector that gives work in Galicia to more than 6600 people, usually with low incomes, and in which it was necessary to have declared the temporary cessation of activity in order to avoid its ruin due to lack of demand, since the fundamental destination of the product, the restoration, is closed.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u268	Mr. Rego, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u269	I'm done. With the decree of alarm you were arrogated the ability to make decisions, including those that are ordinarily the responsibility of the autonomous communities, but then, when it was appropriate to do so, you did not do so. Unfortunately, they missed with this decree the opportunity to resolve some situations in Galicia's primary sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u270	Thank you, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u271	Thank you very much, President. Firstly, I would like to remind you that today is Earth Day so that we value the importance of caring for this house in which we live on loan and, secondly, so that we learn in these extraordinary days to value a sector as linked to the land as is the agricultural sector. We would like to convey some considerations to you. First of all, you talked about the closure of the Horeca Canal, the hotel shop and the restaurants. Sedentary sales markets are having problems in some villages so that these farmers can take out their products. I would ask you to intervene so that it can be regulated and that you can open these unsettled sales markets to get these products out. Secondly, I believe that this decree bares the lies of some parties that criminalized immigrants from so many evils. Without immigrants, without immigrants, right now much of our fruit, of our vegetables, of our agricultural products would remain uncollected. Therefore, I believe that some parties that promote these kinds of lies that some of the immigrants come to take away our work, this decree strips them absolutely. And last but not least, we ask you for two things. First, consider the extraordinary flexibility of the rules of social roots, i.e. for persons who do not have a residence permit, who are established to have a contract of one year or two of six months; consider lowering it. Secondly, avoid double contributions on common contingencies of those who are receiving some benefit and are already contributing on common contingencies, so that the employer can save himself money that in turn allows more people to be hired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u272	Thank you very much, Mr Baldoví. Finally, for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u273	Good afternoon. The measures detailed in the Royal Decree-Law are not enough, they remain short to meet the urgent needs of finding the labour needed to carry out the agrarian campaign that has already begun in some of our peoples. The Government must work to ensure this, and it must facilitate the mobility of temporary workers at the territorial level and at the level of other countries. I am aware that the last meeting between different trade union organizations and the Deputy Government Delegate in Lleida announced the possibility of changing the interpretation of the royal decree law and allowing the mobility of those national workers who have a contract of employment in their hands. Mr Minister, it is vital that farmers are certain that the change of interpretation of the royal decree is a reality. We are concerned by Junts per Catalunya and want to know what it thinks about the possible mobility of temporary workers from other countries knowing that this is vital to be able to carry out the campaign, because with the national workforce it is not enough to be able to respond to the needs of the countryside. Aware of what COVID-19 entails with regard to international recruitment and given that the primary sector is essential, we believe that the necessary formulas should be sought in order to be able to carry out the current campaign. Minister, it is necessary to mention that some of the Community and non-Community workers, who have a fixed-term contract of employment, were on vacation in their countries of origin during the declaration of the state of alarm, but with the approved restrictions they are not allowed to travel to further develop their work. What do we do with these contracts? I have focused my intervention on the basis of the actual decree that we intend to validate today, but I think we are all aware that the sector was going through one of the worst moments before the crisis of COVID-19. That is to say, apart from being able to save the labour campaign, we have to bear in mind other measures that the sector has tirelessly demanded, such as ensuring prices worthy of the products in order to ensure the economic viability of the farms. On the other hand, the reduction of modules. I know it is not within the competence of your ministry, but you can do something about it. Minister, I ask you to consider reviewing the order published last April 6th, by which you reduce the net yield rates for the 2019 tax period. The municipalities of the province of Lérida have a comparative aggravation regarding other municipalities and I also ask why the municipalities affected by the fires of the Ribera d'Ebre do not come out in this reduction. [[The lady]] To conclude, Junts per Catalunya will vote in favour of the royal decree and we ask that it be treated as a bill to have the possibility to provide measures that add to the benefit of the sector. Now yes, I finally thank the whole agricultural and livestock sector. You guys never fail, and this time you don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u274	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u275	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow parliamentarians Inés Granollers and Xavi Eritja, our advisor Bernat Tresserras and our colleague from the Pays Valencià Josep Barberà because this speech is theirs, it is theirs, and I will only be their voice. This crisis is serving us to clearly distinguish that essential, irreplaceable or vital from that accessory. Those who sought to convince us that the market can do everything and that the invisible hand would come to our rescue when we needed it are those who now speak of the goodness of our public system and demand greater weight from the state in all of it. This crisis is proving many things, but one prevails above all: without industry or agriculture we are much more vulnerable. The outsourcing of the economy by obviating the maximum that with the things of eating we do not play has led us directly to this misery. Macron said - and for once we agree without precedent - that agriculture has to be outside the laws of the market. We absolutely agree. We denounce the use of Mediterranean crops as a currency of exchange in agreements with foreign countries, as well as the perpetual discrimination in the CAP of these crops, which has caused, for example, the Valencia Country to be the autonomous community leader in abandoned agricultural areas; we are talking about more than 161,000 hectares. Globalization, market liberalization and deregulation have created a system of interdependence that has brought wild and fallacious growth based on deep inequalities. If we want the reconstruction of a new reality to be made by putting life at the centre, we must start from now on. Agriculture must be an essential sector and therefore its activity must be ensured by taking the necessary measures. At the moment, the health crisis of the COVID-19, the challenges facing the sector are basically two: ensuring the required sanitary and hygienic measures and covering the peaks of labour demand foreseen in the different agricultural campaigns. The risk is that, with the labour measures that you are proposing - which you are proposing, Minister - you will not be able to cover the peaks of exceptional labour demand, which require, for example, planned campaigns for the collection and harvesting of bone fruit in June, July and August. In this campaign, which concerns the fruit region of Lleida and Huesca, some 56 000 temporary workers will be required: 33 000 in Lleida and 23 000 in Huesca. Or the campaign of bone fruit in Alacant, where, according to Asaja Alicante's estimate, the field lacks to cover 60% of the jobs generated by the collection of fruit and vegetables, which threatens to leave 40% of the production in the stands, leaving markets out of supply and, therefore, increasing the cost of the product. The measures proposed by the Royal Decree basically focus on the activation of the local labour market to avoid risks and increase costs with the hiring of non-local labour. It seems to us to be a reasonable measure, since in times of pandemic containment the hiring of non-local labour and, therefore, the large displacements of people between territories, should obviously be the last option. In this respect, our group proposes a number of flexibility measures which would allow the local labour market to be absorbed and balanced in the first instance. We put in place exceptional temporary recruitment measures in the agricultural sector for workers employed in an ERTE, without causing them to lose their status. Today, people enrolled in an ERTE cannot submit to another full-time job offer without the loss of their current status. It's unfair and we'd like it to change. We also propose flexibilization measures for the permanent regularization of undocumented people, of the so-called illegal evils. From our point of view, of course, there are no illegal persons. We propose lowering the requirement for the acquisition of work authorization and lowering the requirement for a contract from twelve months to three months. We also suggest the repatriation of workers with fixed, discontinuous contracts or with more than five years' contributions to the same company, especially cross-border workers from the European Union who, due to the temporary nature of the campaigns, are now confined in their countries of origin, even though they have residence and work permits in order. Its importance is that in many cases they are intermediate technical frameworks in the production chain that are difficult to replace. We insist that priority should be to avoid unnecessary risks and costs in hiring local labour, activating the nearest labour market. On the one hand, only in Lleida's demarcation, for example, we have 38 000 people affected by an ERTE, and more than 200 000 in the whole of the Valencià Country; people who, as you know, have not paid their respective salaries. On the other hand, we have a migrant population without a work permit for not having a one-year contract and an agricultural sector without a labour force. In the demarcation of Lleida, to continue with the same examples, 33 000 people would be needed; and only in the demarcation of Alacant would the figure amount to tens of thousands more. If we allow employees affected by an ERTE to work in the agricultural sector without losing their right to ERTE and we change the Aliens Act allowing all persons who have migrated under a three-month contract to be regularized, the agricultural sector would have no labour problems. It is a matter of necessity, but it is also a question of justice. However, we cannot renounce the temporary recruitment of workers from other autonomous communities, provided that the required sanitary and hygienic measures can be guaranteed. The Royal Decree does not prevent workers from being hired further away if accommodation and transport are guaranteed in conditions. Our proposal requires not only health and hygiene measures for accommodation, but also decent transport. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we must save this campaign as it is. We owe it to the farmers, who have worked all these weeks to supply shops and supermarkets and thus feed us when most of us were locked up in our homes, and we owe it to ourselves as a society, as a bet compatible with life and well-being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u276	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u277	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will start this speech, like other Members, by thanking all and all Spanish fishermen, farmers and livestock workers for their work in maintaining the markets supplied during these hard weeks. This royal decree seeks to respond to the lack of workers in these sectors, at a time when there is a coincidence of the crisis generated by the COVID-19 with several of the campaigns with greater activity and of great agricultural importance such as fruit, summer crops or strawberries. We will already vote in favour of this royal decree because we understand its need but, at the same time, we believe that this opportunity should be used to make some reflections on the reality of the field and of the work in the field in this country. In particular, there are two issues we want to address, which we want to bring here today. Firstly, the important work carried out in Spain by the immigrant population. 90% of the labour force we are discussing today is mainly covered - or has been covered in previous years - by the immigrant population. Secondly, the need to improve the working conditions of rural workers. In relation to these conditions, a few weeks ago - not too many, but it seems that it was another world, because it was before the COVID-19 - the UN rapporteur, after a broad visit to Spain, issued a report which concluded with a number of devastating assertions such as, for example, that social and economic rights are rarely taken seriously in Spain. Coronavirus had not yet arrived, but misery was already here; with 26.1% of the population at risk of social exclusion, it stressed that poverty levels did not match our economic level. Spain is the fourth richest country in the European Union, he said; it can be allowed to do much better; poverty is a political decision. In particular, referring to the strawberry harvesters in Huelva, he was amazed to see their living conditions and claimed that they live as animals while large companies earn millions of euros. As for their accommodation - which I believe is one of the improvements that this royal decree would need because I do believe that it is an issue that should be addressed - the UN rapporteur said: They are scallops, basically; like a small people growing up with tents made of plastic that are used to cover strawberries. There was no electricity, there was no water, they had to go down kilometers to get it. For toilets they had only one place where four people could put themselves in squats at the same time, without privacy, of course. To shower, they heated the water in the fire and then threw it on it. And they made 30 euros a day. Of course, they are shivering words, and now we have the opportunity to bring this issue here and to reflect and discuss it. Today we are dealing with this royal decree because certain urgent measures are taken in the field of agricultural employment, because a part of the immigrant population carrying out this work cannot come, will not come, because of the closure of borders. And now, paradoxically, we're missing her. The current situation certainly shows all that the immigrant population, so many times repugnant to some, brings to our country and to the economy of our country. Today, Mrs Olona referred to COVID-19 as the Chinese plague. That expression has a deep xenophobic content and I believe that whoever ascends to this rostrum has a responsibility and should avoid such expressions, because we already know what they generate in citizenship. [[The lady]] Paradoxically, we are seeing precisely because of their need, that they and they, these workers, also make their homeland; they make their homeland, precisely, by providing their work for food to reach our markets and now, as I say, we are missing them. The minister said earlier...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u278	I'm sorry to interrupt you, Mr. López de Uralde. I ask you to join the recognition of our health care providers, as our fellow citizens do. [[Prolonged applause, with the House set up]] Thank you so much. You may continue, Mr. López de Uralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u279	Thank you very much. Minister, I was commenting that, as nine hundred organizations and groups are already demanding, the current crisis of COVID is an opportunity for no irregular person to remain in our country. Thousands of very unprotected people must have access to basic aid in the face of the crisis, such as the vital minimum income, while at the same time allowing them access to the posts that are now offered through that royal decree. Note, for example, in Aragon - and according to UAGA data - 93% of the 3500 job seekers who are offering are irregular immigrants. Posts are unlikely to be covered and crops lost. Therefore, in this social, health and economic crisis we need to ensure that all people are safe and to be safe people need to be in a regular situation. This is something that has been done in the health sector and that I believe can also be done in the agricultural sector, because we are seeing its importance. This, by the way, has also been called for by the Ombudsman himself: speeding up work permits. I therefore believe that we can and must be more ambitious and we must speed up these permits. In addition, this Royal Decree is laying the foundations for facilitating access to this essential labour force to meet labour guarantees as well as ensuring adequate labour rights: written contract, security measures against COVID-19, payment of which is not below the inter-professional minimum wage, etc. We believe that this is a step forward, that it is essential progress, but we also need to be more ambitious and we need to ensure that adequate transport and accommodation conditions are provided for workers. We cannot look elsewhere at this situation which the United Nations rapporteur has written to us, a situation which is also being denounced, as has become clear, by the trade unions themselves. I also wanted to devote one minute of my speech to the issue of gardens. I would like to remind you that it is essential to allow work in the orchards, as has been said today by a number of Members from other territories. Indeed, the risk of transmission of COVID by work the gardens is very small, as is the case with the legalisation of the surrounding markets, since precisely those markets that allow the supply of the local product are open markets and are therefore much safer for the customer and the seller than the supermarkets or closed markets. While the production and food supply capacity is being key in these weeks, the fact is that the large distributors are once again the beneficiaries of this agro-industrial model that makes us dependent on products grown in distant places. It is therefore essential to recover and enhance our primary sector, helping to relocate agricultural production and produce food that can be distributed and marketed in close proximity, in order to achieve the objective of food security and sovereignty.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u280	Mr. López de Uralde, you'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u281	I'm done, Madam President. However, we will ensure, I am sure, the workforce that is legitimately claiming this part of the sector. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u282	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Pilar. Mr Chamorro Delmo has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u283	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all, I would like to express my condolences to all the dead and victims of this terrible pandemic, which is being particularly dramatic in Spain. Secondly, I want to publicly support all those who are on the front line in this pandemic, such as health care workers, State Security Forces and Corpses, the Army, as well as farmers, fishermen and livestock farmers, who feed us all. That is why we call for support for our national agri-food sector and for the purchase of our national products. Mr Minister, although insufficient, we believe that this royal decree is appropriate in view of the situation in the Spanish countryside due to a lack of manpower. We are grateful that, unlike other ministries such as the Ministry of Health, the opinion of the real experts is taken into account in agriculture to carry out initiatives such as this. I have to tell you that from the VOX Parliamentary Group we have tabled in relation to Agriculture since the beginning of this crisis a multitude of initiatives, and in particular twenty-four non-law proposals and some one hundred and forty questions to try to help our farmers, farmers and fishermen, and so that the primary sector can fulfil its primary role in this state of alarm. On this issue of temporary workers in the state of alarm, we put forward a first non-law proposal on 30 March, but for obvious reasons it will not be discussed, so the debate is what we have today. It is tangible that it is necessary to make an extraordinary effort to ensure that people join the work in the agricultural sector and not lose their crops. You spoke before small numbers, but there are between 100,000 and 150 000 workers who need the countryside. In this way, it would also be a way out for workers who are unemployed, for the millions of unemployed. Facilitating work we consider it a patriotic and social issue. Also, this work is important to supply the Spaniards with fresh and quality food, and at the same time, through our surpluses in the agri-food sector, we can help neighbouring countries. Spain is already a food-exporting power in the European economic area and we must remain so. It is patriotic, as I said, to facilitate the incorporation of Spanish workers and to contribute by the State to the maintenance of the primary sector with the work and with the assistance that is necessary; an issue with a clear focus on the common good, very different from the announcement of the communist minimum income that the Government intends to articulate and that can have a disincentive effect that causes the potential labour to remain at home with such help, quite contrary to what is sought by this royal decree. Despite considering the actual decree to be appropriate, we believe that there are certain issues that need to be improved. We believe that the temporary teams need an effort on the part of the State to facilitate a wide range of their movements and accommodation in security circumstances. It is not logical that the recruitment of teams from other provinces within the national territory is not feasible. The very essence of temporality in the agricultural world, as you well know, requires displacement. We believe that the employer must be assisted so that he can provide accommodation for temporary workers as a complement to article 2.2 of the Royal Decree. As you know, there are also 14,000 Spanish workers who today France rejects because of this crisis, and they are even being despised by the image that our country is giving because it has a higher rate of deaths and the worst management. Let us give these Spaniards facilities, decent salaries, and working in Spain and for Spain, and call on the European Union to facilitate the transfer of Community workers to ensure the common agricultural policy. We would like to know why the Government excludes from the beneficiaries of temporary flexibility measures workers affected by ERTE because of COVID-19 and, in the same way, self-employed persons who have been forced to close their businesses. There are more than two million people affected by ERTE and every day there are an additional one hundred thousand. There is a need for a single national recruitment register, as we have requested in our parliamentary initiatives, to coordinate all synergies throughout the national territory. We commend the efforts of agricultural associations and the rural world that are creating platforms to facilitate recruitment. Young people of working age, including students, have also been left out. On the other hand, we consider the waiting time for the decree to be insufficient, until 30 June, and we believe that it should apply at least until October. With regard to the amendment included in this Royal Decree of Article 17 of Royal Decree-Law 8/2020, in relation to the extraordinary termination benefit for self-employed farmers in the agricultural sector, we consider that the 75 % turnover loss limit for access to the benefit is very high, it would be more logical to reduce these losses to 50 %. As I said on this stand last February 18th, VOX is committed to an ambitious national strategic plan for the future of the field that takes into account all the variables affecting these sectors in the economic, social and cultural sphere, taking into account the importance that our training gives to national and Community food preference, and to the primary sector as a geostrategic sector for Spain that needs to be protected, taking into account the constitutional mandate that in Article 130 of the Constitution states that the public authorities will attend to the modernization and development of all economic sectors, in particular agriculture, livestock, fisheries and handicrafts, in order to match the standard of living of all Spaniards. As you know, national sovereignty resides in the Spanish people, from whom the powers of the State emanate. Sovereignty in Spain resides in one people; we are not a State composed of sovereignty or a plurinational State. This is the true democratic principle that we should all defend. By this principle we are governed by VOX and, as a development of this principle, we consider national and Community food preference to be a matter of national security and cohesion. That is why we will defend with all our strength those who supply and feed the Spaniards. In order for our Spanish countryside to remain alive, we need work, social justice and dignity for the rural world, not ration books or communist parrots. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u284	Thank you, Mr. Chamorro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Marcos Ortega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u285	Good afternoon, Madam President. Minister, nearly 22,000 people who have died in Spain are the first thing that must occupy our thoughts and move our sense of mourning. There are about 32,000 infected health care providers and more than 200,000 Spanish people already affected by coronavirus. For them, the affection and encouragement of the whole People's Parliamentary Group. The situation is extremely complicated. Precisely, therefore, we must focus on minimizing the impact of the pandemic. The situation is so exceptional that no one knows what needs to be done, but among all, and listening, Minister, it will surely be easier to get it right. We see how, in general, the government has taken the health council to the letter, but precisely in this it does not have to wash its hands. They seek guilty rather than solutions, close the transparency portal and impose information censorship. The more answers, the more clarity and security people need, the more tumbles and bandages you give. Today they propose another royal decree law that re-changes the situation of the self-employed. It is the third version in four weeks and also camouflaged in an agrarian employment standard. They will not be surprised that one in two Spanish people lose their jobs, or that 86% of SMEs see their survival at risk; the only thing they have insurance is that they have to pay without entering. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we must not wash our hands in this; we must support those who want to work and create jobs. They must prevent those who are asking for help today to hire around 100 or 200 000 workers, according to the organisations, from closing their businesses tomorrow and being unemployed. The agri-food sector, farmers, farmers, industries, distribution, are giving everything for us. And everything for nothing; and when I say nothing, it's nothing. They and only they are guaranteeing supply and you know, like me, that food shortages could be the foreground of a major social crisis. The People's Party is and has always been with the people of the countryside. Almost a month ago, he reached out to him and asked him to deal with the problems of farmers and livestock farmers in the pandemic. Well, a month later we're the same or worse. They will certainly appreciate the support that the European Union has announced today - it is very much to be thanked - but the problems with the negotiation of contracts follow. The sale of oil, wine and cheese has fallen exponentially. Has anything been done to lower tariffs? No, the rest of the countries do. The livestock of meat and milk, of lidia, the ornamental flora, what can they do? They're still waiting. While you make ads without a budget, they accumulate expenses and pay taxes. The media were more fortunate; from one day to another 115 million euros. Sounds good to me, but the primary sector for when and how much? Industry and distribution still have no masks, no coats, no gloves and now they can't take a test either. That is why absenteeism at work is as considerable and as understandable as it is unbearable. Almost a month ago I reached out to him to seek solutions to the lack of timers for the collection; today I do it again. Some 200,000 workers are needed. What a paradox, almost four million unemployed in Spain and the countryside begging to find workers to collect. And they say they don't want to leave anyone behind. Then explain it in the Ebro Valley to the farmers of bone fruit of Aragon and those of Catalonia, who have to collect nectarines and peaches, to those of strawberry in Huelva, to those of cherry in Jerte, to those of vegetables in Alicante, Murcia and Almería, to those of garlic in Granada, Córdoba, Cuenca and Albacete, to those of asparagus in Tudela and Guadalajara, to those of onions and potatoes in Castile, Andalusia and Valencia, to those of grapes in La Rioja, La Mancha, Galicia and Castile and León. I could go on. They are just examples of food that we will not have and that we will buy from other countries at the price of gold, because we are also the eighth world power in food export, and you solve it with something that for me is a smoke bomb, minister, in the form of a royal decree law. He has a lot of posture, but little support for labor. Have you read the opinion of the sector? I'm sure you've read them. They say that it is insufficient, that it does not help anything, that it does not contribute; it is restrictive and unrealistic. Are you all wrong again? Do you think an agrarian organization is going to set up a website to look for workers for pleasure? Well, no. No, Minister. Farmers and farmers are doing their homework; you're not so much. The rule passes the problems to the autonomous communities and farmers. What are we left with? Do we have seventeen models or a single command? It only comes until June 30 - you have said - when many campaigns end in November. It only allows people to be hired who live in that municipality or neighbouring municipalities. Have you spoken to the Autonomous Communities? Because Mr. Lamban has already decided that all Aragon is borderline. But the most worrying thing is that in order to obtain agricultural employment, this rule does not regulate or facilitate the hiring of unemployed persons, it only makes benefits or subsidies compatible with temporary contracts. Look, no. Agri-food employment is not just a supplement to subsidies, it is a job in itself and as worthy as the most. Do not forget that they are 10% of national GDP - something else - and that depopulation remains one of the great challenges of this country. There are solutions that are not in the norm and, therefore, we ask you to proceed as an urgent bill. We have collected them by talking to farmers, entrepreneurs, cooperatives and agricultural organisations. We ask you not to dismiss them because they are brought here by the People's Parliamentary Group. We are the voice of those who call for hiring and addressing this solution: applying the general rules and adjusting supply and demand for 200 000 of the 4 million unemployed who can work, movements between the south and the north - national green corridor - and taking advantage of school and tourist buses. Ultimately, if there is no capacity to guarantee national labour, think about immigrants, listen to the European Commission and authorize the international green corridor. If Romania, Poland and Hungary have been able to do so, surely Spain too. They come from there. The United Kingdom, Germany and France have already made progress in bringing them in. Spain what are you going to do? You know if they don't come this year, they won't come next year either. Gentlemen of the Government, you are not asking for money, you are being asked to authorize the necessary national and international movements, as other countries have done. They ask them to carry out the relevant health tests or to let them do so, so that they are not hindered. Allow them to do their job and provide solutions. Spain needs a government that solves problems and does not generate them. The Spaniards need a government that tells the truth, that public money is not spent on spreading lies, but on helping the productive sectors. Spain needs the single command to ensure safety material for the agri-food industry as well.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u286	Mrs. Marcos, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u287	Yes, President. If the European Union has authorised the movement of temporary workers and other countries are doing so safely, we must study it and facilitate it. Farmers, farmers and industry need a government that promotes rural employment, not rural propaganda. Today we bring you the proposals. They are not just ours, we have also assumed them, they are also from the sector. I'll give you back support. Gentlemen of the Government, you have up to 200,000 reasons not to wash your hands on this.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u288	Thank you, Mrs. Marcos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Leal Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u289	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to use my time to defend the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the validation of this Royal Decree-Law on Agricultural Employment. The agricultural sector usually has temporary workers who are used to alleviate the situation of labour shortages, with a particular impact on campaigns of greater activity and importance, such as the collection of certain seasonal products which are not susceptible to mechanisation. The restrictions on mobility established to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic affect the labour market and, as Minister Planas has said, make it extremely difficult to reach around 80 000 people, temporary workers who used to come from other countries to the areas where they are needed, more than half of them are needed in this very month of April; temporary workers for spring and summer work, particularly linked to classical agricultural work and the collection of bone fruit. Urgent and pressing was the need to take the necessary measures to avoid imminent harm to farmers in the face of the impossibility of collecting and selling their products, but it was also urgent to take these measures which, if not to avoid it, could endanger the necessary food supply that is being guaranteed in good conditions of quantity, quality and variety, even in spite of the serious health emergency; all this also without forgetting another important objective, to avoid the loss of the important external markets of fruits and vegetables covering Spanish products. With this royal decree, therefore, this Government is addressing a package of urgent measures; a package that seeks to meet the needs of farmers on the one hand, and to ensure food supply on the other. As Minister Planas pointed out at his meeting with the autonomous communities last 8 April, important conditions of flexibility are incorporated so that it can be applied in the environments of the different regions, in the different autonomys; local solutions to a problem of business need and of socio-laboral importance. He then called Minister Planas to the indispensable cooperation of autonomous communities, agricultural professional organizations and cooperatives, because it is quite true that, together with the employment services of the autonomous communities themselves and the state employment services, since the cooperation is the way in which we will have a positive response to the demands of employment in the agricultural sector. It is therefore a matter of favouring the necessary temporary recruitment, given the extraordinary moment at which we are and its temporary nature. These measures also meet another important social objective, the increase in disposable income at a time of special vulnerability without diminishing social protection. As Minister Planas said just a few minutes ago, this is an extraordinary measure for an extraordinary moment. Ladies and gentlemen, with this royal decree law, whose validation I defend on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and for which I request your support, four objectives are finally met: to maintain the income of the population, to maintain agricultural activity, to improve the working conditions of temporary workers and to ensure the provision of markets. I insist once again, they are extraordinary measures for an extraordinary moment. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we ask the House to validate a real decree that is useful and necessary, a practical and realistic solution for a time when the crops are waiting in the field and the fruits in the trees. That is the question: we must respond with useful measures to the complexity that has caused us an unplanned pandemic, with very painful human consequences and with collateral effects on our economy and also on our agriculture and livestock. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Group we believe that citizens are watching us with magnifying glass, observing our behaviour, our attitudes and the real will to reach solutions and agreements. If beyond our differences and our obvious ideological distance we are able to agree on solutions to trace the damage that the pandemic has done to our economy, our industry, our primary sector, we will be fulfilling our duty. If in spite of the obstacles and difficulties, if they abandon and empty that backpack full of lies, disqualifications and insults carried out by the so-called patriots, if we rise above the noise, then we will be fulfilling our duty. Ladies and gentlemen, let us fulfil our duty, because that will be the best way to honor the thousands of men and women farmers, farmers, transporters, workers in the entire food chain who are - yes, they are - fulfilling their duty generously and with surrender. At a moment transcendental to our history, they are giving the best of themselves to this country and its fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, let us rise to your level by promoting dialogue in order to put in place the necessary social and economic reconstruction that this country needs. It's time to hold your shoulder, as they hold it every day and every morning, as they hold it every night bringing to Madrid thousands of products to supply this community that is suffering so much with this pandemic. Let us raise our shoulders, ladies and gentlemen, for the common work of reaching agreements from unity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u290	Thank you very much, Mrs. Leal. We vote in two minutes. [[Pause]] ACTS RELATING TO THE STATES OF ALARM, EXCEPTION AND SITE. [[VOTING]] - No, no, no, - Application for authorisation of the state of alarm declared by the Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the state of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by the Royal Decrees 476/2020 of 27 March, and 487/2020 of 10 April. [[File number 091/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u291	Acts in relation to the states of alarm, exception and site. We vote, first, on the request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by Royal Decree 476/2020 of 27 March and 487/2020 of 10 April. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 50 plus 295 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 37 plus 232 telematics votes, 269; against, 11 plus 49 telematics votes, 60; abstentions, 2 plus 14 telematics votes, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u292	The extension of the state of alarm, which will be published in the State Official Gazette, is therefore authorised.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u293	Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 13/2020 of 7 April, adopting certain urgent measures in the field of agricultural employment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 50 plus 300 by telephone, 350; in favour, 37 plus 221 by telephone, 258; against, 1 by telephone; abstentions, 13 plus 78 by telephone, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u294	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on this request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 50 plus 300 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 29 plus 155 telematics votes, 184; against, 19 plus 141 telematics votes, 160; abstentions, 2 plus 4 telematics votes, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-22-CD200422.u295	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. I would like once again to thank all the workers in the House for their efforts and professionalism, which enable us to maintain parliamentary activity. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was eight thirty-five minutes of the night. [[*******page with picture **********]]
