ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u1	The meeting was resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u2	Mr. Sánchez, after fifty thousand dead and more than half a million infected people refused to recognize, the second wave of the coronavirus caught him on vacation, just as the first caught him calling for demonstrations. On July 5 he asked all the Spaniards to go out and enjoy it because, according to you, the pandemic was controlled, and you did, he went to sunbathe Lanzarote and Doñana, but the reality you were hiding is that the coronavirus continues to kill - yesterday, 78 people - and contagious - yesterday, 3,000 -. The truth he is trying to hide is that, despite his propaganda, he has left behind millions of people, for example, 1.5 million unemployed, who according to Eurostat put us at the head of Europe in job destruction, or the 130 000 companies that have been destroyed, or 96 out of every 100 self-employed who have not received a benefit, or 99% of the minimum income applicants who have not yet received it. He has abandoned families in the chaotic return to school, and the autonomies and their health care providers in the face of resurgence, despite the fact that the law mandates you as the sole authority in the face of pandemics. So can you answer why you said two months ago that you had defeated the coronavirus and if you are going to take some responsibility for lying massively to the Spaniards? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, Mr Casado, thanks to the effort not of the Government but of the whole of society, let us bend the curve, we kept the virus in the first most deadly wave that the Spanish society suffered. We did so in an exercise of unity and in an exercise of unprecedented co-governance in the democratic history of our country. Unity and co-governance is what will do again that we bend the curve of a wave, this second wave of the virus, which is obviously less lethal than the one we suffered in March and April. Over the last week I have proposed to the opposition unity: unity to banish from the partisan struggle the fight against a common enemy, which is the virus, unity also to tie the shoulder, to approve general state budgets that are necessary if we want to vehicle 140 billion euros from the Recovery Fund and unity also to renew the institutions in our country; unity, Your Honor, to renew the institutions in our country. That is what I proposed to you and what I have received has been a no, and not a no any, Mr. Married, an absolute no. I would like you to rectify that position, build bridges and stop blocking the necessary renewal of the constitutional institutions. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u5	Mr. White Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u6	Mr Sánchez, now that you apologize to Mr Iglesias when you scold him, do so also to the rest of the Spaniards and even to us. Stop attacking us, because we've been holding hands for six months. [[Rumors]] First for a state health pact when it is neither able nor able to appoint a committee of experts; then for an independent agency to manage the European funds when it says that they are linked to the budgets - and it is false -, that on top it has covenants with its partners in exchange for overthrowing the labor reform; for a plan of shock for employment by lowering taxes and waste, but it keeps this government of twenty-two ministers; also for a law against illegal occupation in so many municipalities to which it only offers to confiscate their savings; and an alliance against separatism, even though you promise to modify the crime of sedition and condemn yesterday the death of etarras. And yes, I offered to depoliticize the form of election of the General Council of the Judiciary and of the Attorney General's Office of the State; they rejected it yesterday, but preferred to hand it over to an imputed party that strikes against the king and against justice. [[Rumors]] That's not what the whatsapps filter, is it, Mr. Sanchez? You do not seek dialogue; you demand our unconditional surrender and not to rule better but to continue to do it wrong but with impunity, without opposition or alternative. Don't ask us to tie our shoulders to the cliff to save ourselves. When he wants to do something good for the Spaniards, he'll have us by his side. As long as he keeps hurting them, he'll have us in front of him. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u7	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Casado, I am very sorry that you, at such an unprecedented moment as the one that Spanish society is experiencing, do not hold your shoulder, that your party does not hold your shoulder, that you use the virus precisely in this partisan battle. We appeal to that unity to banish precisely the partisanship of a common enemy, of a common battle we have, which is against the virus. But what I see is that the People's Party has decided not to do anything about it, nor in the renewal of the institutions, nor to grab its shoulder to have new budgets after many extensions of a 2017 budget. It is not going to tie its shoulder, it is not going to help Spanish society; not this government, but the whole of society. You use arguments of all kinds. You come to say, for example - if I may the second vice president - that We can not be a party with which you can reach agreements because it is a party that proposes issues that are outside the Constitution. And look, that's true, but there's a difference between us and you and that we can comply with the Constitution. You don't comply with the Constitution. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Renew the institutions, ladies and gentlemen. They renew the institutions, abandon the blockade, tie their shoulders and help Spanish society. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED SANTIAGO ABASCAL CONDE, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK OF FOLLOWING THEIR IDEOLOGIC AGENDA TO THE TRUE NEEDS OF THE SPAIN? [[File number 180/00257]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u9	Question by Mr Santiago Abascal Conde, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u10	Mr Sánchez, does the Government intend to continue to put its ideological agenda before the true interests of the Spanish people of health, freedom, security and prosperity?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u11	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Abascal, I thought by now you would have saved Spain. Forty-two days have passed since he announced that he was going to table a motion of censure and has not yet presented it; I imagine he has been on vacation for these forty-two days. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u13	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u14	In any case, to answer your question, Your Honor, the ideological agenda of the Government of Spain is to defend public health, save lives and not leave anyone behind with the largest social shield that has been launched in the history of democracy in an unprecedented situation like that of Spanish society. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u15	Mr. Abascal Count.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u16	Don't worry, Mr Sánchez, you will continue to have control of the government you wanted to ban during the epidemic, you will have the motion of censure that we announce you will be presented in September - because I'm not lying like you - and what you won't have is our condolences for the death of one of your investiture accomplices after a life of terrorism, the voluntary death in one in a prison. That's what he won't have on our side. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, you have been dedicated in recent months, in addition to becoming the world champion in terms of the worst management of the epidemic, to breaking our sovereignty in pieces and giving it to your investiture accomplices; to confronting the Spaniards with old hatreds and ideological struggles; to ruin the middle classes and probably to condemn in an irreparable way the most disadvantaged Spaniards. There are 800 000 Spaniards subject to ERTE because the government of the ruin and the lie that you preside banned them from working, laminating their bars, their restaurants, their shops and their industries. You have sunk tourism, which was the jewel of the crown; you have threatened the people of the countryside from the ministries; you have condemned the automobile industry with the weather apocalypse; you have literally docked the same self-employed to those who prohibited working and billing and you have told the young people that there is no plan B for their future. And while the Spaniards endure economic ruin and face a new health threat and fear for our children, who return to school, you return from your vacation - you do, from your sultan vacation, not us - with your obsessions, full of them. Like that of its vice president, who wants to carry the constitutional monarchy; with that law of totalitarian memory announced by the vice president, in which they want to employ 15 million euros that the Spaniards need, to take away more freedoms, with the gender policies that confront us most, with massive immigration and filling Spain and our neighborhoods with insecurity and MENA, and with tables of dialogue to the taste of their accomplices coups of investiture, ladies and gentlemen, who already want to reduce the crime of sedition. [[protests]] [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u17	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u18	You are a catastrophe with legs for Spain. Mr Sánchez, presides over the worst government our country has had in eighty years, which has led to the greatest contraction in gross domestic product. The government... [[The second vice president of the government, Iglesias Turrión, makes negative signs]] Yes, Mr. Churches, in eighty years. The greater destruction of the economy, the greater destruction of GDP and the greater public debt and the greater territorial division.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u19	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[Applauds]] Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Abascal, in a lapse of your own what you have done has been to equate democratic governments with the government of the Franco dictatorship. Eighty years he said. I will tell you one thing, Mr Abascal, in this what you have come to say is that you miss out on some forms of governance in our country, fortunately overtaken. [[protests]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u21	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u22	I will tell you, Your Honor, that in any case I understand that logically you do not like the democratic memory law that this coalition government is going to propose, among other things, because we are actually going to ban and illegalize foundations that defend the Franco dictatorship, such as the Francisco Franco Foundation. [[Applauds]] I understand your concern, but after listening to you, Your Honor, what is obvious is that you only do theatre, you do not do politics, Your Honor. You pose each and every one of your measures according to the theatre; you want to polarize Spanish society, you want to sow hatred in Spanish society and I tell you that you are not going to achieve it. What they are achieving, unfortunately, is to drag the right centre of this country into ultra-right positions, but that has nothing to do with the coalition government... [[protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u23	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u24	... and yes with the lack of profile and political autonomy of the People's Party. I'll tell you one thing, Your Honor, your ideological agenda is reduced to three issues: chryspation, exclusion and hatred. You are trying to delegitimize this government and I remind you that this government - better said, the parties that we are in this government - have won five elections over the past year and you have lost them. [[applause]] Two general elections. You try to weaken the institutions, be it the unions, be it the autonomous meals, be it the municipalities. You reduce your patriotism to hatred and fear and, fortunately, Spanish society has long exceeded those parameters. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO RESOLVE THE UNEMPLOYMENTS IN ANNOUNCED ASSISTANCE DURING PANDEMIA? [[File number 180/00256]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u25	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. President. How does the government intend to resolve delays and breaches in the aid promised to people during the state of alarm?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rufián, with progressive and country budgets. I think it would be important, wouldn't it? It should be noted that in particular for Catalonia during these months what we have done has been that 679000 workers have benefited from the ERTE, of which there are now 165 000 workers in Catalonia 247 000 self-employed persons have received the extraordinary benefit as a result of the confinement that I remember did not exist before or at least in the size of today's dimension, 6505 households already receive the minimum living income, from which almost 9500 adults and 12,348 minors benefit, and Catalonia is the autonomous community where more companies have accessed the ICO line, a total of 102,214 enterprises and self-employed persons, which represent financing worth EUR 98,878 million. This is the answer that we have given, with all the mistakes that we have made and that we really want to solve, but it is the answer that we have given with the instruments that we had available, that is, the General Budgets of the State of the previous administration of the People's Party. Imagine what we could do with new General State Budgets. He invited his lordship and his group to reflect on this and to see if we can walk towards the adoption of new General State Budgets. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u29	Mr. Ruffian Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Look, Mr President, we will now talk about the future, about the General Budgets of the State, but let us talk about the present, its star measure, voted and applauded by all the decent and left-wing formations of this House. It was estimated that it was going to be for 850 000 families, there are about 2 million people, official figures, and today it has only reached 80 000 families, not even 10 %. We consider that you have bureaucratized hope, not my words but of anyone who is in a queue asking for this benefit. It's a bureaucratic yincan literally asking for this help. This is the present. Let's talk about the future: General State Budgets, right? With whom are they going to try or maintain this kind of aid? With Citizens? I am addressing the ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations. With Citizens? Don't you realize that this operation, that of reliving one of the right-wing parties, goes far beyond the General Budgets of the State? That the operation is that the PSOE can choose between you or Citizens in the next ten years? It's false that budgets don't match who they approve of. It's fake. It is not the same to approve them with the right than with a party that, although independentist, is left-wing. Some General State Budgets is to put music - numbers - to a political project. It is not the same with those who rule with Ayuso in Madrid or with VOX in Andalusia that with Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. I ask you, I ask you, to endure because, if you endure, we will endure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u31	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rufián, I'm not going to answer for Citizens. What I can assure you is that Citizens have already chosen. He chose the 26th of May. Look, the Socialist Party won in Madrid and governs the People's Party with the support of Citizens and the ultra-right. He won in Andalusia and ruled the People's Party with the support of Citizens and the ultra-right. He won in Murcia and ruled the People's Party with the support of Citizens and the ultra-right. He won in Castile and León and ruled the People's Party with the support of Citizens. I mean, citizens already chosen. Citizens clearly haven't come out of Columbus's picture. What I'm telling you is this, Your Honor. We of course want progressive country budgets, budgets that reach a sufficiently broad agreement in this House because, of course, Spanish society is demanding this from its political representatives. We are in an unprecedented, extraordinary situation, something that has not happened in the last hundred years of the history of humanity. I therefore believe that we must all make an effort to overcome ideological dialectics and to focus the debate on the elements that Spanish society deserves, which are clearly transformation, to drive 140 billion of the European Union and not leave anyone behind. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u33	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SEEN VICESIDENT FIRST, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES THE COORDINATION OF THE GOVERNMENT UNDERSTANDING? [[File number 180/00265]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u34	Question addressed to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u35	Thank you, President. Your Honor, as President Casado has well explained - without finding a clear answer from Mr Sánchez - the Spaniards are experiencing a terrible health and economic crisis in the face of the government's clamorous paralysis. We stand at the head of the deceased and infected with the coronavirus, also in the second wave, and we enter the tunnel of the worst social crisis in our history. And the Spaniards are worried about this, they take the dream away from the school, collect the ERTE and collect the minimum vital income to eat. In the face of this drama, what the Spanish needed was a solvent and well-coordinated government, and you have neither. Unfortunately, you look much more like version 2.0 of the Marx brothers' cabin, as Mr Felipe González told you. Your Honor, according to the BOE, you have the competence to coordinate ministers, do you think you are exercising it properly with the ministers present and with the absent? [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u36	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, I want to tell you in public what I have already sent you in private: luck in your new effort, which is an honor that your colleagues have chosen. Mrs Gamarra, I have the honour from this side, from the government's responsibilities of having seen four speakers from your parliamentary group, different people but always the same substance, iron fist in iron glove as well. This is not the time for that. And I will give you data to respect your question: three organic laws processed, nine ordinary, twenty-seven royal decrees, eighteen presidential conferences, a historic agreement in Europe that you boycotted, one hundred royal decrees. Do you think it's too little to coordinate? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u38	Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u39	Thank you very much for your words, Vice-President, but you have not answered my question; neither I nor the Spaniards, who are the important ones. Mrs. Calvo, can you answer if parents with quarantined children will receive paid leave? Yeah, no, does it depend? Who's in charge, Vice President Iglesias or Minister Montero? Will the self-employed be able to access these aids? Yeah, no, does it depend? Who's in charge, the absent Minister of Finance or the Minister of Employment? Will you raise your taxes? Who decides, Vice President Calviño or Minister Garzón? And who's in charge of minimum living income? Because, look at you, 900 000 Spaniards have requested it and just one in ten families are receiving it right now. You have already announced the reform of labour reform. Here we're not going to ask them who's in charge because we already know: We can and Bildu. Look, Your Honor, you make every case, every management, a fight; every matter, a war and every Council of Ministers, a campal battle. You are not even able to tell Mr. Iglesias that the monarchy is not touched. The question is very clear: how do you intend to govern the Spanish if you are unable to govern yourself? [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u40	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, less evil than you came to succeed Mrs Álvarez de Toledo as a moderate, less evil! , because if it doesn't get to be moderate, what would have happened here this morning. [[rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u42	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u43	All this that you report is part of something that you have not accepted for almost three years: a two-left coalition government of this country, legal and legitimate. You are on the same wave as Mr Abascal, on the wave where yesterday his spokesman in the Senate told us that you would not be a crutch of this government. But you're wrong, it's not from this government's crutch, it's from your country. The figures you give are given by your party partners, who have coalition governments. You have not adapted to the changes of Spanish society, to diversity, to the need to find us, to govern people from different parties together; you are staying behind. And you know why? Because from the motion of censure until now - Spanish Constitution - you have declared yourself in rebellion, in rebellion of reality, in rebellion of commitments to this country, in rebellion of your obligations to this country at a crucial time when you have disappeared. [[Rumors]] They are not the crutch of this government, but change the third and throw a hood to Spain, which would be very good for you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE EGEA GUARDOR, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: DOES THE SECOND Vice-President CONSIDER THAT HE HAS SOME RESPONSIBILITY IN THE FACT THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN IS THE ONE THAT MAY HAVE MANAGEMENT OF THE COVID PANDEMY IN EUROPE? [[File number 180/000266]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u44	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen of the Government, ETA is a terrorist band, not a music band, Mr Sánchez, that you have to see how you like to insult the PP but your partners have trouble describing them. [[Applauds]] Mr. Iglesias, I've seen little of you this summer, it turns out you were connected with the merger of Bankia and La Caixa and you haven't had time to appear much. We have 3.8 million Spaniards unemployed, 800 000 in an ERTE, 1 million autonomous on the loose rope. With you we have already officially rejoined the Champions: we are the only country with negative indicators advanced for two months; we are the number one country in youth unemployment; we are the first in infected. Mr. Iglesias, your advisors have charged this month, haven't they? Well, there are people at ERTE who don't. Your friend from the Swivel Doors paid this month, didn't he? Well, there are people in the minimum living income who haven't paid. Mr. Iglesias, what is the responsibility of the Government for Spain being the worst managed country in the pandemic? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u46	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. García Aegean, first of all a matter of form: I think we are understood to be regular when we speak with the mask on. If you don't mind, I'd ask you to vocalize a little more in your next speech, because it's been hard for me to understand a few things. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u48	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u49	I'm really telling you this with sincerity. I think I have understood the question, and it is whether I assume the responsibility of the Government. I tell you, I take full responsibility for the government. And I have a feeling about you. For you, the pandemic has been neither a health crisis, nor a social crisis, nor an economic crisis, but basically an opportunity to try to bring the government down. When your partner - which is also a split of your party - claims here, in the parliamentary seat, the governments of the dictatorship before this government and when you have not been able to demonstrate the slightest loyalty of the state, I believe it reveals the decadent and pathetic situation of the Spanish right, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u50	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u51	Mr. Iglesias, you have to come out more, that Spain is very diverse in accents and you have to learn to understand them all. [[Applauds]] Mr Iglesias, Spain adds in two weeks as many cases of coronavirus as Italy, Germany, France and the United Kingdom. You know why? Because an Italian who comes to Spain is not forced to take any tests, but a Spanish who goes to Italy is forced to take a test. I understand that you are not in this, that you are in your trouble and in your judicial scandals, that you are very busy, and that is why you want to put your hand in the judges with the help of Mr Sánchez, because today We can have the worst quarry but the best bench of Spanish politics. Therefore, when you govern the concerns of the Spaniards change: usually the Spaniards are concerned about where they go on vacation, and now the Spaniards are worried about whether when they come back on vacation their home is occupied. With that excellent vocalization and that bell voice, I should pick up Pablo Casado's extended hand, who has proposed in the House an anti-occupation law, the only hope of thousands of Spaniards so that when they return home there will be no one in their home. I understand you don't have this problem, but there are a lot of people who do. [[Laughter]] You came to be the Robin Hood of Spanish politics and ended up being the extra in the photo of IBEX. You and your Government are running out of time. Tic-tac, Mr. Iglesias. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u52	Mr Vice-President of the Government. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. García Aegean, I love your accent, but when you spoke very quickly it was hard for me to understand you. [[Rumors]] This time I think I've understood him well. Last night I listened to you, because I was watching The Intermediate. [[Rumors]] They were asking you about David Erguido of your party, and you were answering about me. It seemed to me - not only to me, but to a large part of the journalists in this country - of unprecedented defiance. I also reminded Mrs. Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo - who seems to have you punished on Youtube - who, when asked, apparently, by Rajoy, answered what about her dog. And my attention was drawn to the defachability that you have. What's the answer to that defachability? For you believe, Mr García Aegean, that the institutions of this country are yours. [[Protests.-Applause.]] That is why they created a mafia police structure to pursue their political opponents and try to cover up their corruption cases. That is why, because you believe that the institutions are yours, you intend to use the judiciary to attack the government and you are blocking its renewal in the most pathetic way. What is happening, Your Honor, is that this defachation no longer reveals its power, reveals its impotence and its decadence. You have many, many, many years left in the opposition. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u54	I beg your silence, please. - OF THE DEPUTY DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES THE EXCMA. SRA. Vice-President First and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory: Do we continue to maintain the Government that of this crisis 'we are getting stronger'? [[File number 180/00258]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u55	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u56	Thank you, Madam President. This question was addressed to Mrs Calvo. But I see that Mrs Calvo insists on her position of not answering the questions posed by the VOX Group, surely because VOX is uncomfortable for her: she knows that we are the only opposition group that never negotiates anything with you. Finally, the same goes for Mrs Calvo and Mrs Calviño, because both of them are responsible for everything that this government does. Everything this Government does will not be judged kindly by history and you will not remain in a good place. Therefore, Mrs Calviño, bearing in mind that, despite the adoption by the Government that you vice-chair the most stringent containment measures on the planet, the most drastic and restrictive, we have the worst economic data in the world, the greatest destruction of employment, the greatest destruction of the gross domestic product - yes, in August we have overcome Peru, it is a great consolation -; taking into account all these circumstances, you charge a marketing campaign, put in all the newspapers of Spain, saying that from this crisis we will come out stronger, a motto that presided over your councils of ministers until a few weeks ago. Is the government still thinking we're gonna get stronger out of this?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u57	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u58	Thank you very much, President. We are experiencing a tremendously complex moment, unprecedented at a global level from a health, economic and social point of view. I think it is a false dichotomy that poses the alternative between health and economics. I believe, Your Honor, honestly, that if we all act together, if we all help find solutions, instead of causing tension and confrontation, Spain has enough strengths and assets to get out of this very complicated situation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u59	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u60	Thank you. Indeed, there is no dichotomy, there is correlation. The worse you manage the economic crisis and the worse you manage the pandemic crisis, the worse it gets economically and healthily Spain forward. Look, we don't even come out stronger then or come out stronger now, because we are again at the head of the world, in this case in the second wave of contagion. And everybody on the street already knows. What happens is that you still haven't found out because you don't walk the street, you're getting further and further away from reality, and that's typical of a communist social government like yours. Spain is undoubtedly in the worst economic crisis in its history, beyond eighty years, and also with the largest number of people who have died in times of peace in our history and the largest number of unemployed we have ever known; hundreds of thousands of workers have been unemployed and 800,000 are in ERTE and do not know if they will end up in ERE in the coming months. Our partners and allies preventing Spain from being visited and while you are missing our industry, our primary sector and our tourism; of course, because you don't know it, because none of you have ever worked in either industry, tourism or the primary sector. You are an absolute stranger to the Spanish reality, and that is already beginning to feel on the street and that is why you are already winning a motion of censure even if you do not win here, because on the street you are winning. Look, minister, don't be fooled: as many as you give your friends at IBEX 35 with whom you and Mr.Iván Redondo are going to share 140 billion, the reality is that Spain can no longer be with you. And Spain will only come out stronger than this on the day that you, who have become strong in this government, leave the state. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u61	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u62	Thank you very much, President. Look, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, it is true that we are living in a very harsh situation: the fall in gross domestic product in the second quarter of this year has no precedent in times of peace. From the very beginning, the Government has set up a safety net to support businesses, workers and families, which, by the way, has been supported and validated by this House, which has been fundamental to avoiding an even worse situation. We know that there has been a turning point at the end of the hibernation period and that, therefore, economic recovery has started, and we also know that all those facing health and economics are posing a false dichotomy, since the economy cannot go well if we do not control the inevitable rebounds. And that's why our message to the whole population is so clear, so firm and permanent that we all have to be united to face our true enemy, who is nothing but the virus. Your Honor, I think it is clear that we have worked together since the beginning of the pandemic to implement all these measures, measures that, by the way, support not only part of society, but the whole of society, with very special attention to the most vulnerable. These are measures that are being effective to avoid a harsher situation, are measures that are helping us to reactivate, and we are already working towards economic recovery and dynamic economic growth in 2021. But what is clear, Your Honor, is that if we want to get out strong, what we need is to work in the same direction, to help each other: businesses, workers, citizens, political actors, social actors and all those responsible, public officials and you too. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA VALENTINA MARTINEZ RARO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS, EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION: HOW DOES THE MINISTER VALUE THE RESULT OF THE MANAGEMENT TO ASSIST WHAT SPANISH IS IT RECEIVED IN THE WORLD AS A SAFE DESTINATION? [[File number 180/00269]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u63	Question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation. Question by María Valentina Martínez Ferro, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u64	Thank you, President. Spain is a safe country, which has been able to take action on time and has learned the lesson. These are your words, Minister, on a trip to Brussels that I could not do today because I would have to keep quarantine, because that was in July. Today is 9 September and Spain is ending the worst tourist season in history, with a balance sheet of 165 countries imposing restrictions on travellers who want to come to Spain, and this means 100 billion euros in losses. Would you say those words again? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u65	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, yes, I would do it again. And I say to him: Moreover, it would be quite useful for us all to bow our shoulders in this same direction. The work of this Government has been fully aware of the circumstances and has been fully focused on ensuring a response that places Spain in the right place. And here we are seeing the fruits of this work; we are seeing it in Brussels, where the recommendations that will soon... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u67	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u68	... the European Commission will take steps in the direction in which it is pushing Spain, i.e. territorialisation of measures against COVID; i.e. gradualisation of information not only on a criterion, but on a multiplicity of criteria, and above all on the opening of safe corridors. Here is also the discussion that we have started with the United Kingdom, which is bearing fruit, to give solutions to those Spanish territories that most need tourism through safe corridors. Then, yes, Your Honor, I would repeat it again. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u69	Mrs. Martínez Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u70	Thank you, Madam President. I abstained in the first intervention to qualify the action of your ministry, giving it the opportunity that you yourself humbly acknowledged that either you had not made the appropriate efforts to improve the image of Spain abroad or that if you had done so you had not borne the desired fruits, but little intention of mine. I will tell you: Spain has not taken action in time - especially not in time - and the government has not learned any lessons, so we are seeing. In fact, you have confused the priorities. You have not believed that the priority is Spain, you have believed that the priority is the propaganda of the Government of Spain. Instead of having visited Gibraltar, Tunisia and Istanbul, he should have gone to London, Paris, Rome, Berlin to convince the countries that send us tourists that this is a safe country, that they had taken the measures they have not been able to implement. But, of course, in order to position Spain as a safe destination, it had to go with the truth of the data, and not with the lie of propaganda, and today, unfortunately for us, Spain counts less than ever in the world, because it counts for evil, it counts for infected, it counts for infected, it counts for stopped, it counts for rebounds. Spain counts victims, and it counts them badly. Minister, not a single country has lifted any restrictions on those affecting Spain. And not only that, but they've hardened them. That is why I ask you: What measures has your ministry undertaken? Which ones are you going to apply, when this is the map of the real situation? [[Show a map of Europe]] His political inaction has a price, the price of a sad summer that we will pay all winter. And that's also your responsibility. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u71	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, you have coined a new song, the summer song. This song says: The image of Spain is bad, the image of Spain is getting worse. And you repeat it in Congress, repeat it in the Senate and repeat it in Madrid, and you go to Brussels and repeat it. But that is not what the studies of those who study the image of Spain say. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u73	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u74	What says the study that the Elcano Institute will publish tomorrow - I give it the first chance - is that Spain and its image remain stable, despite the fact that this image fell in sting between 2011 and 2013. What the Global Soft Power Index that has just been published says is that the image of Spain remains stable among the twenty most influential countries in the world. What I ask you to do, Your Honor, is less singing and, please, more hoisting your shoulder. Thank you. [[Applauds.-Mr. Hispan Churches of Ussel pronounces words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u75	Mr. Hispan, I ask you to respect the control session, please. [[A Member of Parliament: It's about time!]] And you too. [[Laughter]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT LAURA BORRÀS CASTANYER, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW MUCH PUBLIC MONEY IS FOR THE ESTANCITY AND SAFETY OF HIS MAJESTY THE KING DON JUAN CARLOS IN UNITED ARAB EMIRATES? [[File number 180/00260]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u76	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Laura Borrás Castanyer, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u77	Thank you, President. Minister, the security of the former head of state is paid by the citizens and they have the right to know how difficult it is to protect the Emeritus King while he is campechically installed in the United Arab Emirates, harassed by Swiss justice. That is why I ask you: How much public money is spent on your stay and security?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u78	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs Borràs. I must say that the protection and security of the former head of state, King Juan Carlos, lacks a specific budget item and therefore there is no additional expenditure on the general budgets of the state. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u80	Mrs. Borràs Castanyer.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u81	Minister, we asked him for a figure, for specific information. It is a cost that should be quantifiable precisely and that, by transparency, citizens should be able to know, even more in times of COVID and with the social emergencies that we are suffering. What is incalculable is the price that the Spanish State is willing to pay from the point of view of democratic prestige in the international arena in order to protect a king who has already had to abdicate and who has now had to emigrate. That the former head of state flees, and also flees to what many call the place of crime - a dictatorship - is scandalous and is the worst international image for Spain. And I don't say that, says the vice president of his government, Pablo Iglesias. What is truly a scandal - another scandal - is that, as a government that is called progressive, formed by two parties that consider themselves Republicans, you do absolutely nothing. Well, yes, covering it up and contributing to the opacity, blocking up to four commissions of inquiry and so many other requests to appear. The Spanish Crown enjoys an unthinkable and unacceptable degree of legal protection in consolidated democracies. But here the slogan is to protect the Crown costs what it costs - never better said - and they do not realize that the price they are paying is the ruin of the Spanish reputation in the world. They're squandering it for their own merits and emeritus. They first taught the world how they used and rewarded police violence against peaceful citizens who wanted to exercise their right to vote in Catalonia and today show them how they use the Security Forces to protect a king from flight. Any head of State should be held accountable, but the sacrosanct Spanish Constitution proclaims that the king of Spain is inviolable, which translates into absolute impunity. And that for the Democrats is also an absolute shame, because of protecting the Crown so much they are unprotecting democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u82	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs Borràs. I'll be brief. I will not go into each of the accusations that you have focused on the Government, Parliament and the State Security Forces and Corpses. I will refer to today's parliamentary intervention and to your question, which I think is important and relevant in terms of its objective. I will try to follow two main criteria in my speech: responsibility and rigour. With regard to responsibility, you will understand that you do not give any information - as I have not given or will give - of any authority or security with which any authority of the State, whether central, autonomous or local, is endowed under any circumstances. Secondly, let me practice and practice a little rigour: in terms of the cost of security, I would like to mention again in those terms and with those criteria that there is no specific item allocated to the protection of the former head of State and neither is there any additional expenditure within what has already been approved in the current General State Budgets. Yours, Your Honor, is vain in trying to blur the entity, the reality and the power of Spanish democracy. When today we conclude this session of control of the Government - one of the most important elements of a democracy - Spain will continue to be seen outside as one of the highest quality democracies in the world, and not as a failed state, not as an imperfect democracy, as you claim, but as a perfect democracy, where all institutions, of course, are held accountable in parameters of legality. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GIRL GOROSPE ELEZCANO, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW DO YOU THINK TO SOLUTION [[EAJ-PNV]] THE COLAPSO SUFFERING CENTRES OF TRAFFIC EXAMINATORS? [[File number 180/00255]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u84	Question by Mrs Josune Gorospe Elezcano, from the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u85	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Minister, our concern about the problem of the shortage of traffic examiners and the resulting consequences is leading us to resort to Basque insistentialism. We have expressed our concern in the Road Safety Committee, we have asked it in the Senate, we have asked it in writing, and today we ask it again: How do you intend to solve the problem of collapse in traffic examiners' centres?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u86	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. We share the concern to which you have referred, and we have already referred in the Senate to a question from the Basque Group. And in this regard, we are committed to strengthening and strengthening public services, strengthening, as you well know, the provision of examiner posts through selective processes of the common administrative body, in particular in the area of traffic, also transferring itinerant examiners to support and enable them to conduct examinations, and ultimately reinforcing all the necessary actions to fill the lack of examiners that we find when we arrive at the Government, especially in provinces, as you well know, such as Malaga or Guipúzcoa.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u88	Mrs. Gorospe.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u89	Thank you, President. Minister, generalities, when we need concrete; patches, when we need structural measures, because this is not a short-term problem, this is an old and structural problem that affects people's employment opportunities; because many people cannot submit to public job offers: from firefighters, police, guards, to some in which they ask for a driver's license because they cannot take the exam. Problems for all self-employed, self-schools, families who dare to invest their money in a context of unprecedented economic crisis and who see their investment at risk. It is a problem for the mobility of many people, especially those living in rural areas and having difficulty moving. It is a problem to be able to work, for example, as a transporter. Look, drivers are needed in the transport sector. Do you know what happens, for example, in Guipúzcoa? That to do a skill test it takes two months to wait. And if you're in bad luck and you're suspended, another two months of waiting to retake the skill test. At least four months to be able to do so, knowing that if you could access it more easily you would have a job opportunity. We cannot afford it, Minister, we cannot afford it; we cannot lose employment opportunities, economic recovery, we cannot follow this situation. We ask for our transfer, which since 2017 has been requested in Congress, and you have done nothing. But what it does have to do is to give a global solution; it is not worth measuring roaming patches, from one place to another. Either you give a global solution or the problem will persist, because this patching as if it were something temporary by the pandemic is not the solution to this problem. Assume it as it is and think it's not just a self-school problem. It is a problem of employment and economic reactivation, when there is no other way, no other way to be able to...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. Completely agree. But we're not doing it, we're not in general; we're working on the ground and we're helping. And I'll give you data. We've cleared exam calls outside of work hours. In July and August we have been working on twice as many reviews as last year, because of specific circumstances that we all know. For that reason, we have carried out transfers of traveling examiners. And the examiners are not created from today to tomorrow: it takes time, public competitions, exams, etc. We have made temporary responsibilities also to be able to solve these problems to which you refer the need for examiners and to delimit the waiting lists in the terms indicated and to guarantee mobility, to guarantee economic growth and, of course, to provide a public service essential to all citizens. And we have also called public competitions for the selection of examiners. But you're looking at a reality, you're looking at the reality of COVID, you're looking at the reality of how we've been limited in mobility for four and five months. However, I should like to thank the Directorate-General for Traffic and all its officials for the fact that, from the very beginning, from phase 2, the examinations have already been restarted. As I have told you, more than 177 000 circulation tests have been carried out this summer and in August, 30% more than in August last year, and we continue to work... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u92	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Mertxe AIZPURUA ARZALLUS, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO DO SO THAT DEATHS LIKE THAT OF IGOR GONZALEZ WILL NOT HAPPEN? [[File number 180/000270]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u93	Question by Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u94	Thank you, President. Igor González, forty-seven years old, from Bilbao, fifteen years in prison in Badajoz, Valdemoro and Soria, was ill and had tried to commit suicide on three occasions. He was serving three quarters of his sentence. With ordinary law I should have been on the street receiving treatment. Last Friday he died in his cell. It is the duty of the State to ensure the lives of persons deprived of their liberty. He didn't. This was an avoidable death, an avoidable death if the prison policy that is being implemented today was not an emergency policy, but legislation appropriate to the new time and respectful of human rights that assist all prisoners and prisoners, including Basque prisoners and prisoners. Minister, building peace and coexistence requires courage and commitment, new policies for new times. That is why I ask you: What will the government do to prevent preventable deaths like that of Igor González from happening again?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u95	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. Firstly, I should like to mention that we have a regulatory framework, such as the Data Protection Act, which will prevent me as Minister of the Interior from giving a lot of information about a person who has died and in the circumstances in which he has done so, without prejudice to the investigation of that event as it should be. But I will tell you that since 2005, and you know him well, we have in the prison administration a protocol for the prevention of suicides of inmates, which was reformulated in 2014 and is subject to continuous review in this regard. I will tell you that, as the President of the Government said yesterday in the Senate, in Spain the suicide rate is 5.96 per 10,000 inmates, less than 7.2% of all European Union countries. We are still under constant review, and this event will, of course, be analysed and evaluated to improve the prevention and treatment of suicides in prisons and to ensure, as required by section 3.4 of the General Prison Act, the life, physical integrity and health of inmates as a whole. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u97	Mrs. Aizpurua Arzallus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u98	Minister, what is happening is that the prison policy designed so many years ago remains in force and is an exception policy, which is what we must end now. When are they going to understand that the issue of prisoners must leave the terrain of the conflict in order to begin to be part of the solution? When are you going to understand? Ten years ago a new time was opened in our country, and during these years Basque society is making a huge effort to build peace, coexistence and a future in which the rights of all people are recognized. It is this society that calls on this Government to accompany the effort by changing prison policy. I would like you to listen to her, because they ask you to take such shared steps as to put an end to the alienation and to release seriously ill prisoners and older prisoners. My country is on its way to peace with the aim of closing wounds after so much suffering. I ask you to follow the same path from here, because experience shows that all peace and resolution processes require a solution to the issue of prisoners. I ask you to be part of the solutions and that revenge be a thing of the past, that prisoners and prisoners see their rights recognized so that...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u99	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. I have to say, first of all, that you are trying - I think, at least - to mix the death of an intern with a supposed policy of prison treatment towards a collective, but I will tell you that prison legislation and Spanish legislation in that sense are model. It is, of course, guided by individualized criteria of inmates, taking into account technical-legal criteria, and work is being done in these circumstances from Prison Institutions. As a result of the mimes, in these two years of individualized and non-collective treatment ninety prisoners of the terrorist organization ETA have been transferred, have been progressed to a degree and always with judicial control, as it should be, of course. Entering into the terms indicated, I must say that from Prisons we continue to work - and this is the important thing - not only in the individualized treatment, but - in what corresponds today to your main question - in the detection and prevention of possible suicidal behaviors. Our detection and prevention policy is effective, but we will carry out all the analyses... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: HOW IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO GUARANTEE A WIDE TO THE COLLEGE THAT GUARANTEES THE PRINCIPLES OF EQUALITY AND SAFETY DESERVING STUDENTS, PROFESSIONALS AND FAMILY? [[File number 180/00262]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u102	Question addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u103	Thank you, Madam President. After listening to Bildu and Mr. Sánchez yesterday in the Senate, I ask the government to show more empathy with the victims of ETA than with their executioners, who should embarrass them. [[Applauds]] We are the only ones who in this control session will ask the government about the concern that these days literally takes the dream away from the parents in this country, which is the return to school. Minister, do you believe that your Government is ensuring that the return to school takes place throughout Spain with clear and coordinated criteria?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u104	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u105	Absolutely, Mrs. Arrimadas, absolutely. Moreover, we have held up to twenty meetings with all the advisors. I think you have one that belongs precisely to your political strength, the councillor of Andalusia. Tell me with whom he has agreed all the educational measures his advisor in Andalusia more than with this ministry, with this minister. Who has your Andalucian counselor spoken to repeatedly over the course of these months. With whom he took and assumed, on 11 June, the fourteen points that are aimed at ordering all the educational activity his advisor of Andalusia. With whom he assumed the sanitary-health protocol on 22 June, which, in addition, is adjusted on 27 August for the consequences and the evolution of the pandemic in August. Mrs Arrimadas, we were concerned, first of all, about the health of all the people who make up the educational community, starting with the students and following by the teachers and all the teams who make up the entire structure of the educational institutions. But, in addition to health, which is a necessary but not sufficient condition to continue to address the education cycle, we have taken equal opportunities into account. And to guarantee equal opportunities we have worked - and we have worked hard - with the counsellors of the autonomous communities and we have all supported the same measures; measures that are aimed precisely at ensuring equal opportunities for those who have either an unfavorable socio-economic or socio-cultural origin or who are of immigrant origin or who have a disability or disability or are different in talent. For all of them we have developed fourteen measures, at the heart of which is the treatment of vulnerability, the treatment of equality, equity, equal opportunities, because this is precisely one of the elements supporting the quality of the education system. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u106	Mrs. Arrimadas García.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u107	The government was late in the pandemic, but what we see from the parents is that you haven't come back to school yet. We, on 13 April, already registered a proposal in Congress asking them to prepare for the return to the classroom, because you will not tell me, Minister, that neither could you know that the schools open in September. But you met on August 27th to define measures of return to school; measures that are summarized, basically, in this As you will understand, this leaves a lot of unknowns in the air. [[shows a document]] The main one to ensure equal opportunities, yes, what will happen to parents whose children have to stay home quarantined, even if they do not have a positive for COVID? We hear ads and contradictions from his government, and I say to him: don't improvise, this is very important for families and they are tired of seeing their improvisations. The second, where are the specific measures for special education, which you always forget, when you do not attack it? [[reshow the document]] And, for example - let's hope not; let's hope not! - do you have a plan B in case schools have to close again for weeks or months, or are we going to improvise again? You are expected to place responsibility on the autonomous communities, but I tell you that in all the autonomous communities, whoever rules, the families have total uncertainty. They do not derive their responsibility; you also have competences in education and well that you then use them in the middle of the pandemic to boost your umpteenth educational ideological counter-reform. I recognize you, Minister, that preparing to return to school in the middle of the pandemic is not easy. We all assume, the parents, that zero risk does not exist, but what is not tolerable is improvisation and absolute uncertainty. This should have been a priority for the Government, because we need a national strategy back to school and not seventeen, and you are the only ones responsible and have not done so. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u108	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u109	Mrs Arrimadas, I am sorry to say that you have a very unripe reflection on the functioning of the autonomous system. Very unripe. Are you accusing your Andalusian advisor of not providing for the measures? Because since June they had absolutely... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u110	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE SUPPORTED GIRL AGUSTIN ALODOBAR BARCELÓ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, which FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT'S ASSESSMENT OF THE SITUATION OF THE SPANISH TOURIST SECTOR? [[File number 180/00268]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u111	Question to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mr Agustín Almodóbar Barceló, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u112	Thank you, President. What is the Government's assessment of the situation in the Spanish tourism sector?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u113	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u114	Thank you very much, President. Thank you for your question. I am convinced, Your Honor, that we agree that the diagnosis of the impact of the pandemic on tourism has been negative, but I am not clear that we agree on the solutions. For the Government of Spain, the recovery of the tourism sector is an absolute priority and will agree with me that, in order to achieve this, it is essential to control the pandemic and offer health security to the population until we have a vaccine. Since the start of the pandemic, Your Honor, we have injected EUR 24.5 billion to support the tourism sector, deploying a safety net that has benefited businesses and workers. By way of example, ICO lines have benefited 114 000 companies and ERTEs have benefited, at the harshest moments of the pandemic, one million workers. These are just a few examples of this safety net that we have deployed to protect the tourism sector. But you will also agree with me that we have to continue to support the tourism sector and we certainly have an opportunity, Your Honor: to take advantage of the resources of the European Recovery Plan, which will be channelled, as you know, through the budgets. That is why I ask you, Your Honor, are you going to support or are you going to block budgets that will allow Spain to remain the most competitive country in the world in terms of tourism? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u115	Mr. Almodóbar Barceló.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u116	Minister, here you are to answer, not to ask me. That you do not have clear solutions we all have very clear. Madam Minister, in the face of the biggest crisis in the history of Spanish tourism you have been missing, you have taken it out of the way. As of the year goes, 40 million less tourists. Worst government at the worst time. The turnover of travel agencies has fallen by 95%, 40% of them will never open again; hotel reservations, 75%, and hotels that opened have closed or are closing again; tourism trade, 80% less billing; 40 000 hospitality businesses have already disappeared and the figure could rise to 85 000. By the way, Mrs Maroto, under the slogan 'Save the hospitality', the hotel organisations from all over Spain are now meeting in Madrid to ask for help and be heard from the government. [[shows a sign in which, on the drawing of a mask, the hashtag #savemoslahostelería is read]] You would do well if, after you leave this Chamber, you call them and answer them. We are talking, Mrs Maroto, about a fall in planned activity of almost EUR 100 billion or the loss of 300 000 jobs. Leaders in decline of GDP, leaders in destruction of employment. It is a shame that, while the sector, the workers or our destinations were making great efforts to try to recover the activity, you were missing. As more than 160 countries imposed and continued to impose restrictions on travel to Spain, you were on vacation. You, who among all the members of the government should be the most important minister for what you represent for the whole of Spain, let me tell you that you are still unpainted. He's already been left out of reconstruction. Minister, do you think the government is up to the task? Do you think they have given and are responding to the needs of the whole sector? The People's Party has offered them about sixty measures, they have not listened to any of them. Take advantage and clarify here today if you are really going to bet on tourism, if you are going to extend the ERTE until spring, if you are going to lower VAT to tourist activities. Tell the sector if they're going to do anything to really help them cope with the agony they're suffering. Its disastrous management and the statements of several ministers or of Dr. Simon encouraging countries not to let tourists come have put in the trigger to Spain as a tourist destination. Yes, the most competitive country in the world and the world's second largest tourist power, while competing countries in our environment have reaped the fruits of their disaster. His leadership in defending our main industry is non-existent. Mrs Maroto, if you are overtaken, if you are not listened to by the Council of Ministers or simply do not know how to do so or do not want to do so, it is best to step aside. You say Spain can. Of course you can, but with you in the government, no. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u117	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u118	Mr Almodóbar, in the face of a pandemic that is affecting the whole world, it is not the time to sow mistrust in our country, it is the time - we have told you - to work together and, of course, to support tourism. Look, I have met on many occasions with entrepreneurs and workers in the tourism sector and what you need least, Your Honor, is that you add more political friction to the current situation. That's why I'm not going into your provocation. We must work together to support tourism, with loyalty, with responsibility, with dialogue, as we are doing, with the social partners, by extending ERTE in special conditions for the tourism sector or by working at European level to open safe tourist corridors. If you really want to support tourism, do not let yourself be dragged away by the institutional blockade; sit down, dialogue, get to work as soon as possible to get some country budgets out. This is true patriotism: putting the general interest before the interests of your party. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, think for a moment. You are going to go into history because you are the party that voted against the state of alarm in the face of an unprecedented pandemic, but, in addition, you are going to go into history because you are the party that refuses to agree on budgets that will allow us to modernize our... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u119	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VICENT BETORET COLL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF DOING: WHAT PLANS IS THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN IN CONNECTION WITH THE AUTONOMY OF LOCAL ENTITIES? [[File number 180/000267]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u120	Question to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. Question by Mr Vicente Betoret Coll, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u121	Thank you, Madam President. What plans does the Government have with regard to the autonomy of local entities?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u122	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u123	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Batoret, the aim of this government is to restore the local autonomy that local authorities have lost as a result of the People's Party's government action. Now that you also want autonomy, I invite you to join the Government with the legislative amendments that we are going to make so that local authorities can regain that autonomy lost with you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u124	Mr. Betoret Coll.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u125	Madam Minister, your Government has interpreted the term autonomy as synonymous with abandonment and, if not, to ask the thousands of mayors whom you have abandoned in the midst of the pandemic, many of them from your group. They blocked EUR 700 million belonging to the VAT municipalities, they did not transfer a single euro in the full pandemic so that they could deal with the situation. They blocked and did not transfer because with one hand they suffocated the municipalities and left without paying the ERTE and the minimum vital income and with the other they created the most oversized government, which doubled the number of advisors and created general directions to place Mr Sánchez's friends. His Government had sold water at the price of wine, promised management and a social shield, and had squandered a country by turning public policies into a cruel weapon against the most vulnerable. And now, in an exercise of brazen boldness, they intend to expropriate the savings of the municipalities using a system similar to that of the scene of the tumult of the stampede interpreted by the great Tony Leblanc. As in comedy The cheaters, the scam requires two partners: Podemos and the PSOE. They both lie, they both cover up, they both aspire to deceive the Spaniards. You are the protagonists of a scary movie that might well be headlined Network of Lies. Lies like the committee of experts, the Oxford University report, the analysis of the Johns Hopkins, the CIS surveys, the'strongest exits', the country that denies thousands of dead Spaniards. The only coherence you show is that you lie to everyone equally, to citizens and to institutions. Some and others have been left at the stand, because, quoting the famous Minister of Finance: 'Chiqui, what are 12 billion euros? It's nothing, it gets out of here and it gets there.' Mrs Darias, Mr Sánchez, from humility, get out of here and go where you can no longer sink local entities, the Spanish and a whole country tired of lies, inefficiencies and improvisations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u126	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Betoret, I have listened to you carefully and, despite your intervention, that it has little to do with local entities and with local autonomy and has more to do with the retahíla to which you are accustomed, I always listen to you and I do not lose the hope that your party and you will come to your senses; that they will do so especially with local entities, because talking about local entities is talking about citizenship and that is what the Government of Spain has done and is doing with local entities, especially with the royal decree-law that it has approved in relation to the remnants of the municipalities, because what this Government has done through that instrument is to enable citizens to be returned the resources that you have taken away from the municipalities. [[rumors]] And I say right, yes, I say right. You will remember that it was you who forced the municipalities to put their remnants, their surpluses, in a bank safe, in a drawer, and the key they had thrown away. [[The Rumors Continue]] And you know what we've done now? Do you know what we've done now?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u128	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u129	We are now trying to find that key and a way for the municipalities to release those resources and reach the citizenry. In addition, we have set up another fund, because we are aware of the difficulties - as have the autonomy, to which we have given an extra 16 billion of the financing system - which the local authorities have - apart from the fact that we have arbitrated 300 million for the social fund, but that there is also a major hole in public transport - and that instrument which we have approved makes it possible up to 400 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what I am asking you to do is to support tomorrow the validation of this royal decree-law. True, we found a key as a way to return the funds that the municipalities had in a bank deposit and that also cost them money. If we do not agree on how - and I extend this invitation to all your ladies and gentlemen - let us look for how, but let us enable the agreement and that such a demanded key appears in whatever form, because I don't care what that key is called. What we want is for resources to reach the citizens and, therefore, the municipalities. That is the priority objective of the Government and I call on the whole House to do so and also on the People's Party, if it joins, because it is never too late if it is good. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED BORRAS MARY PABON, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY: WHAT USES THE MINISTRY OF EQUALITY? [[File number: 180/00259]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u130	Question addressed to the Minister for Equality. Question by Mrs Mireia Borrás Pabón, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u131	Thank you, President. Minister, what is the usefulness of the Ministry of Equality?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u132	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u133	Thank you, President. Your Honor, this ministry serves to ensure that all Spaniards, and particularly all women, especially at the most difficult times, know that those who think, as you say, that violence has no gender are simply outside the law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u134	Mrs. Borrás Pabon.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u135	Minister, unfortunately the number of successes of your ministry can be compared to the minutes of silence that you dedicate to the victims of foreign herds, which is zero. You know why? Because women's lives only matter to you when they can get their electoral returns out of them, because when the rapist or the assaulter is an illegal immigrant, women's lives do not matter much. [[Rumors]] Or, if not, can you explain to us today why the Commission of Inquiry was blocked from the children under guardianship who were sexually exploited in the Balearic Islands? Can you explain it to us? There are more dead women and more violence against women mainly because you are turning this country, Spain, into the law of the jungle. Of the twenty worst countries in the world to be born 16 women are in Africa. Are you able to understand what happens when you applaud, support and encourage massive, uncontrolled and unintegrated illegal immigration from these countries? For they are turning Spain into the same African hell for women, in a place where the fact of covering up with a burka calls it freedom, but the fact of working as the hostess of Formula 1 seems to them a symbol of heteropatriarchal slavery. You're a minister, for what? If you're not even able to agree with your partner Calvo, who unfortunately isn't here today. They are unable to agree on what a man and a woman is. Let's see if at least they're clear before March 8th, because if they're not going to have a good mess. You understand that spending EUR 600 000 on master's degrees in gender ideology or more than EUR 250 000 on feminist stickers does not reduce the number of deaths, does not reduce violence against women. The only thing that is reduced is public funds, which unfortunately we cannot allocate to other really important causes, such as improving the existence of those women who are threatened so that they never become ill-treated, or providing better resources to our State Security Forces and Bodies so that they can easily and more quickly arrest those aggressors, those rapists, whom we, unlike you, do want to keep in prison. Spain, this Spain that has taken to the brink of ruin, is not to waste any more resources. Please dissolve... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u136	Thank you very much, Mrs. Borrás. Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u137	Thank you very much, President. I do not know if you have ever wondered what your ideas and policies are for, your racism, your machismo against a lot of particularly vulnerable women, for example immigrant women, domestic workers, who are probably working in many of the houses of Members of Parliament that we are here today. [[Rumors and protests.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u138	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u139	I don't know if you've wondered what your policies, your proposals and your macho and racist ideas are for. Maybe so when a woman is raped, she thinks something has been done? So when a woman has to chain up care and part-time work she thinks she hasn't tried hard enough because, as you say, women who work hard end up in the Congress of Deputies, end up being chiefs or leaders, and yet those who don't work hard have to be soiling? Perhaps you have not wondered what your ideas are for, but your racist and sexist ideas condition the lives of so many women for evil, violate the fundamental principles and rights of our Constitution and human rights; your ideas are contrary to democracy, Your Honor, and complicate the lives of many women. So, you know what? Thanks to feminism and thanks to many women who, despite you, have put face and body and many times life for feminism, today you and I have the right to open a current account, the right to divorce, the right to safe abortion, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] Thanks to the feminist movement, many lives are saved.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u140	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u141	Thanks to the Ministry of Equality, thanks to this government it has been possible to declare 016 essential against what you voted for. You voted against the fact that there could be aid for these women in the middle of the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, feminism helps to live. His racist and sexist ideas are, as I said before, out of the law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u142	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to the Minister of Education and Vocational Training regarding the desire and inability of the Government to ensure a safe return to the classrooms on an equal basis, throughout the Spanish territory. For your defence, Mrs Moneo Diez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, throughout this week and in subsequent days the vast majority of the more than eight million Spanish pupils will return to their classrooms, six months after the terrible consequences caused by COVID-19 led to the closure of schools. [[Rumors]] A dramatic fact...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u144	Excuse me, Mrs. Moneo. I'm asking for a little silence, please, the control session continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u145	It said, ladies and gentlemen, that it is an exceptional dramatic fact - or at least we trust it to be so - but whose disastrous consequences, starting with the thousands of lost lives, have their continuity in the economic, social and, of course, educational fields. The education system remained completely out of line with the Government's decisions during the first months of the pandemic. Neither you, Minister, were part of what we could call a crisis cabinet, nor were specific measures taken in education, nor did you even appear in the Commission of this House for Social and Economic Reconstruction, as did other heads of ministerial departments. Moreover, when I asked you in April, Minister, what measures your Government had planned for students to return to school as soon as possible, you called me irresponsible. Today, months later, I say to you, Minister, that what happened during this time has shown that my personal responsibility and, of course, that of my parliamentary group is far above your government work. That is why, Minister, I rise to this rostrum today to ask you, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, to demand responsibilities, the responsibilities arising from your office, because you are minister of the Kingdom of Spain and the capacity and height of a government are not measured in good times, minister, but when the worst circumstances strike cruelly the pillars on which the civilization we know today is based. No, Minister, you haven't been up to it, and what's worse is that you haven't even tried. A person like you, who knows perfectly well the educational field, could not be alien to the perverse effects that the closure of schools would have on the students, starting precisely with those to which you like to refer, the most vulnerable. The OEI has concluded that the impact of the closure of schools in Spain could be up to 3% of the standard deviation. Unesco warned of the exponential increase in the risk of prolonging school closures, exacerbating inequalities. What is the immediate effect, Minister? The increase in school drop-out. Yesterday we knew the OECD report, Education Panorama, and what does it say? It notes that Spain is one of the countries that has taken the longest to resume the education system after the closure decreed by the state of alarm. In fact, of the forty-six countries analyzed by the organization, two thirds had resumed classes by the end of May, but Spain unfortunately belongs to the third that has not done so. Spanish students, especially those who are most vulnerable, will be the hardest hit by this health crisis because this government did not work, as was its obligation, to get them back to the classroom as soon as possible. Moreover, the only time that he decided to intervene, at the end of April, he did so in order to promote an order that left to the arbitrariness of the autonomous communities the regulations to pass the course, in contravention of the basic regulations contained in an organic law, breaking the principle of equal opportunities as set out in article 139 of the Spanish Constitution - I suppose he knows it, minister: All Spaniards have the same rights and obligations in any part of the Spanish territory - and causing with his actions that a student could obtain the title of ESO and baccalaureate with a different number of approved and suspended according to the autonomous community in which he resides. How curious, Minister, yes, here you have decided to have competences, but not to strengthen the Spanish educational system, but to contribute to its rupture. I remind you that this parliamentary group, which the People's Party, was forced to go to court and went to court and the appeal we are submitting is at the National Court and has been admitted to court. And so we come to this day, Minister, after a summer full of absences first and destitute afterwards. I do not know how many times I have been able to hear from you that you have no competence in education, the last one on 31 August when you appeared in this House. In addition, I must acknowledge that it has brought this principle to an end, because the only measure taken by the Government in connection with the return to the classroom is that contained in article 9 of the Decree of 9 June. And today is September, Minister. And what does that article say? That the autonomous communities must ensure a distance of 1.5 meters in the classes; it can, yes, it can, but leaves the planning of the school year in their hands. Moreover, even in the area of your management, where you have full competence in Ceuta and Melilla, you have transferred responsibility to the provincial directorates. In Ceuta and Melilla, minister, where, according to the words of the provincial director himself, you do not have the capacity to fix a leak or cover that is wrong, nor do you make replacements for administration and services staff; it may be years. Well, those provincial directors have been entrusted with the full competence to plan the return to the classroom. You transferred to them in July that obligation to plan the school year in accordance with general guidelines which, you see, is that the indications of the Ministry of Health have changed in ten days. In ten days two different versions! And it has done so without additional resources to date, without funding PCR tests for teachers, without testing the rest of the staff of the educational institutions and without having announced what provision of teachers they envisage for the reinforcement, all this, by the way, announced by the unions. Madam Minister, one thing is the delegation of powers and the other very different the discharge of duties, and you have done a permanent discharge of duties throughout the most important crisis that has endured all of Europe and our country since the Second World War. That's the reality. You hid behind the competition debate when your duty was to face the face. You are not a mere moderator and rapporteur of the measures taken by the autonomous communities, you had to have led a firm, strong and secure response so that the students could return to the classroom as soon as possible, in addition, in order to be able to exercise their right to education on an equal basis and with maximum security, because you know, like me, that the Spanish Government has competence in education, recognizes them in the Spanish Constitution in its Title VIII, recognizes it the successive doctrine of the Constitutional Court, the most recent judgment of the year 2016, minister, which clearly states that when there is competence of the constitutionally assigned State on a matter regarding basic legislation, the autonomous communities only have it on development. In other words, they do not have exclusive jurisdiction over the matter in which the State has constitutionally reserved the bases. And you have constitutionally reserved the basis for article 27, freedom of education and the right to education, and you should have guaranteed access to that right to education for all pupils in all autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] But the truth is, Your Honor, you've let the summer pass for the autonomous communities to do their job. To convene a joint sectoral conference between Education and Health on 27 August four days after the teachers return to the educational centres is, let me tell you, a mockery, no less, of course, that the Conference of Presidents announced on 29 July by its head, by Mr Sánchez, to prepare for the return to school. But it's just that the schools started on September 1st, Minister! What did your boss think he was planning? That is why their action has sparked a flood of criticism throughout the educational community: of the inspectors, who have said that it has been disappointing the lack of realism and commitment to education and the lack of leadership of the Ministry of Education - I read textually -. Of the parents, who have denounced the lack of coordination and leadership in decision-making and the development of protocols to facilitate safe incorporation into the classrooms valid throughout the national territory. Of the teachers' unions, which have pointed out: The Government has not wet itself in the important, that is how many students there must be in the groups of stable coexistence, those that its Secretary of State says are not the panacea. We are talking, by the way, about ratios, Minister, of ratios. Is it possible to say here that you have no competence either in relation to the ratios? Why, then, did the Law on Improvement of Conditions for the Performance of Teaching and Teaching in the Non-university Field move forward in 2019? Supposedly, to reverse the measures of the 2012 Decree in relation to ratios and school hours? I'm supposed to tell you because that decree had already been reversed. Was it just a political propaganda exercise or just now you don't want to set the ratios because this necessarily implies greater funding for the autonomous communities? Of course, Madam Minister, because the legislator and the payer, and the resources you allocate to the Autonomous Communities are clearly insufficient - insufficient - to take all the measures that the Autonomous Communities are taking unilaterally. It also has criticism of the Ombudsman, who has called for common guidelines, and even of his own Government. I am not going to make too much publicity to Mr Iglesias - I do not think his colleague deserves it - but it is that Mr Tiana, Secretary of State, acknowledged - I quote textually - that perhaps we should coordinate things more in order to make everything more similar. Minister, I'm done. The thousands of students who have started their classes these days have done so because the education administrations, the autonomous communities, have carried out the task that the Government should have done. And they have done so without receiving a single euro of the 1600 million earmarked for non-university education, the so-called COVID funds. You, who have been able to process an educational counter-reform in the midst of the pandemic, have been hiding. Yes, Minister, they have been hidden, unable to respond to, probably, the biggest crisis our educational system has suffered. That's the truth. Therefore, let me tell you that this government, with its actions - rather than its absence - has lost any legitimacy in responding to the real needs of education in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs Moneo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. The Minister for Education and Vocational Training has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u147	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. Mrs Moneo, I have it for a serious and genuine person who has let me down, as he also disappointed me in April when he asked for a reopening of schools during the state of alarm, which was a flagrant irresponsibility and I reiterate it. The speech of the People's Party has become a repertoire of falsehoods, half truths, complete lies and no surprises. Yesterday we held a session in the Senate and it was filled exactly with all this that I am commenting on. You do not have a constructive position, even at such an exceptional time as the one we are living in. All the countries in our environment, all the countries in the international arena are suffering a pandemic, but I do not know anyone who is having an opposition with such undemocratic and disloyal behaviour, very disloyal. The arguments that you have made here, Mrs Moneo, have mud feet, unless you really want to say that the counselor of a community that you preside over, Andalusia, has been slow, that you have not acted well, that you have been wrong in supporting the measures of the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, that you have not had the capacity of initiative - because you have not proposed any more - and that you are now being very slow in your development. You change words. You become fooled when you say that this ministry claims that it has no competence in education. This ministry has competences in education and exercises them in a wide and deep way. He has exercised the initiative, he has exercised cooperation and collaboration at all times and, of course, he has exercised another competence that you have never exercised, which is that of investment, to provide additional resources to the Autonomous Communities. Do you know what was the only community that didn't reopen the centers in May? Andalusia. Do you know who presides over it? Andalusia was the only community that did not reopen centers; all other autonomous communities reopened centers in May. This calculation is certainly not within what you have offered in the OECD. Do not settle for having opposed the state of alarm, boycotting the historic European agreement of 140 billion; do not settle for blocking the renewal of democratic institutions and other scandals that emerge at the conference. You are trying with your noise - with your noise - to exalt the moods of society to hide precisely your miseries, and that is not worth it neither the teachers, nor the management teams, nor the families, nor the students, nor of course the thousands of public servants who, with illusion and great dedication, have been working all summer. [[applause]] Because all this summer and all this time since March we have been working with the teams of the autonomous communities, absolutely with everyone since March. We have an educational system that has put more into evidence - although we already knew it, as when the tide finally withdraws and leaves the wreckage on the beach - the number of elements that need to be modernized. Therefore, we are dealing with profound changes and you know that we have a bill that is already presented in this House and that we need to discuss. We worked during the pandemic since March and took the lead in anticipating each and every one of the problems we knew we were going to face throughout the evolution of the pandemic. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, coordination, cooperation between the institutions and direct dialogue with the actors of the educational community has been the constant part of this whole process. That is why we have met, I have met personally with trade unions, with associations of parents, with school managers and with representatives of the concerted, private and cooperative organizations. We have held international meetings. We've had meetings with Ibero-America. We have had six sectoral conferences of Education full of content, Your Honor, full of content, and if any of the communities in which you govern had thought that something else was needed, I would have had the freedom to incorporate it. Therefore, all these initiatives proposed by the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training each day have been converted into agreements, with their communities as well, Your Honor, with their communities as well. We have held six sectoral conferences, seven general education commissions, six vocational training commissions and one staff commission. In total, twenty meetings with a very constructive atmosphere. It is clear that those who work on the ground and deal with reality, such as the advisers of the autonomous communities, know how to make agreements. You guys here only make speeches. At one of those 20 meetings, on 25 March, a few days after the state of alarm, we unanimously agreed to continue the school year. Italy didn't do it, Italy closed. We also agreed to do face-to-face testing of EBAU. Now it seems that everything is simple, but I can assure you, Your Honor, that at that time it was not, and we agreed that all the Autonomous Communities and the whole State as a whole, because the Autonomous Communities are State. And at the conference on 15 April, to which you have referred equivocally, we agreed to develop the third quarter and to carry out the final exams, and we agreed by a large majority, only some communities presided over by the People's Party distanced themselves, for what? To end up doing the same thing, exactly the same as the others, nothing that is not in the law, Mrs Moneo, because the law comes to say that it is really the evaluation board, which are the professionals, who have to agree whether a student is prepared or not to progress. On 14 May, what we agreed was precisely the dates of the EBAU and also an intensive use of distance education, with the first sanitary-hygienic guidelines for the re-entry and reopening of educational institutions in phase 2, an issue, as I say, that Andalusia did not do. But already in June - in June, Mrs Moneo - at the Sectoral Conference on 11 June, we agreed fourteen points, fourteen guidelines that set up a whole educational agreement to start the course and keep schools open. In these fourteen points, we talk about programmatic adaptations, the need to develop online education, the need to establish follow-up plans for the most vulnerable students, in order to guarantee precisely equal opportunities but on the principles of equity, on the principles that are valid because there are differences in terms of inequality by immigrant origin, by functional diversity. We agreed on all these principles on 11 June, and on 22 June we agreed on the sanitary-health protocol, one day after the end of the state of alarm. Therefore, on June 22, all the autonomous communities of this country had the stage, they had all the protocols ready to begin what their role was. What is the role of the Autonomous Communities, Your Honor? You know her, the function is to prepare the schools according to those protocols that we had all agreed, well, not everyone, because Madrid did not support it, I mean the education, did not support it. From that moment on, already in July - we continue with the autonomous communities - the autonomous communities began to draw up their protocols, all of them, some of their own. Andalusia did it in July, Asturias in July, Balearic Islands in July, Castile-La Mancha in July, Castile and Lion in July; tell me how they could have taken them out if we had not had the June framework agreement. This was their time because they had to organize schools according to sanitary-hygienic recommendations, with sanitary-hygienic measures. Therefore, they all took out their protocols, the last was, in fact, the Community of Madrid, which did so on 25 August, but did so two days before 27 August, then it is clear that it did not need the Joint Conference on Education and Health on 27 August to obtain its protocol, because that was its pace. But the important thing is that all autonomous communities today have their protocols published and announced. Now what is needed is that some, those who have gone later, fulfill them, and that is where we are. The most important thing, therefore, is that all the autonomous communities, all the educational administrations in this country have been online to prepare for the start of the course. Do you know when we had the last meeting with the Autonomous Communities? On 30 July, and on 5 August, we were already preparing what was the COVID-19 Follow-up Commission and its impact on education; everything was therefore anticipated, prepared and resolved. And on 27 August the Joint Conference serves as an adjustment for precisely, as the countries of our environment do, as much as possible to the reality that was to be lived in September; there are a few health adjustments that were already implicit, which were already clearly addressed in the June protocol, Your Honor. Therefore, in addition to this initiative, this ongoing collaboration and cooperation, we have done one thing that you really did not do in the previous crisis, we have answered precisely with a solution that is in the antipodes of what you did. Your government received an educational expenditure, which is an investment in education, which was 4.4% of GDP in 2011 and you brought it to 3.89 % in 2018. Moreover, all its proposal, the one sent to Europe in its stability document, that 3,89 % item, was increased to 3,82 % in 2019, 3,75 % in 2020.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u148	Minister, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u149	It's a good thing you left the government because, if not, our investment in education would have disappeared. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u150	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. I give the floor to Mrs Moneo Diez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, minister, the truth is that that happens to me, that I also have it for a serious person. That is why I am very surprised at his answer, which comes only to reflect the discomfort of those who have been unable, unwilling, unable or unwilling to lead what the Ministry of Education should have led over the past few months. Yesterday I told him that we were familiar with the OECD's Panorama for Education report. By the way, take a look at it, because it talks about investment in education in Spain; the years 2017 and 2018. Do you know where the investment in education in Spain was at the time with a People's Party government? OECD average. That's the reality, Minister. But this report does not speak of the autonomous communities, it speaks of Spain, of the whole of Spain, of the indicators that affect the whole of our country. These indicators also refer to how the pandemic has been managed. I've told you here and you haven't been able to answer me. Here his Government settled down and did not think about the most vulnerable, about the need to open educational institutions, let the summer come. We told you, Minister, that it was necessary for July to be used for reinforcement measures, and you did not take the initiative. Yes, many sectoral conferences, many general committees, an agreement with fourteen points. Minister, what you do is recommend, the only thing that really says those fourteen points is that classes start in September and the agreement on invisibility. That's all it takes. The Autonomous Communities have been waiting for you to do your job, for the Government of the nation to do its job, but you have not. Therefore, in July all, or at least those of the People's Party, had indications. That's the truth. You speak of the Community of Madrid. What do you want me to say? Do you know how much the Community of Madrid is going to allocate specifically to adapting centres and coping with COVID and to taking another series of sanitary and teacher protection measures? 370 million. Do you know how much you've received from the government of the nation for those 370 million? I'm telling you, minister: zero. With this obsession you have with Madrid, I would ask you for a little more institutional loyalty and respect. By the way, how many scenarios does the protocol you have planned for Ceuta and Melilla contemplate? I'm telling you. Look, in Madrid four because, in fact, we are facing a pandemic that can vary and whose outcome can be unpredictable; and you know it, it is changing throughout the national territory. It can also vary in the territory in which you have exclusive competence. Do you know how many scenarios yours is contemplating? Zero, none, because they are recommendations, because you have not delegated powers to provincial directors, as I have told you; you have done so. A government where it has full competence had to be the mirror in which the rest of the autonomous communities are seen, and they have not. And you can come here to make the speech of the lack of agreement; you, you, who stood up from the pact for education after a year and a half of work without putting 5% of GDP on the table! Minister, what agreement are you talking to me about? If, as soon as they had occasion, they tried to block an educational reform of the People's Party endorsed by this House to use the pandemic era and introduce its counter-reform! Perhaps if they had devoted more time to planning the return to the classroom, the Ministry of Education could now be a reference for all the autonomous communities. Minister, you haven't done your job, that's the truth. What guidance have you given to protect teachers? Teachers have to be protected. It has had to be the Autonomous Communities that test serological and PCR; it is the Autonomous Communities that have had to give indications to the centres to adapt; it is the Autonomous Communities that have had to mark the ratios. The ratios, Minister, are the competence of the Government, it is provided for in the Organic Education Act, yours, which the Government of the Socialist Party made. What are you talking about? They have done absolutely nothing; they have recommended, they have indicated, but the only thing they have collected in a royal decree of enforced compliance is distance, if possible; if not, health protection measures. Madam Minister, I am not trying to make a catastrophic speech because I believe that families must be given a lot of peace, and I am also sure that the families that we bring our children these days to educational centres, to schools, we do so with peace, knowing that there have been responsible administrations that have filled the ineptitude and lack of initiative of this government. What we're asking you to do is take responsibility. You have competences and you have to exercise them. I do not think that the Ministry of Education has to close, as some voices that are heard there say. By the way, it is you who repeatedly in this House and outside it says that you can do nothing because you have no competence in education. [[The minister makes negative signs]] Minister, the Journal of Sessions is at your disposal. It exercises its responsibility and, at least, takes the measures that we have to deal with from now on: the protection of the faculty, the educational reinforcements...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u152	Mrs. Moneo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u153	I'm done, Madam President. Where is the report of that joint committee, Minister, to analyse the impact of online education? The one you said had affected only 12% of the students in the digital divide and that international agencies and foundations calibrate more than two million affected students. Where is that report so that we can take action? Worry about the urgency, and the urgency is not only to save this course, but to recover the entire gap of those students with the most problems, with the most difficulties, the most vulnerable who, due to their inaction, will be the great ones damaged by this pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u154	Thank you very much, Mrs Moneo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] Thank you very much. The Minister for Education and Vocational Training has the floor to conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u155	Madam Moneo, institutional loyalty is precisely what I ask you to put in this debate, institutional loyalty Because, look, you know perfectly well that this government is investing in education, which you have never done. [[Applauds]] You ate the seeds of your own crops for the future. You cut off in education nothing more than suspicion of the previous crisis. They did so as soon as they had competence to do so, and so - and experts say - the education system has suffered severe cuts in recent years, with an investment hole close to EUR 10 billion. You made a royal decree, on 14/2012, that all classrooms could have an additional 20%, that teachers could arrive to be replaced ten days later, and that teachers also had to increase their hours of direct teaching in order to forget to make another coordination within the educational center. Moreover, you also increased school segregation, because you know that the most disadvantaged students are precisely concentrated in public school. And you know what happened to you guys at the reconstruction table? They didn't want to accept this in any way. Therefore, you continue to be responsible for increasing segregation in the Spanish educational system. But you know what I'm saying? That we're going to take on quiet reforms. You do not want them, you want to continue to maintain the privileges in Spanish education, but we are going to address reforms in silence, and we are going to address them in this very place, and we are going to modernise the Spanish educational system to increase precisely their equity, that which deals with the migrant origin, the greatest vulnerability, people with a more disadvantaged socio-economic extraction, functional diversity, affective-sexual orientation; we are going to talk about all this. How can you tell me that we are leaving the table, the Commission or the presentation of the educational pact? Look, you've had a year and a half without any results, with more than eighty-three appearances worth working on, and your government hasn't addressed anything in seven years, and the result of that presentation was that you didn't address either one measure or one. How can you not leave that paper? [[Applauds]] But I'll tell you more. It is an institutional insult that you question whether or not the investment measures announced by the Government of Spain can reach the autonomous communities. Madrid is going to receive over 300 million euros for the COVID Fund, Mrs Moneo; and Madrid is going to receive not only that, it is going to receive significant funding for the Vocational Training Plan for 2020, and it is going to receive it, because there has been a 22% increase in scholarships. And you will receive it - because you confuse whether or not you intentionally know what a report with a plan is - because part of the Digital Education Plan, endowed with 260 million, will also go to the Madrid Community, as you put so much emphasis on this community. Have institutional loyalty, please. Stop getting drunk on what should come out clean for communication with families, as you say that you care so much about the suffering of families. If you care so much about the suffering of families, stop giving false news, please. Look, this government's investment in education, you never predicted it or imagined it. This Government is working with initiative and institutional loyalty to the autonomous system. We already know that you are still nostalgic of the order and command, but we live in another system, in a system in which the Spanish Government has to do some things, because it has some competences, and the autonomous communities have to do others. And so it has been understood by the councillors of the autonomous communities, who work on reality, not on fictitious discourses. So, ma'am, unfortunately we still have a pandemic. We're at a dramatic juncture, but we have to get through this. And the plans of this ministry, which I hope you will enter to share, go much further to fight segregation, to implement equity, so that education is felt and perceived not as public spending, but as an investment. For all that, ma'am, I invite you to come in and study what is the reform bill that is resident in this House. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to deal with it with you or despite you; we are going to deal with it because the Spanish education system requires urgent modernization, after seven years of People's Party government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u157	We then proceed to discuss the motions resulting from urgent questioning that were not raised at yesterday's sitting. I would remind you that the vote will take place at tomorrow's sitting. We continue with the motion for urgent questioning by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candamil, on the measures envisaged by the Government to resolve the industrial crisis in Galicia. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the amendment tabled, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u158	Thank you, Madam President. He said in June, with regard to the urgent inquiry that we presented at that time, that the industrial crisis in Galicia is not short-term nor is it a consequence of the health emergency generated by COVID-19, however much it worsens it. On the contrary, it is a deep and lasting crisis that stems from the political dependence of our country, Galicia, from the expoliation that we suffer, especially in the energy sector, and from misguided and harmful policies by action or omission of the Spanish and Galician Governments. He also pointed out that it is a crisis that, while experiencing a particular impact in the electro-intensive industry sector, affects different sectors within the already scarce industrial fabric of our country, and is resulting in companies closed or at risk of doing so and loss of economic activity and jobs. The last and most well-known episode in the Galician industrial crisis is the announced closure of the Alcoa aluminium plant in San Cibrao, now converted, thanks to the mobilization of workers and political and trade union pressure, into a negotiation process for the sale of the plant to Liberty House, which is still uncertain and has an expiry date, on September 28, exactly, in nineteen days. In any case, we have seen how the different Spanish governments and also the Gallego de Núñez Feijóo have witnessed in the last few years the various chapters of this desolating history, provoking with their inaction or permissiveness vis-à-vis the large groups of economic powers, especially in the energy sector, that an industrial crisis that goes from Ferroatlántica, on the coast of Morte, to the shipyards of Barreras and Vulcano in Vigo, passing through the thermal of As Pontes and Meirama, Isowat, and the former factory of Alcoa, Alu Ibérica, in A Coruña, and to which Alcoa's claim to close the aluminium plant of San Cibrao, in A Mariña lucense, was added in recent months. It is urgent for the Galician and Spanish governments to act to stop and reverse this crisis, promoting a re-industrialisation plan in Galicia adapted to the demands of the moment and the challenges of the ecological transition, guaranteeing development, social justice and well-being, but also responding urgently to the dramatic situations that this industrial crisis is causing, putting solutions on the table. As far as the electro-intensive industry is concerned, it is necessary to put in place solutions that will give stability to the sector and to the whole of our industry. That is why we are defending, first of all, a Galician electricity tariff that will reduce the cost of energy in our country, bearing in mind that Galicia is a surplus producer, which paid and pays the heavy social and environmental costs, but does not benefit from that status as a producer country. In addition, the Spanish Government must fulfil its repeatedly delayed commitment to adopt an electro-intensive consumer statute that really provides a solution for the sector, that is, to ensure a stable, predictable and affordable price. To this end, I would have to take on board the proposals we are advocating, acting on the transport toll, as I said, especially in the case of surplus production communities such as Galicia, with a 100 per cent bonus, and also with the 100 per cent increase in the subsidies for the charges already provided and, in addition, increasing CO2 compensation to the maximum permitted. In relation to thermals, it is necessary to make progress in the ecological transition and the decarbonization of the economy, with social justice, and to do so it is necessary to do what has not been done so far: to provide for investments and to establish economic replacement plans for the regions of Cerceda and As Pontes, in order to be able to conclude agreements for a just transition that really involve economic reactivation and the creation of jobs that will enable the dynamism of these two councils to recover, enabling a future for its inhabitants that does not lead to unemployment or emigration. As far as shipbuilding is concerned, it is necessary for Navantia to move towards comprehensive complex-industrial conversion, to diversify its activity, but to sustain it especially in civil shipbuilding, lifting the veto to open Navantia from the Ferrol ria to a sector that, with all the difficulties it is going through, has great potential and opens up expectations of a more stable and continuous activity, which is precisely what we need. But it is also urgent to take care of the situation of the naval sector in the Vigo area, seeking a stable and lasting solution for the shipyard Barreras and recovering the activity in the former facilities of Vulcano, starting by maintaining and extending, if necessary, the concession of public domain essential to enable the activity of this shipyard. In the case of Alcoa, the response of the Galician and Spanish administrations was, in our opinion, slow and lukewarm, until the massive popular mobilizations in A Mariña and the imminence of an outcome forced them to react. Today everyone is awaiting the outcome of the negotiation for the sale of the plant, and we are all looking forward to the successful conclusion of that negotiation process. But in any case, in order to avoid the economic and social catastrophe that this closure would have throughout the region, if that negotiation fails, the Spanish Government must be ready for public intervention for the nationalization of the factory, thus ensuring the jobs and economic future of A Mariña's main engine. As we have stressed on previous occasions, neither the Welsh regulatory framework nor that of the State nor that of the European Union prevent the nationalization of Alcoa; therefore, this solution only needs the political will of public administrations; a solution that would preserve employment and save an entire region. This is an alternative that must also be considered for the former Alcoa A Coruña - today Alu Ibérica - to ensure its future if private investors do not guarantee the continuity of the activity. We hope that the Government and all the political forces present in this House will join in the commitment to put all means in place to save the San Cibrao aluminium plant, including public intervention if necessary. This is what the BNG expects, but, above all, it is what the workers and workers and the entire population of A Mariña expect. Our amendment is simply aimed at bringing point 1 into line with Alcoa's current reality with that negotiation process, but maintaining the essential, which is the demand for public intervention if necessary. Thank you very much. Madam President, we ask that the motion be put to the vote on points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. In defence of the amendments made by your groups, Mr Gómez-Reino Varela intervenes first of all by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u160	Good morning. Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, it is necessary to recognise - and this House will recognise - that the industrial crisis in Galicia is coming from afar, that the causes are many, most well-known, but many invisibilised: the productive specialization promoted by the European Economic Community; the constant privatization of public enterprises that has taken place in the State since the 1980s; the lack of industrial policies of this kind in Galicia and in the State - we must remember that of the best industrial policy is not the one - and, why not say this, as far as my country is concerned, with Galicia, autonomous but also central governments that either did not understand the potential of our country in industrial matters or preferred to prioritise other territories or other economic models that are always more fragile, more dependent, less sovereign, rather than strengthening industrial policy in Galicia. In spite of everything - and thanks mainly to the mobilization of workers all these years, but also these months - the industrial, naval and technological life of Galicia continues to resist and it is time that in this context - in which throughout Europe we are talking about relocation, reindustrialisation - we gave an impetus to industrial activity in Galicia. Look at data in any case to contextualize: the governments of the People's Party between 2011 and 2018 made cuts in all the budget items directly devoted to industry, with a decrease of 32 % in Galicia, where - it is necessary to remember, Article 30 of the statute of autonomy - the Xunta has full competence in industrial matters, and where 26 800 jobs in the industrial field have been lost in recent years. On a case-by-case basis and speaking in addition to the motion, if we talk about the naval of Vigo - a pointer, competitive naval, indispensable not only to understand the region of Vigo, but Galicia as the fishing and naval power that it is -, what happens for example with Vulcan? What happens with Vulcano is that Mr López Veiga - appointed by the People's Party as president of the Port Authority of Vigo - has been blocking and dynamizing Vulcano's industrial project for speculative interests for years. What about Barreras, another shipyard that was public, by the way? Which was also privatized, which was sold to Pemex. [[The Lord]] Emilio Lozoya was the author of that operation with the People's Party. Emilio Lozoya, director of Pemex, who is now in prison, and the operation of Barreras and Pemex also put thousands of jobs at risk again in the ship of Vigo. And what about Alcoa, looking back - Alcoa, who was Inespal, who was privatized when it gave benefits -? That, by the way, the multinational received more than EUR 1 billion in public aid, which was never linked to the maintenance of jobs or to technological modernisation. And it has to be said, if Alcoa and Alu Ibérica are also open in A Coruña today is mainly for the mobilization of the workers, and in these months for the mobilization of the whole of the region of A Mariña lucense. In any case, it must be said loud and clear: do we need a fundamental strategic industry like Alcoa in A Mariña lucense? Of course, we need it, and of course, that the set of competent public administrations must do everything necessary to guarantee the jobs of a competitive company, despite the multinational that wanted to tear it apart. And it is also clear - if we talk about Alu Ibérica in A Coruña - that all the competent administrations, the Xunta and the Government of the State, have to monitor what is happening and guarantee not only the industrial future of the plant, but also the rights of the workers. These are some of the GNPs which our parliamentary group brought to the previous parliamentary term and which were also approved in this House: GNPs relating to the drawing up of the industrial plan for Navantia S.A., GNPs relating to the drawing up of the financial plan for Galician public shipyards, GNPs relating to the reform of the interruptibility system. They were approved when governing the People's Party and during the time that the People's Party ruled, what did that government do? Absolutely nothing. And what is the progressive government doing? To take steps, not all necessary and sufficient, but to take decisive steps, no doubt, despite the difficulties. And let us say this: the progressive coalition government has done more in recent months for industry and industry in Galicia than in the seven years of the People's Party governments. Finally, the health crisis has made clear the need to promote new economic and industrial policies that ensure that we have a strong productive sector, which supplies us with essential goods and services, whatever happens. We have before us an important ecological, climate and technological challenge. But we also have on the table the possibility of investments for reindustrialization, circular economy, digital transformation, investments also in ecological transition and climate challenge. We have a responsibility and a historic opportunity to bring to fruition the task of rebuilding and transforming our industry. And there Galicia - with Alcoa, with Alu Ibérica, with Barreras, with Vulcan and with so many other industries - cannot and should not stay behind. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u161	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u162	With the venom. This motion promoted by the BNG, which is part of the Plural Parliamentary Group, is a motion that is characterized by all the cans overcome by political science and history, belonging to the UPG party, which is part of the bloc, of which Mr Rego is Secretary General, speaker in this session and promoter of the motion. A party that postulates - according to its current statutes - the struggle and national liberation, affirms that Galicia is a people in a colonial situation, postulates the construction of a socialism that leads to a communist society in a planned economy. That is, the most rancid communism and the most failed by the experience of contemporary history since 1917. [[Applauds]] This party, the BNG, with these characteristics which cannot be presented in a political, historical and ultimately according to a criterion of civilization, signed on January 3rd last a pact of investiture with the Socialist Party and, thanks to its votes and those of others, governs Mr Sánchez. That pact is full of aberrations contrary to national unity, insults to Spanish history and language, true Galician language that - like all good Spaniards and as Juan Valera said - must be loved like all peninsular languages. What does this motion say? The motion is a set of derailed misconceptions, guided by ultra-ecologicalism and omits fundamental things. It begins by saying that Galicia's industrial situation has been aggravated by the health crisis. It is not true, the industrial situation in Galicia, impoverished, causes the situation before the health crisis. Today, 50% of the Galician industrial sector is supported by its textile sector, starring Inditex, which hates BNG so much and is an example of the prosperity of private initiative. And that desolating situation has been condoned by all the governments of Madrid, Zapatero and Rajoy, and that of the incumbent does nothing to remedy it. With regard to the first proposal, closure of thermal power plants such as that of Puentes de García Rodríguez or that of Meirama, this is nonsense, this is contrary to the interests of the Galician people. In the case of As Pontes, 2400 direct and indirect jobs depend on the activity of this plant. The 10,000 inhabitants of the village depend in their lives on the existence of this power station. The electro-intensive industry: another nonsense. In relation to Alcoa's plants - what was Alcoa, is no longer so at this time - what is said is that there could be a nationalizing purpose. But, well, let's see, if here the problem is the price of electricity, what are you saying? Whoever is the owner of the company, with that price that activity is not profitable. Here there is a terrible precedent in this kind of policy that is that of the Andalusian Board in 1994, when it nationalized the Linares plant, from which Suzuki wanted to get rid; it had to close in 2011 with all the extinct jobs and losses that exceeded 300 million euros. With regard to shipbuilding, you say that in Navantia what needs to be done is an integral industrial complex; well, it does not need anything. You seriously omit in your motion the problem of the lack of rail connection with the external ports of Coruña and Ferrol, built with funds from the European Union, declared by the Court of Auditors of the European Union unproductive by underutilisation to 95% of the quantities received from Europe. [[Applauds]] This is in connection, Mr Rego, with the fall in activity in the coal sector. The external port of Coruña and Ferrol have lost more than 12% of their activity due to this loss of coal activity in 2019. Significant silence his on this issue, again pushed by the madness of that sick ecology. Finally, the question of the total omission of the problem of the sea-industry, with the very dangerous article 18.4 of the law of climate change and ecological transition, still in process in this Chamber, which puts in danger, in short, 3000 jobs and 37 billion euros, annual turnover for this industry essential for Galicia. For this crazy ecological obsession; moreover, I must say that this precept goes against the interpretation that has been made of the possibility of extraordinary extensions of concessions with deadlines already expired; according to the previous law and the interpretation that was made of it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u163	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u164	I'm done. You of all this say nothing, your motion is foolish, it is simply an exhibition of the worst sense of a nationalist party that comes here to tell what you do not believe, in support of a government that does nothing for your region, simply to gift and continue to deceive your electorate. Nothing more. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u165	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Moralesja Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u166	President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. I am speaking on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to position us in this initiative. Mr Rego, I would like to say that, as you well know, the People's Party shares with you and your party everyone's concern for industry in Galicia, and not just the Galician industry, but also for industry throughout Spain. But today we are bringing amendments to your initiative in order to reach agreements. Alcoa San Cibrao. We have been saying for a long time from the People's Party that if Mr Sánchez's government did not deliver a stable and competitive electricity price, the continuity of the plant would be put at risk. President Núñez Feijóo told the Minister of Industry, she told the Minister of Ecological Transition, she told the President of the Government, Mr Sánchez, but they did not want to listen and, in the end, unfortunately, A Marinha's jobs are at stake, and we will see what will happen. Alu Iberiana. It was also announced by the Government that the sale of Alcoa A Coruña to Alú Ibérica was the definitive solution. From the People's Party we warned that it was not the solution, but a patch and so it was. Centrals of As Pontes and Cerceda. We agree, Mr Rego, that there is always a need to have less dependence on coal. However, while in Europe and in Germany the thermal power plants are inaugurated and are in force beyond 2038, here Mr Sánchez's government, in an abrupt way in Spain and Galicia, wants to close them, and moreover, it closes them without first seeking a solution for thousands of workers, and you, Mr Rego, applaud him. By the way, I just want to make one thing clear here: the truckers are also injured in this matter and are the great ones forgotten by Mr Sánchez's government and by you in this initiative. I don't know what it's worth to have a Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge if the only thing they do is close plants and empty regions. Electro-intensive status. The statute was a solution - in October 2018 the Minister of Ecological Transition spoke about it here - that Sánchez proposed before his first elections in A Coruña. In the campaign he promised he was ready. The first elections passed and nothing, the second elections passed and nothing. Several autonomous communities agreed with the works councils and the electro-intensive companies to make joint allegations, communities of different political signs, and they have not been answered by the Government either. You yourself were told by the minister in June as the cause of that inquiry that the statute would be at the end of the summer. Well, you see, the school year begins and the status is still out and as always - tictac, tictac, as you said - there is very little time left. From the People's Party we have always said that the Government should establish a stable and competitive electricity framework. Galician electric rate. Do you think that with the closure of the thermals of As Pontes and Meirama, even having a good wind energy in Galicia, we will continue to be surplus energy? You'll have to look at it. Navantia. Mr Rajoy approved some budgets - you were not, but I voted for them - where EUR 250 million was envisaged for F-110 frigates. It was the People's Party and it was Mr. Rajoy. We share that concern that you have, but I just want to say one thing: the Socialist Party has repeatedly deceived you and your party. You always support the president of the socialist government, but Mr Jorcera has already been deceived by Mr Zapatero and you and your party now also by the Socialist Party and Mr Sánchez. Her boss, Mrs Ponton, said the other day that they were going to reach out and that they wanted to reach agreements. The People's Party will put forward amendments for the sake of reaching its agreements, but you have to look at what government partners you have in the municipalities and even in some parliament because you are the ones who get caught repeatedly and fall back again, but the worst of all is that you get caught up in the Galicians. What's going on? That the common sentry we have the Galicians spoke very clearly at the polls in these last elections. I reply to Mr Gómez-Kingdom who brought here today a debate, from 14 to 0.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u167	Mrs. Moraleja, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u168	By the way, Mr Rego, I think you should also look at the amendments that the People's Party is proposing to you, because you have a lot of heart. Of course, the Galicians have again said for the fourth time loud and clear: yes, to the People's Party because it has done good management and yes, to Galicia. Think about it and think about it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs Marra Dominguez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u170	Good morning, good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. I want my first words in this rostrum to remind the victims, the sick and their families in this terrible pandemic. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u171	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u172	Mr Rego, we certainly share a common objective: that Spain and Galicia need a strong industrial sector; a dynamic, innovative, competitive sector, with a fair transition that allows us to recover the lost time after decades of abandonment of the governments of the People's Party, of abandonment of the Galician government of Mr Núñez Feijóo in Galicia. Because it seems that Mrs Moraleja forgets that just two years ago the People's Party was in the Ministry of Industry ruling and that the crisis is not new in the industrial sector, the crisis is not new Galicia. In 2013 Minister Soria already committed a solution for the electro-intensive industry, a solution they never materialized. Five years to present a solution that never came true. The PP was then ruling and maintained a regulatory framework that threatened to penalise Spain with millions of fines by the European authorities. It was precisely the efforts made by the present Government that prevented this tremendous crisis in the sector. The People's Government then dismantled the Ministry of Industry and lacked any glimpse of an industrial strategic plan. In Galicia, with Alcoa's serious problem, the president of the Xunta evaded his full powers in the field of industry. Recently, in fact, in the restructuring of his consultancy, the Council of Industry has eliminated, one more example - we are seeing it - of the abandonment of industrial policy by Mr Feijóo, who is having medium- and long-term consequences which now make us face inherited industrial crises that are not the cause of this government's inaction. On the contrary, the current Government, with a temporary framework lashed by successive electoral calls, has been developing a proactive industrial policy with a long-term vision to recover lost time and aligned with the 2030 Agenda Sustainable Development Goals, for the reactivation of our industry and also of industry in Galicia. In this respect, we are presenting our amendments, Mr Rego. We have adopted six very concrete, rigorous and achievable points, which also seek the involvement of the Galician Junta on the basis of competences that Mr Feijóo cannot and should not avoid and that it seems that for the gentlemen of the PP they mean nothing. In fact, they have put forward initiatives for the aid needed by the sector. To have introduced... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u173	Mrs. Marra, one second, please. Please, I beg and beg silence. There is a permanent murmur that makes the speaker's speech very uncomfortable, please. Excuse me. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u174	Thank you, Mr. President. I was saying that the initiatives put forward by the People's Group seem to come to be repeated in what they have not been doing during all these years of government, either in the Xunta or in the Government of Spain. They have now put forward initiatives to help the sector and say they want to help the sector. And I would say to you, having presented the aid when you were ruling, that the sector would have thanked you. [[Applauds]] For our part, we have tabled concrete amendments, concrete agreements, real and sincere commitments, as the Minister demonstrated a few weeks ago when she spoke of the reactivation of our industry, also of the Galician industry, within a great national agreement, a firm, powerful, stable and achievable Pact for Industry; a great pact also for the Galician industry, for which, ladies and gentlemen, we demand institutional loyalty and unity, as it should be a country's commitment in Galicia. The Reindus Plan, the CO2 compensation aid, the status of the electro-intensive consumer, in the final stage of processing, the recent plan to boost the automotive sector, fundamental in Galicia, R & D projects, support to the self-employed and entrepreneurs through Enisa, the aid to the shipbuilding industry with the contracts awarded to Navantia, the carbon border tax, the Guarantee Fund for Electro-intensive Entities are real elements for the sector and the reflection of the firm and determined commitment of the Government to the Galician industry and to the tractor sectors for the Spanish and Galician economy, such as that of the automotive, agro-industry, the electro-intensive industry or tourism, priority in the recent European reconstruction plan. In this we are working, as in the case of Alcoa, supporting the maintenance of the industrial capacities of the aluminum plant for what was created an industrial table for the future of the plant in collaboration with the autonomous community, the company itself and workers' representatives. With regard to the status of the electric intensive consumer, as the minister has already committed, it will be very soon, Mr Rego, very soon; but, yes, a statute that will reduce costs in the sector while respecting European energy aid rules. As for the shipbuilding industry in Vigo, there is something very important. With regard to Barreras, the agreement has been possible thanks to the Spanish Government and the deep financial involvement of Cesce, and not precisely to the Xunta de Galicia, whose absence has been total. The Xunta of Galicia and Mr. Feijóo have completely disentangled themselves from Barreras. In fact, today we have to celebrate the announcement of full activity of the shipyard and two new contracts thanks to the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] Therefore, our support is firm and decisive with the naval sector in Vigo. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. In order to be able to carry out all these actions and all these industrial recovery plans, budgets are essential for the deployment of all industrial policy instruments for the recovery and reconstruction of our country. In recent days, the Government is meeting with parliamentary groups to ensure that, with unity, understanding and dialogue, essential reconstruction budgets are agreed for the industrial sector and for the benefit of all citizens, especially at this time of economic and social difficulties and crisis caused by COVID.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u175	Mrs. Marra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u176	I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for responsibility and commitment - a commitment on the part of the Government that is firm - for a great pact for industry, a great pact also in Galicia, Mr Rego, for the joint task ahead of the reconstruction and recovery of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u177	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President. The concerns raised by Mr Rego Candamil on the industrial drift in Galicia are based on and parallel to the industrial crisis that other communities are experiencing, such as Asturias, and which has its epicenter in the ecological deserting transition that the Government has been developing for two years in the face of the complicit passiveness of a Ministry of Industry unable to take action to prevent the destruction of businesses and jobs. I repeat this, as many other times, from this rostrum: to this gradual ruin of our industry the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, whose head, Mrs. Teresa Ribera, seeks to devote herself, even before the Council of Ministers is constituted, as a flag of the most radical ecologicalism, promoting irresponsible measures that close companies and fulmine thousands of jobs without economic alternatives for the regions and sectors concerned. This critical situation was managed before the pandemic, but the coronavirus has highlighted the incompetence of the government and the two parties that make up it to defend the industry. It is enough to remember that in the Commission of Reconstruction set up in the Congress of Deputies, Minister Maroto did not participate, as if the sectors that are the competence of a ministry that represents 41% of the national GDP of the economy and employment in Spain were irrelevant. Once again, we have to ask who defends employment in this Government. Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been recalled this morning that the Government has for two years been awaiting the commitment to approve the Statute of the electric intensive consumer in order to correct the high costs that Spanish producers have to pay for the energy they consume and to undermine their competitiveness vis-à-vis the rest of European and global producers. In his motion, Mr Rego advocates a Galician electricity tariff, something that Forum disagrees with, because the energy problems of Spain cannot be solved by cutting territories, disparately plotting the country and influencing inequality, and in fact, it is to be hoped that our membership in the European Union will make Community approaches to something fundamental for the 21st century, such as energy policy. The representative of the BNG also proposes the nationalization of the Alcoa San Cibrao plant, which, in our view, would mean going back to the archaic methods of the disappeared National Institute of Industry and to the times of the autarchy. The maintenance of employment in metallurgy and iron and steel is achieved by a government that is taking on without delay and without pretexts the solution to the problems affecting the competitiveness and continuity of companies, called Alcoa, Alú Iberiana, Vauste, Vesuvius or Arcelor. Around these companies and many others there is a very important sub-contracted work bag vital to tens of thousands of families in our country. The motion also refers to the closures of power generation power plants, which, in the opinion of Forum, is an act of industrial euthanasia which condemns Spain to unemployment and the loss of energy sovereignty and which, moreover, contrasts with what they are doing in other countries, such as Germany, which is opening plants, as Mrs Moralesja has just pointed out. Here, in Spain, the government of Sánchez closes central and buys energy from Morocco. Here, under the false pretext of environmental demands, we destroy employment and encourage it in other countries, disguised the closures with empty words of the just transition, which neither generates economic alternatives nor fulfils the commitments signed with the reactivation as is the case with the basins after the closure of coal mining. By the way, I found the VOX spokesman's point very relevant when he pointed out the consequences of the coal closure for port transport. He concluded the motion with a call to the Government to implement a reindustrialization plan in Galicia. Moreover, I would say that in Spain what is really urgent is a state pact for industry: announced in mid-February by the Minister of Industry, after having truncated this pact in 2018, when after the motion of censure it was made disappear by the new government when the government of Mariano Rajoy had already proposed it. I conclude, Mr President, by pointing out that it is not a matter of urgency but of urgency to solve the major problems of industry in Galicia - very similar to those which Asturias also has - in order to solve and curb the industrial policy of Sánchez, which is doubly negative, because it destroys jobs and because it takes Spain away from the common objectives of the European Union, accentuating our divergence. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u179	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. Previously, I believe that no one at this stage will argue that Galician society or Basque society or any of the societies in our environment are democratically mature societies, they are societies that surely, when they vote, do so with a sense that has nothing to do with the scourge, with masochism or with aberration, since 19 to 0 and 21 to 1 are not elevated markers of a balloon party, they are the reality and the political distance between sovereignism and the independence of the left Galician or Basque with respect to the Spanish ultra-right. We will support this initiative for three reasons. The first, for a question of internationalist solidarity; the second, because we share some of the problems detailed in this motion, and the third, because we are betting on the same solutions. She said that we will support her for internationalist solidarity. In this very rostrum and on more than one occasion I have pointed this out and I will do it again here today, we have nothing against any people, we have much in favour of the workers of any people, because what unites us with them and with them is not belonging to the same nation, but belonging to the same class. That is why, out of internationalist solidarity, we will support any measures that benefit the working class, in this case Galician, as in any other place in the Spanish State, in Europe or in the world. He said we share the same problems. When the representative of the BNG spoke of Galician companies quietly one could do an exchange exercise and replace them with other names of Basque companies in difficulty or with threats of layoffs and closures. We could talk about Siemens Gamesa, Alestis, ITP or Aernnova, leading companies in the automotive and air sectors, which, however, are flogged and subjected to this new reality. You could also do an almost mimetic translation exercise and when he has talked about Vigo's Ria, we could remember Ezkerraldea. I want to make a point here. The People's Party has done a lot of bad things, I will not question them, but the People's Party is not responsible for everything that has happened in certain areas for forty years, because some people want - I don't know whether or not they want to - to forget that the Socialist Party also ruled the Spanish State for many years and that, for example, the reindustrialisation or industrial conversion of Ezkerraldea was carried out by Felipe González, not Aznar, who would not have done it better for sure, but certainly did it quite badly. As I said, we are also going to support this initiative because we are betting on the same proposals. We believe that the intervention of the State is necessary, we believe that what we are saying is not any nineteenth-century insanity or historical or political gap, because countries of our environment, countries with which the Spanish State probably still has some historical quarrel, seeing the names that adorn the doors, are betting on questions of intervention. France is doing it. France is supporting the involvement of companies. France has even managed to take one more step and there are companies that are directly headed by workers through works councils. However, here it seems that that is nineteenth, and yet here is where you give 22 billion euros to a bank, to Bankia, to rescue it, to intervene it, and then already, once healed, to put it back in private hands without recovering practically one euro from what has been invested. What we want is for public intervention by the State to be effective and solvent, not with banks. We also support it, as I said, because in the solutions Mr Rego has spoken of transforming the system, of pointing out that the situation we are experiencing is not only a situation arising from the pandemic, from the crisis of the COVID, but also related to a fundamental crisis, to a structural crisis, which is a crisis of capital. We also support it because he has spoken of shielding the rights of the working class, and we are in favour of shielding the rights of the working class, we are in favour of ending the exploitation of man by man. I don't know if that's very nineteenth or if that's very ahistorical, but what we do think is ahistorical, nineteenth and certainly despicable and disgusting is to continue betting on caudillist models and feudal vassal models that only exploit people for the benefit or economic interests of a few. I'm done. We believe in political proposals that make the economy a factor for human development, a central element in fair and redistributive policies. That is why we are going to support this initiative and that is why we are again saying - I finish as I said at the beginning - that left-wing sovereignty, independent left-wing sovereignty, Galician, Basque or Catalan, is strong and willing. It is strong, as I pointed out at the beginning, with the distance between the far right and our political positions in terms of power for the sovereignism and independence of the left, but it is also willing, since you use this metaphor a lot, to row, but to row so that no one remains behind, for those who go or historically have gone in third or fourth class can be once and for all the first class, the ruling class.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u181	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u182	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We have been talking in this country for decades about the imperative need to strengthen and reform our industry. We have done so and we have spoken about it by all parties in the form of plans, pacts or agreements. It has been proposed by the employer, by the CEO, by the business associations representing these sectors and even by the industrial trade unions, by virtually all trade unions. And as always, the old parties - and today we have seen it again - only propose it when they are in opposition; when they govern these proposals they pass into the drawer of oblivion, as always. Bipartisanism has made the patches, the kick to follow, to pass the hot potato a way to govern for too many years, ladies and gentlemen, years in which unfortunately there have only been agreements for the distributions of the General Council of the Judiciary, savings boxes and university degrees. Ladies and gentlemen, it's all right, it's no longer worth shooting like this. Again to repeat the obvious this morning, that industry is an essential element of the Spanish economy, which is an aggregate element of our country's social cohesion, which is vertebral, which is the main engine of external competitiveness, which is contributing to our deficit of our trade balance, which is the sector most sensitive to innovation, to R & D+i, which is the sector with the greatest indefinite recruitment, remuneration, permanence in the job, so far has not helped in anything. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this initiative requires real changes, reforms and political action, but it requires it in the fields of energy, infrastructure, transport, training, employment, R & D+i, internationalisation, national market unity and also European, industrial regulation, environment, financing and sustainability. Look at how many things we're talking about, everything we're talking about. This is what really requires a change for our industry, real policies that empower industry, which is the indispensable condition for generating high-quality economic growth and jobs, something that is essential to maintaining our welfare state. However, the reality is that investment in R & D+i is reduced, technology centres are closed, the labour market is deteriorating, we are not making any progress in vocational training, we are continuing to struggle with the essential educational reform, which in the end is the basis of any transformation as we are proposing, and you just want to make cultural guerrillas between the old parties. In this way we will only continue to deepen more and more every day in a total and absolute lack of coordination, resources, objectives and strategies between the central Government and the autonomous communities, and among them, in order to direct these scarce resources and to face industrial policies or initiatives around the Digital Agenda. Mr Rego, you have brought us today not an initiative that requires the Government to agree or strongly support a plan that has already been mentioned; you ask us for support to nationalise companies, more public intervention in private capital, a Galician electricity tariff, seventeen electricity tariffs in this state. There are many problems affecting the Galician industry, but, Mr Rego, they are the same which affect the Asturian industry, the cantabria, the lioness, the Andalusian, the Madridn; they are the same problems. Because, Mr Rego, it is not that these problems are the same, they are exactly the same, and the common problems cannot be solved with local or regional recipes. The main problem is the total disregard of the old parties for this sector so important for the future of the Spaniards, and this situation is not going to be solved or endangering the legal security of this country or promoting unequal treatment according to the territory. Mr. Rego, you've made a compendium of all possible dreams, not out of fashion but out of the century. Mr. Matutes, yes, past the century. You call for the nationalisation of companies, which will only contribute to doubt in investors. This, by the way, has already been seen in the field of renewables premiums; it is already known what the effect was. And more recently, in the combustion vehicles; there you have Nissan's shutdown. I believe that - and I am finishing, Mr President - you are putting new holes in the electricity system by virtue of the territory. We have already experienced this with the Basque Country, which received favourable treatment from the governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party at the expense of the rest of the consumers. I believe that industrial problems cannot be solved by creating new costs for all consumers, Mr Rego. We share the view that there should be an ambitious electro-intensive status, of course, but it cannot be at the expense of other industries. I'm done, President. In line with this idea, we believe that a common national strategy should be used to boost the assets of the country as a whole, to foster synergies in favour of economic growth, because the problems are solved with the contribution of all, Mr Rego, not just from one side. Please stop trying to solve every problem you encounter with more privileges that generate new grievances. Let us bet once for union and equality and you will see how well it will be for us; also for Galicia, Mr Rego. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u183	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rego Candaimil, do you accept your group's amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u184	No, we don't accept them.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u185	Okay. - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures the Government is going to take to ensure free, peaceful elections and no acts of violence and intimidation in the Basque and Galician countries. [[File number 173/000017]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u186	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures that the Government is going to take to ensure free, peaceful and non-violent elections in the Basque Country and Galicia. Mr Garriga Vaz de Concicao has the floor for the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the amendment tabled. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u187	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 24 June I called on the Minister of the Interior in this House and urged him to join the manifesto that presented VOX for free, peaceful and democratic elections. I asked him, as we did with the rest of the political parties, to commit himself to national harmony and freedom and to reject and condemn all forms of violence. And he did not; he kept silent and looked away, which makes him complicit and responsible for each and every one of the aggressions that have suffered followers, affiliates and representatives of national sovereignty. And in a way - isn't that right, Mr Marlaska? - how would I do that if it is your government, the government you are part of, which is promoting political violence? All of you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and the entire government, have endorsed Mr. Pablo Iglesias' political machinism. The only doubt that arises is whether they have made it theirs or are simply continuing the PSOE's historical relationship with political violence since its foundation. It would not be too much if this aspect were kept in mind by those who are always in the permanent search for the center as if the holy grail were to be dealt with and, of course, gentlemen of Citizens, always ready to help this 1 with the mantra of utility. [[Criminal Government]] Useful to whom, Mrs. Arrimadas? Are they useful to a government responsible for the death of more than 50,000 compatriots? Are you useful to a government that has established the infamous table of betrayal of the whole Spanish nation? You are being accomplices to a government that has made political violence its government action. [[Applauds]] And if anything unites, ladies and gentlemen, the PSOE, Podemos and the separatists is political violence; some giving coups d'état, like the PSOE - there is its history - and the separatists and, on the other hand, We can, encouraging them, calling for political persecution, justifying the murderers of ETA and denouncing those who do not think like them. Ladies and gentlemen, political violence is present in our country. We were the only political party that could not exercise its political activity with complete freedom in the recent regional elections in Galicia and the Basque Country. And believe me, I'm glad we were the only ones, but they should also wonder why; why are some yes and others not?, who are really uncomfortable and who aren't? I could even devote my entire intervention to enumerating one by one all the harassment and aggressions that we have suffered: 181 attacks of the evil self-called anti-fascist, 42 attacks on our headquarters, more than a hundred complaints of death threats, 92 complaints of harassment and aggression. Is this the model of cohabitation you want? The only model of coexistence that you tolerate is one in which no one views, expresses or questions your mantras progress. I can tell you that I know very well what I'm talking about. Recently, the violent and energetic hordes sent by the CUP prevented us from meeting with El Raval's neighbors. The gentlemen of the CUP - and I refer to them as gentlemen of parliamentary courtesy - a month ago issued a first warning and everything that happened afterwards knows all about Spain. I am warning you, gentlemen, that we are going to sue politicians and you are going to have to answer to justice for these facts. [[Applauds]] The penalties probably fall on the executioners and not on the intellectual authors, but I am convinced that when children, who play revolution, give orders, they will think twice. Mr. Marlaska, what will be next? What will be next? You are directly responsible for this spiral of violence and connivance with radicalism. This is what happens when you promote national hatred in the face of national agreement. Mr. Churches, you don't know what harassment is and - I really tell you - I wish you never know. You were crying for a few paints, you went to your media satellites to victimize yourself; that's right, without police attestation. You are truly a sinister being willing to do everything possible to cover up your shames. Recognize it, you have lost the street because the street has seen that you, along with Mr Sánchez, are responsible for death and ruin. Mr. Aegean, Mr. Sánchez will continue to rule as long as you continue to meet with Maduro's representatives, Zapatero or all those leaders of certain media satellites who give you voice. [[Applauds]] You are the true cover of Mr Sánchez, Mr Aegean; focus, focus and do not be mistaken as an adversary, which the Spaniards will thank you and Spain will come out stronger. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that this party - which I have the honour of representing as a national deputy for Barcelona - is not going to take a step backwards in defending the rights and freedoms of all Spaniards throughout the national territory. [[Applauds]] We are never going to admit the peace of the totalitarians and, above all and above all, we are not going to admit as normal that a Spaniard has to leave his country girl in order to enjoy the freedom that has been usurped by criminals brought to politicians. Ladies and gentlemen, move on to the acceptance phase with VOX, as our secretary-general, Macarena Olona, has rightly said. We are never going to give up defending what no one had before dared to defend from this rostrum. I end by conveying a message to the Socialist Party, to the Communists of Podemos and to the separatists: neither their harassment nor their violence will be able to stop this party nor to millions of Spaniards who are unwilling to renounce the best inheritance they have received from their parents and 1 Words withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. of his grandparents, who are a homeland. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u188	Mr Garriga, on the basis of Article 103.1, I urge you to withdraw the concept of criminal government. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Criminal government is the same as the corrupt police that said it...]] I'm asking you to remove it, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u189	I have merely described the facts of a negligent management that has led to the death of more than 50,000 compatriots, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u190	It shall be withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Let's keep going. In defence of the amendment made by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Uriarte Bengoechea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u191	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is undoubtedly one of the great democracies of the world, there is no doubt. However, despite the fact that our country is one of the great democracies of the world, it has not yet succeeded in ending the ongoing attacks on freedom in this country and, in particular, in some autonomous communities. The fact that this motion is the result of an inquiry conducted in June and referring to autonomous elections that have already taken place does not, unfortunately, mean that this motion has no interest and is not relevant, and is that the attacks on freedom continue to persist in Spain and that is why it is very important that this Congress, that this House assume the defense of freedom in all places in Spain. This very weekend, ladies and gentlemen, the mayor of Badalona, Xavier García Albiol, has denounced the threats to his 13-year-old daughter. In the last few days two Members of this House, Mr Garriga and Mrs De Meer, were attacked in Barcelona. But also this weekend a house of the people of the Socialist Party, in particular in Portugalete, in Vizcaya, has received threatening paintings. The Basque Socialist Party issued a statement in which it said - I read -: It is an intolerable aggression against the freedom and plurality of Basque society. We fully agree and, in fact, we are talking about that precisely in this motion. These are serious attacks that have taken place in recent days in the Basque Country and Catalonia, two communities particularly affected, together with Navarra, by these anti-democratic acts. Prior to and during the past autonomous elections in the Basque Country, several parties were victims of this violence. As you know, the Socialist Party candidate and also secretary general, Idoia Mendía, suffered an attack in her own home. Violent groups tried to prevent rallies and interventions by Carlos Iturgaiz, candidate of the Popular-Citizens Coalition. They also tried to prevent rallies from VOX candidates. In addition, several Batzokis were attacked; in particular, the PNV in early June denounced nothing more and nothing less than 35 attacks on 35 Batzokis and Bizkai Buru Batzar issued a statement in which he said: They are an aggression to freedom and democracy. Indeed, we also fully agree, and that is what we are discussing and talking about today. Such attacks on freedom are not limited to electoral processes or political parties. As you know - we know well - they affect all civil society and they are happening before, during or after the elections, and we also know that the perpetrators are always the same: violent radical independenceist groups. What does that mean? In the case of the Basque Country and Navarre, protera groups. And these violent radical groups persist in their attempt to limit the freedom of citizens and parties in our country. That is why I was surprised that Mr Grande-Marlaska - as a Basque and as a Minister of the Interior -, when he intervened in June in the question that gave rise to this motion, said that in the Basque Country it is possible to make politics with total normality. And I ask, total normality? And I add Catalonia and Navarre, not just the Basque Country, in relation to this issue. And I ask, but does anyone really believe that candidates from PP, PSOE, Citizens, VOX, can do politics with total normality in these communities? Does anyone really believe that candidates from PP, PSOE, VOX and Citizens can walk quietly through the streets of some municipalities in these autonomous communities, spreading propaganda, talking to citizens in peace? Does anyone really believe that citizens can approach the seats of these parties in complete peace? That is the problem, that no, that this normality, that tranquility has not been achieved, I insist, has not been achieved. That is why it is important that this House, all the parties that we really believe in democracy in this House, support the defence of freedom in all the electoral processes in Spain, before and after the electoral processes and especially in the autonomous communities most affected by the attacks on freedom. We know that in a very short time there will be elections in Catalonia, but, apart from those elections in Catalonia, we know that this is a global problem that affects Spain, our whole democracy, and this House can only be in the defence of freedom. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u192	Thank you very much. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor.]] Tell me.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u193	Mr President, I call on a point of order. I wanted the President to explain to us according to what criteria this presidency is allowed to speak this morning ERC about a corrupt monarchy, that this morning we can talk about VOX being out of the law, and that does not imply the need to delete it from the Journal of Sessions and yet the expression criminal government does.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u194	You know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that under Rule 32(2) of the Rules of Procedure the Presidency interprets the Rules of Procedure. [[Protests]] The interpretation of this Presidency is that, according to Article 103.1, the institutional decorum has been lacking. [[Protests. - Rumors.]] I have asked you to withdraw it and, by not withdrawing it, it has been removed from the Journal of Sessions. There's nothing more to say. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Let's keep going. Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived.-Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not talk about the situation in Catalonia because there are so many representatives here who know much better about the day-to-day life of that community, and I did not intend to do so about the Basque Autonomous Community because it is the same as with Catalonia; there are many people here who represent their interests and who know better about the day-to-day life. But I will do so in order to state that this morning the President of the Government himself was affronting or accusing the People's Party of not complying with the Constitution; and the other day the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, together with the Basque Nationalist Party, once again failed to comply with the Constitution in the inauguration of President Urkullu when they used Navarra's shields, which are declared unconstitutional for the Basque Government by the Constitutional Court itself. [[Applauds]] But we had to suffer once again that the Basque Parliament, the Basque Government, would once again like to appropriate the symbols proper to the Foral Community of Navarre. And what changes is that what once seemed wrong to the Socialist Party, now seems fantastic and there we had President Urkullu, humble before God, and President Chivite, humiliated before Urkullu. A shame for all the navarros who, once again, want to denigrate us with the symbols proper to the outlaw community, as established by the Constitutional Court itself, with the approval of the Socialist Party and always with the annexationist interest of the Basque Nationalist Party. [[Applauds]] Obviously, we cannot all exercise freedom and present ourselves in all places alike. That's obvious, but after forty years of murder, extortion, how is life going to be normal in many localities? And now I am talking about the Foral Community of Navarra, how is it possible that there are localities in Navarra where our political formation, Union of the Navarro People, is the most voted party and municipal lists cannot be presented? What's that all about? This is because day by day it is impossible to do political work in these places because there is still extortion, because there is still a lack of freedom, because there is still persecution of those who do not think like you and that is happening today; it is happening in the Foral Community of Navarre - in this case I will only talk about the Foral Community of Navarre - it is happening and therefore the results are adulterated. If you can't run for office, it'll probably be a mayor who doesn't have enough votes to be mayor, but like the others we can't run, he'll end up being mayor. That's a democratic anomaly. All this also seemed wrong to the Socialist Party. What happens now? For the first time in democracy we have a president of the Government of Spain who depends on those who are doing so; his presidency depends precisely on those who continue not to condemn terrorism, those who continue to attack freedom, those who continue to think that the prisoners of ETA are Basque prisoners. It happened yesterday with the president of the government and it had never happened: that to the president of the government of Spain the prisoners etarras look like Basque prisoners, that the terrorist organization ETA looks like a band, as if it were a band of Basque prisoners some bank robbers. No, that's a terrorist gang that's murdered, that's limited the freedom of Spain, and the prisoners are jailers who are there convicted of being jailers. [[Applauds]] Yesterday, therefore, the President of the Government of Spain again humiliated the victims of terrorism. [[Applauds]] I, as I said in your day, will not speak on behalf of all the victims, but I can say that the first time I spoke of mine, of the Union of the Navarro People, and that today I am empowered to speak on behalf of many more who have told me to speak on your behalf and that is why I say so. Yesterday the President of the Government of Spain humiliated the victims of terrorism in the Senate and I hope he will rectify it. [[Applauds]] Today Mr Marlaska - I have to say - I think he has rectified, but the President of the Government of Spain has not rectified. [[Applauds]] Therefore, freedom in the whole of limited Spain, freedom in many limited municipalities, being able to do politics as we wish, in no case. They will be able to make politics all the parties, any party, when we can all present ourselves in the municipalities that please us without anyone bothering us and that, nowadays, is not happening in Spain and will have to be said. I also want to say that some of us have been in politics for many years and that we are not going to receive lessons from anyone, from anyone. With regard to threats, we will not count our lives, but there it is; and of course we will never count our lives because having comrades killed by means, what we can count others remains in nothing. Freedom will have to be sought, and the Government will have to do something about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of various parliamentary groups, some of them on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u196	Thank you. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll speak briefly from the seat. I will not go into the substance of the matter as it seems to me to be an outdated initiative; the operative part has some statements on events that finally took place with complete normality; there were elections in the Basque Autonomous Community on 12 July and all the citizens who wanted to exercise their right to vote, regardless of the difficult circumstances of the pandemic, were able to do so. That is why we will not enter this compendium of unreality, propaganda and victimism. Now, this is no coincidence and, taking advantage of time, I will say this: this summer I have had the opportunity to read the book of Jason Stanley, professor at Yale University, in which he analyzes how fascism works, rather, the new fascism and its characteristics, which are concrete in - I will state how the chapters are because we have no time for more - propaganda, anti-intellectualism, unrealisticity, hierarchy, victimism, public order. [[shows the book]] I believe that here we have an example in the initiative presented today by the VOX Parliamentary Group of an exercise of unreality, victimism and propaganda. We will not play the game of the far right, neofascism and, in this case, neo-ranchism. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u198	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u199	Thank you, Mr. President. As a prologue, those who have suffered all the violence, different violence, will always condemn any violent attack on freedom of expression and political freedom. We've always done it, even when we were banned. The Francoists, those who publicly legitimize the Governments of the dictatorship and fascism, have a fate that is that of being always able to be because they can be when others were forbidden to be, because in the Francoist dictatorship only Francoist politicians could be and participate in politics, and also in democracy because in democracy everyone can participate, even those who banned us, prevented us and rebuked us for being democrats. I mean, when they're in charge, they're alone, and when they're not in charge, we're all in charge, including them. That's the big difference between each other. And that's how lucky you guys are, you always are, and it's because the Democrats think everyone should be. You come to us to talk about freedom, democracy and rights. Who are you? I would like to know where those who think like you and some of you were when there were no freedoms here, when here it was forbidden to be different and to defend democracy was a crime. You, who are direct heirs to those who prohibited being and thinking differently, come to us to protest for lack of freedom. But let's go to the content of the motion. First of all, you make the ridiculous politician by maintaining a motion that you wanted to deal with a kind of space-time jump worthy of any Christopher Nolan movie, to bring now a topic that has already passed but which arises as if it were going to happen in the future. You realize the senselessness and self-amend such synsorada - the Basques already know what is synsorada - with something even more amazing; guaranteeing free and peaceful elections in Catalonia. But what choices? When are they? Has Mr. Torra told you and the rest of us don't know? Because the elections in Catalonia are not called. Therefore, these time-space jumps that you are making have other goals and not those that you say in the motion. Look, stop mucking around with the same canteen. To begin with, regardless of other moral or political considerations, can you tell me what freedom has been violated, for example, in the Basque elections? Can you tell me what they couldn't defend? Can you tell me which institution or political authority prevented them from holding acts or participating in elections? You had all the impeccable security measures by the Department of Security of the Basque Government. They had seizers and interveners, like any other political group in the elections. What they didn't have, however, is the public or Basque people or militants applauding them in their actions. You'd have to see the pictures of exactly what power of attraction they had, but that's another topic. What they did is theaters to go on TV. What's more, I even think you would have loved to have had a grudge and still more upset, which is what you wanted. [[Rumors]] Unfortunately, unfortunately, some of them do nothing but feed their victimism and fall into the trap that you set up, there they are if they don't wake up. But know also that what will not be possible to avoid is the protest and the freedom to express clearly the opinion that we have of you; all you wanted to do was to entangle, to appear in specific peoples of Euskadi to speak precisely against Euskadi, against your institutions, against your culture and against your identity. That's what they've always wanted. And look at the paradox. They have a woman parliamentarian in a Parliament they don't believe in; they do, in a Parliament they attack and, if they were in their hands, they would make it disappear. That's the reality and not this thread that brings us here. What are you doing in front of the autonomic elections of an autonomy that you want to overthrow? I finish my speech. Yesterday Mrs Olona - I see she is coming now - quoted Blas de Lezo, eminent political authority. He said he was Basque and by Basque doubly Spanish. That's against the equality of all Spaniards, isn't it? Some just once and two more times? Can you tell me what legal, anthropological, cultural or scientific basis you have to affirm that question? Look, ma'am, don't make us carry the weight of being twice Spanish. I'm not once to be twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u200	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u201	Thank you, President. Any party that presents here an initiative that contributes to the freedom of the Spaniards will always have the support of Citizens. The lords of VOX have suffered harassment and coercion that we Citizens condemn. I would particularly like to refer today to Mr Garriga. He knows I'm saying it very sincerely. We're going to support you, but first I'm going to tell you a story. The 2000's began with Jordi Pujol as President of the Generalitat thanks to the support of the People's Party, which signed a pact, the Covenant of the Majestic, which gave the nationalists all the powers that allowed them to perpetrate all that they did afterwards. There were many of the founders of VOX - you too, Mr. Garriga - and they didn't raise their voice, they didn't say anything. Subsequently, the Socialist Party made a tripartite and gave the education competition to the Republican Left. Well, in 2006, tired of all this, of everyone commulging with the mantras of nationalism, Citizens were born and in their first act, the first, foundational, there were already coercion and harassment. From the first act until today, the militancy of my party has been persecuted. I would like to remind you that in 2007, Albert Rivera was sent a bullet in his picture, with a burst of blood falling through his face. Where were you in 2007? And I want to remind your parents, too, whose business is being attacked day after day. Rivera's work in breaking the mantras of nationalism has not yet been fully recognized, but I know the story will tell. Today, today - I do not need to go to the past - the councillors of Citizens are persecuted. A companion of mine broke his nose very recently, many have had to be escorted for years, have painted the doors of their homes, have threatened their relatives and, in their madness, have come to wipe with bleach the floor that treads Inés Arrimadas. Citizens also began speaking in Spanish in the Parliament of Catalonia, something nobody did. Today others will do it because it looks like something more normal. Citizens broke the frameworks of nationalism. The first to call Pujol corrupt were the members of Citizens, while others called him a statesman. Citizens have been paying a very high price for all this for fifteen years. The freedom, tranquillity and peace of the families, of the officials, of the interveners, of the empowered and of the militants of Citizens is the price that has been paid for all this that I say to you. You don't get an idea of what happened and the relatives of Inés Arrimadas and many of my colleagues in Catalonia pass! Well, do you know what the gentlemen of VOX have called these guys who've been playing the guy for almost 15 years? They call them traitors, stateless people and even accomplices of ETA on social media for voting yes to the extension of a state of alarm that you started voting. That's how you reward all this I've told you. We, on the other hand, will vote in favour of your motion. Do you see the difference? VOX calls for freedom for VOX, but the defense of freedom is a global cause. Freedom is not a natural state and must be defended. Don't ask for freedom for yourselves but then get involved with Podemos to pursue, for example, freedom of the press. You, from VOX, permanently attack newspapers such as El País, television stations such as La Sixth and journalists such as Ferreras or Àngels Barceló; just as the Lords of Podemos permanently point to El Mundo, Vallés, Inda or Alsina. No, stop with these attitudes the anti-liberals, the liberticides of Spain. For both families they are not free either. It's only marriage that you say and you can only take your children to the schools that we can say, you can't choose between public and concerted. We can and VOX permanently flood social networks with bubbles and conspiracy theories. If it's not the sewers, it's satanicmasonic funerals; if it's not the IBEX, with Podemos, it's Soros caressing a cat in a basement and destroying the world. You, when you end up with the truth with all these bubbles, you also spoil freedom. Fight for this freedom too. Gentlemen of VOX and Podemos, they also use the history of Spain against Spaniards. Is there anything more free than throwing the history of Spain against the Spaniards, against any of those who are here and against any of those who are outside of Congress? Gentlemen of VOX, call for freedom, but call for freedom for all. It is intolerable what We may call democratic syrup but when administered to them it is the worst crime in the history of democracy. Mr. Iglesias believes that his freedom is a tool to end mine, for example. In conclusion, we want a Spain where everyone has to. The flag of Spain is so great that it protects even those who do not believe in it. Don't make her smaller. In Citizens we want a Spain of free and equal. Without freedom, Spain is no longer Spain, it would be something else. I'm done, President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we both want a united Spain, but the price of unity cannot be freedom. A country is only complete if all its fellow citizens are included and recognized. As long as there's only one citizen deputy in this room, in those seats up there, the Spaniards won't have to choose between unity or freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u202	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u203	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you know very well that part of your political strategy is based on demagogic victimism, but in this case it did not work for you in the Galician elections nor will it work for you now. You went to our country to sow winds with your message of hatred, sexist, xenophobic, racist and ultra-Spanish, which denies our status as a people and attacks our language and our culture. That is why they cannot be surprised by the rejection of the vast majority - practically all - of Galicians and Galicians and that groups of young people and anti-fascists have mobilized democratically and legitimately to express this rejection. In any case, if anything affected the normal democratic functioning of the July Galician electoral process, it was of a very different nature. I am talking about the total control and manipulation of the public media by the People's Party and the government of Feijóo; a manipulation denounced by the workers of Defend a Galega for the last hundred and twenty weeks. There you came out winning, incorporated into all the information and debate spaces, despite not having in Galicia a single councillor and a single deputy. They didn't have it and they still don't have it. Galicia rejected his speech of hatred and ultra-Spanishism also in the ballot box. Here too we prove to be a dignified and differentiated people, conscious of being so, even if it is not yet expressed in a clear political way in its full dimension, that it will do so. But you see the result of the Galician elections: you, zero; BNG, 19 Members of Parliament, more than triple the representation we had and rising. And you know why? Because there are more and more Galicians and Galicians who know that to put an end to dependence and expoliation, to leave behind parafascist discourses like theirs or the anachronistic monarchy of corrupt Bourbons, to have freedom, equality and true democracy the only alternative is to conquer sovereignty and build the republic of Galicia. Thank you. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u204	Mr. Asarta, I ask you to moderate yourself, to calm down, please. We are in debate and we are going to let the speakers do it as their spokesman has done, calmly and listening to them. [[Mr Asarta Cuevas speaks words that are not perceived]] I call you to order, Mr. Asarta. [[Mr Asarta Cuevas speaks words that are not perceived]] I call you to order, Mr. Asarta. I ask you to calm down and moderate yourself. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Let's continue with the...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u205	I'm asking you for the floor for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u206	You don't have the floor, it's all cleared up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u207	I'm asking you for the floor for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u208	No, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u209	He said xenophobes, racists... and he wasn't able to call him to order. You're committing an irregularity if you don't give me the floor. He's committing an irregularity.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u210	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u211	He's committing an irregularity.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u212	You don't have the floor. I call the order for the first time, Your Honor. Have a good time, sit down and relax, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u213	You are an aparatchik and you are not worthy to sit on that presidency.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u214	Sit down, please. You have the floor, Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u215	Thank you very much, President. An ultra-right tilita wouldn't hurt them. Gentlemen of VOX, why are you wasting our time on something that's happened already? Elections are made, free, peaceful and democratic. The elected deputies, the governments in progress; VOX, zero in Galicia and one in the Basque Country, with 4000 votes; with the Valencian Electoral Law you would not have entered. So nothing happened; normality, normality. The citizens voted and put them in place. Go ahead with our absolute repudiation of any violent act, but the ladies and gentlemen of VOX come here to make the victims when they do not condemn the intimidation of a family with three children, whom they intimidate every day. The victims are made but on October 9 they have never condemned violent acts against Valencianists, never! [[Applauds]] Victims are made and hate children and minors...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u216	Mr. Baldoví, one second, please. Mr Robles, you have been interrupting each and every intervention from the rostrum. I ask you, please, to be moderated and reassured. Let us listen patiently, you have already had your intervention before, and I ask you to respect everyone who is intervening, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u217	Freedom only for one. Gentlemen of VOX, the victims are made, but twenty-seven years ago Guillem Aguló died at the hands of the far right like you and you have not yet condemned that vile murder! [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, it's disgusting, disgusting what you sow every day. I have just launched - as the spokesman for VOX has issued a message - a message to the fascist right: once and for all present your motion of censure, give yourself the relevant parliamentary hospice and do not waste any more time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u218	By Rule 71, Mr President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u219	You don't have the floor, Mrs. Olona. Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u220	Mr President, for Rule 72 in relation to Rule 71.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u221	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u222	But have you read the Rules?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u223	That you don't have the floor. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u224	We're going to make it short, aren't we? Two previews. The first for the People's Party. You talk about attacks on democracy and the truth is that I think the attack on book democracy is being published these days, your attack on democracy hiding evidence from the judges in the so-called Kitchen case. I think there is no more attack on democracy than that. We ask you once again to shut up a little bit. The second preliminary is Citizens. His representative, Guillermo Díaz, has said something like this: as long as there is only one citizen's deputy in this House... Blah, blah, blah. If they continue to align with the far right, they are on their way to being one in this House. [[Applauds]] Mr. Garriga, I understand you. I think this is the starting point for your election campaign; you will most likely be a VOX candidate for the Presidency of the Generalitat of Catalonia, and I understand the artifice. I will try to review in the most aseptic way possible some of the barbarities that you have said, that I am absolutely convinced that you do not believe them, and I am absolutely convinced that many of the things that you have said is simply because between one and the other elections, between elections in the Vascongadas, as you say - I understand that if Basquedi can be called Vascongadas, Madrid can be called Al Andalus and nothing happens at all, right?-, between elections in Basquedi and elections in Galicia you have taken this representation, this one. [[shows a finger of one hand]] That's where the creature cries. You have said something like that the PSOE has given a coup d'état and that there is history. What coup d'état has the PSOE given? Let's be a little strict, because maybe there are people who believe it, just like there are people who put their intervention and say: because they have done some kind of coup d'état. I think we need to be rigorous. You have said that we are violent, that we are political criminals and that this is a criminal government, and at the same time speaks of political violence towards others, that others exercise political violence towards you. And they call us criminals and criminal government. We're asking for a little rigour. You talk about condemning the attacks. We condemn absolutely all the attacks, we have done it from the minute zero to the end, be it with the political party, we condemn them all. And you've been talking about some incidents they had in the Raval neighborhood. I repeat, I condemn what happened to them, which, as far as I know, was simply that they were booed. [[Rumors]] But it's just that you called the Multicultural Steward Raval. [[Mr. Garriga Vaz de Concicao makes negative gestures]] If they call them that in my neighborhood, they don't like it anyway. I don't know about yours, but I don't like them calling them multicultural terns before they go. With the same roundness that we condemn each and every one of the attacks that can happen or be made against the parties, I ask you here today to condemn the fact that there are forty, fifty or sixty - I say clearly - abnormal every afternoon at the doors of a house with three small children in Galapagar saying abnormalities. I ask you to condemn him and I ask you to put yourself on the skin of those parents who are in that house. I feel a deep empathy for them and you can imagine why. I'm done. What you do is terribly dangerous. They are people of the system who go from anti-system; they are liberticids who speak of freedom; pure trumpism. Trump already did it and Bolsonaro does it. It's Steve Bannon's doctrine, which, by the way, is in jail for scamming racists; well scammed are, but he's in jail. And you exercise exactly this. Today I address the people who can get them to vote and who charge 500, 600 or 700 euros for breaking their backs on a play or for carrying a burger to another on a bike, they charge 500, 600 or 700 euros and believe that you are theirs. I'm telling you, no, if you charge that and you vote for VOX, it's like you're a mouse and you vote for a cat. They're not yours. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u225	Thank you very much. Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u226	Thank you, President. The gentlemen of VOX never disappoint. In the middle of the pandemic and in the middle of the debate on how this Congress is dealing with the economic and social consequences of COVID-19 for our country, you have decided that your first motion of the legislature is an expired motion that, instead of speaking about the country, speaks about yourself. The motion is expired, but as you give them the same thing, you have used the wild card of the call and have changed Euskadi for Catalonia. It's the same, they don't care about Euskadi, they don't care about Catalonia, what they want is to set a stage of confrontation and rift. For VOX the most serious problem that Spain has right now is that Spain is against VOX. You talk a lot about the cowardly right, but you're becoming the cheesy right. [[Applauds]] Instead of talking about education or health, they only come to this Congress to complain and present themselves as victims, victims of the rest of the parties and of this Parliament, victims of women, victims of migrants, victims of the progressive conspiracy, have even come to present themselves as victims of epidemiologists and their health recommendations. Now, when you are faced with the real victims, who are those of macho violence, it happens to you as happened to Mr Ortega Smith at the Madrid City Council, who was unable to stand their gaze. That's what happens to the ultra-right VOX. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, with this motion you are saying something very serious. Basically, they are questioning that there are free elections in Spain, which is the same as saying that Spain is not a democratic country. It seems to me a very dangerous statement, especially for someone who claims to be proud of his country. But the truth is, we're already getting to know them. You are the same anti-patriots who, when it comes to truth, oppose Spain's access to European funds; the same anti-patriots who intend to bury public health and education by ending the state of autonomy; the same anti-patriots who, instead of defending the Spaniards, defend the privileges of those who steal from us, as is happening day and day also with what we can already call the Bourbon case. And since you mention it so much in your motion, let us also talk about your concept of freedom. I quote a tweet from before yesterday of a Member of yours who said: They want you to forget that Francoism brought peace, stability and well-being to Spain and, at the end, freedom. That's from a VOX MEP. It must be the same concept of freedom that his deputy in the Basque Parliament seemed to be referring to when she said on her first day - and I also quote textually -: Our aim is to erase from the map to Bildu. Ladies and gentlemen, when freedom is only freedom for yours, it becomes a privilege and not the right of everyone. You are trying to normalize the undemocratic attitude of eliminating democratically chosen political forces by citizens. Because, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, if you are really concerned about harassment, set an example and start with your own ranks, start with Councilwoman Cristina Gómez and her squadrons who, instead of devoting their time to working for the neighbors and neighbors of their locality, have decided to spend the day harassing a vice president and a minister for merely representing political ideas different from their own. Perhaps if you spent less time looking at your navel and pursuing any ideology other than your own, you could spend a few hours talking about how we shield public health, how we deal with the economic crisis, or how we help people who are going through the worst. But I sincerely do not expect much from those who refuse to demand solidarity through the taxes of those who have the most, at the same time as they taint our neighbourhoods with terns. That's unworthy every time it comes out of a young man from VOX, and you do it constantly. [[Applauds]] It's over, President. This motion, sincerely, reminded me of the last time I went up to this rostrum to denounce the speech of the chrispation to which you have risen, because you have not been able to innovate in that. Last time I told Mr. Rivera. Today Albert Rivera is no longer here because the same strategy that you miscopy has led your party to have ten deputies in this Congress, and it is that the citizenry, Mrs Olona, knows very well what it does. When politics, Mrs Olona, does not serve to improve people's lives, but to wink, then politics serves no purpose. And this motion is a clear example of why VOX is useless. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u227	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Elorza González has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u228	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we just heard a few minutes ago what will be the advance of the next motion, in this case of censorship, of VOX. It has been said here that the PSOE has been promoting political violence since its foundation. It has been said here that this left-wing government is a criminal government that participates in a table of treason to the homeland. It has been said here by VOX that the Government uses political violence in its government action. It has been said here that we promote hatred in the face of concord. A lot more has been said. This is really what VOX means, with this speech of hatred and confrontation. VOX, the far right, is the greatest danger to democracy in Spain. The crazy motion by VOX and the amendments, which we are going to reject, allow us to reflect on the real dangers and challenges of democracy in Spain and on the need to strengthen the rule of law. A reflection that we must also extend to the manoeuvres of the extreme right and of his fellow travellers and of pacts that try to sabotage, today, any way to manage by the Government what interests citizens, to sabotage the functioning of the rule of law. The extreme right cannot speak here today with such frivolity of lack of freedom, peace or absence of free elections in Euskadi or Galicia. Free elections are already guaranteed. It is true that the degree of freedom and coexistence we have in Euskadi, Galicia - particularly in Euskadi - is sometimes accompanied by incidents that we must condemn and regret, but the free elections are certainly guaranteed because we are in a rule of law. The extreme right generates social alarm without a certain basis, manipulates reality to appear as a victim - it has been said - and, moreover, intends to give us lessons here of democracy and freedom. However, as the Minister of the Interior, Grand-Marlaska, had already responded in his day to VOX's inquiry, the socialists - in case there is any doubt - we condemn any attack, threat or exercise of violence and of attack on freedom against any person or political force. But at the same time, the Socialist Parliamentary Group denounces that the attitudes and speeches of the extreme right, and in part also of the People's Party, which do not respect the Constitution and attack democratic principles, are the real danger to the rule of law. Let's see. When the extreme right and the compounded right accuse the Government of criminal and illegitimate; when they block, in this case, the People's Party, the forced renewal of the constitutional and supervisory and control bodies, thus causing some misgovernment, delegitimization and wear and tear of the institutions; when in the face of a health, social and economic emergency they play a role in systematic confrontation, they are in breach of the Constitution and are attacking the values of democracy. Let us not forget that the greatness of democracy and the rule of law also protect and protect VOX in order to exercise its rights and freedoms. And so it has to be, even if some of its representatives encourage, as we have repeatedly heard, coup; threaten and insult people of the government; criminalize immigrants or deny macho violence. For this reason, the defence of democracy obliges us to denounce here, in Congress, the seat of popular sovereignty, the blockade of the People's Party to the renewal of seven key institutions for democracy in Spain: the Constitutional Court, the General Council of the Judiciary, the Court of Auditors, the Presidency of the Transparency Council, the Ombudsman, the Central Electoral Board or the Spanish Broadcasting Council. The reason for the blockade - failing to comply with articles 66, 54, 122 and 159 of the Spanish Constitution, as well as various laws - would, according to the spokesman of the PP, Pablo Casado, be the presence of Unidad Podemos in the Government. This is an aberrant justification; it is an excuse that it does not recognize the verdict of the ballot boxes and, therefore, the democratic legitimacy of the United Nations We can be part of a left-wing government with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. This cannot, under any circumstances, justify the blockade, the inability to renew these key institutions for democracy in Spain. Because politics, as the People's Party sees it today, is a punishment for all of Spain. The PP's strategy weakens democracy and the credibility of politicians; above all, people are sick of it, citizens are sick of it. Calling on the greatness of democracy, we ask you, gentlemen of the PP, to rectify - yes, to rectify - that they are not to be compared to VOX. Do it soon and do not be led by a nervous attack on the motion of censorship of VOX or on judicial investigations, today, on ugly matters of espionage and abuse of power. For many reasons, it is always essential to ensure the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, judges and prosecutors, independence and impartiality now more necessary than ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Garriga Vaz de Concicao, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-09-CD200909.u231	Accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, the suspension of this sitting will start the telematic vote until tomorrow with the resumption of the sitting. We shall therefore suspend the sitting until tomorrow. It was one and ten minutes in the afternoon.
