ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u1	The meeting was called to order. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Please take your seats, please. We begin with the agenda item on the communication of the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 6 October 2020 requesting the Congress of Deputies to assess that Spain is suffering from a pandemic, which is an extraordinary emergency for the purposes provided for in articles 135.4 of the Constitution and 11.3 of the Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. For your presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I compare before this House in order to give effect, as the President said, to the constitutional provision which in article 135.4 confers on the Congress of Deputies the assessment, by an absolute majority, of the circumstances which allow the deficit and public debt limits to be temporarily lowered. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, our Magna Charter outlines these assumptions to - I read textually - '... natural disasters, economic recession or extraordinary emergencies that escape the control of the State and that seriously damage the financial situation or the economic or social sustainability of the State...' - I close quotes. Therefore, in line with this mandate, article 11.3 of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability establishes, of course, a legal provision in the same terms. I know that your ladies and gentlemen are aware of the regulatory perimeter in which this debate is taking place, but I think it is appropriate to point this out from the outset so that everyone - I insist, everyone - is aware that we are fulfilling an important constitutional mandate set out precisely to respond to exceptional situations, such as those that are currently taking place in our country, in Europe and in the world, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u3	Excuse me, Minister. I beg a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u4	Thank you, President. It is therefore essential that we all take stock of the actual content of the debate before us today in relation to these premises which I have just enumerated. Some of the Members of the Group of the European People's Party have called into question the time to approve this suspension of the tax rules. It is very simple and the reasons are several. First, when the pandemic broke out, the absolute priority of all Governments was to strengthen health systems, to adopt a social protection network as never before in our country's history, and to provide resources to the autonomous communities. There are the 16 billion of the COVID Fund, where the stability objective was still in place but they did not prevent the State from addressing an unprecedented effort. Precisely the suspension of fiscal rules is now taking place, when it was time for a new path of stability to be adopted by the budget timetable itself. Having done so before would have changed nothing because, I insist, this Government has always prioritized the fight against the pandemic, providing resources as never before and of which, as you know, most of the recipients are the autonomous communities that provide the services that must be kept intact: health, education or social services. There remain, ladies and gentlemen, hard months and, therefore, now is the time to address it. I will give you another reason to do so, and it was just this September when the European Commission confirmed that the activation of the general safeguard clause of the Stability Pact would also be extended throughout 2021. A decision that I believe needs to be described as very relevant, as it allows for this temporary - temporary deviation from the stability objectives in order to cope with the severe economic recession caused by the pandemic. This is in line with the Council's recommendations on the National Reform Programme 2020 for Spain, which established for our country, as absolute priorities, the fight against the pandemic, the maintenance of the economy and the determined support for the subsequent recovery. That is why, in line with all this, the Council of Ministers decided on 6 October to suspend the agreement of 11 February this year establishing the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for all the administrations and each of their subsectors, both for this year and for the period 2021-2023. An agreement which had been endorsed by this House and the Senate on the respective dates, but which has become inapplicable as a result of the economic impact of the pandemic. It is therefore simply a matter of postponing debt and deficit targets until economic conditions permit, in line of course with the recommendations of the European Union and international bodies; a circumstance which, when it happens, will be the time to launch fiscal policies that lead us back to a path of stability, to rebalancing plans that aim to hold accounts in the medium term. Ladies and gentlemen, I deeply regret that some of your ladies and gentlemen, basically from the benches on the right, have come to say that the suspension of tax rules meant a feast of spending. To guarantee employment, resources to workers with companies in difficulty through force majeure ERTs, ladies and gentlemen, is it a holiday of spending? To approve an extraordinary benefit for the self-employed in this pandemic period, is it a holiday of spending? Transfer the greatest resources in history so that the autonomous communities do not have liquidity problems to deal with the pandemic, is it a party of spending? I will say this once again: the suspension of fiscal rules does not suspend fiscal responsibility, so this government - even now - has committed itself to reducing the public deficit for next year. But I will tell you more: we are convinced that the leaders of the autonomous communities, of the municipalities, will not stop acting responsibly for the fact that we have suspended the rules of spending. Or do you, ladies and gentlemen of the right, believe it? Do you think that if it is not for the corseting of fiscal rules, mayors, mayors or presidents of autonomous communities will start to make an uncontrollable expenditure, which is not justified? Of course, this executive thinks not, because governments are responsible. It is our obligation to deal with this situation, to use all the instruments - I insist, all - to curb this deterioration that our economy is suffering and to promote in parallel a recovery, which means temporarily - also inexorably - a rethink of these spending policies. The priority of any government - of course, of ours - must simply be to save lives, to cushion the enormous human suffering that is causing this pandemic situation. The Commission of the Government of Spain is that this objective is irrevocable and cannot and must not be opposed to the reactivation of the economy of the productive sectors; ultimately, the creation of wealth and employment. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a false debate. Without health, there is no possible economic recovery, because only the enormous fact of anxiety, of sham that causes human beings to see their lives and that of their relatives in danger is incompatible with any process of reconstruction. That is why the overall objective goes hand in hand both to strengthen and ensure the best provision of public health and care services and to redirect the corresponding economic decisions. It is our obligation to alleviate the huge cost of the pandemic in companies and workers and to help the activity regain its usual pulse and reach the pre-pandemic growth and stability levels as soon as possible. For this purpose it is with the only one that the Spanish Government has acted from the beginning and also - it is fair to say - the rest of the territorial administrations, autonomous communities and municipalities, with great responsibility and great effort. That is the case, ladies and gentlemen, because at the beginning of this year the Spanish economy was in a positive phase of growth, a phase that was already prolonged for a period of five years, and, although it was dragging imbalances, which we have often moved in this forum, the economic indicators were increasingly solid and encouraged to think that our economy was growing, cautiously but strongly, in the different spaces. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the pandemic has changed everything and this scenario has been distorted as a result of this health crisis of COVID-19, forcing this government, the whole of public administrations, to take measures to contain the effects of inequality and the economic effects that could bring about what it has demanded, as you well know, because it has been approved in this House, a major public expenditure, I would say the largest in history, the largest allocation of public resources to try to stabilize our country. And I reiterate that some of the concrete measures that serve as an example of the effort made have been voted by the vast majority of the groups present. For example, temporary employment regulation files, which have covered almost 3.5 million workers and 500 000 enterprises at the peak of the pandemic, or the extraordinary benefit of the self-employed, which has covered 1.5 million workers and has undoubtedly helped them to partially dampen the slowdown in their activity. More than EUR 103 billion in credit has been mobilised with public backing through more than 830 000 operations, of which, as you are well aware, around 98% belong to small and medium-sized enterprises and to self-employed people. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I was telling you that if, at last, this House appreciates that Spain fulfils the conditions necessary to activate 135.4 of our Constitution and 11.3 of the Budget Stability Act, this would mean a temporary suspension of these fiscal rules. Indeed, the depth of the pandemic crisis is going to require a sustained effort, so we have had to set a new spending ceiling for 2021, which amounts to EUR 196 097 million. This is an unprecedented figure, which will enable this Government to draw up and bring to this House by 2021 an expansive General State Budgets, which will protect the family, guarantee the social protection system, the welfare state, and help economic recovery. As you know, this non-financial expenditure limit for 2021 was initially 136 779 million. It is 7.2% higher than the expenditure ceiling approved in 2020. This is the spending ceiling that we could call homogeneous or comparable and it is the one that can be contrasted with previous exercises. Ladies and gentlemen, none of the other data I will report below admit comparison, because such initiatives have never been made in the state and we have never had a recovery plan for our country that allows us to incorporate the first annuality precisely in these budgets. It is well known that this extraordinary situation also requires an extraordinary response and that is why the Government has decided to assume part of the social security deficit and also part of the deficit of the autonomous communities, the two links of the administrations that have seen how the pandemic affected them with greater intensity in the corresponding spending chapters. The measures taken by the Government to cushion this economic and social impact have mainly been passed on to the Public Employment Service and Social Security, which have borne a large part of the costs arising from this extraordinary emergency through the various benefits. This extraordinary expenditure has undoubtedly caused the social security system to incur a greater deficit and, in order to ensure its financial sustainability, the State assumes part of the deficit in the amount of EUR 18,396 million. It's an important part. It is the first step we are going up to achieve the consensus of the Toledo Pact or, in other words, we are already beginning to assume powers of improper calls from Social Security so that the future of our seniors' pensions is not only assured, but that they already have the confidence that this Government and this House are working intensively to make it possible. The State will also assume most of the deficit of autonomous communities, in particular EUR 13 486 million. We do so, ladies and gentlemen, so as not to strain the financial situation. The Autonomous Communities have done a very important job during all the previous years to clean up their public accounts and, above all, we do so so so that the average payment period does not increase and in this way we avoid harming the public providers, the majority related to the health system, the education system or the subjects related to social protection, all of them extraordinarily critical and sensitive sectors precisely at this time of pandemic. With these extraordinary contributions, with these two transfers, the expenditure ceiling rises to 168,661 million. Ladies and gentlemen, if we finally have to add the 27 436 million from the European funds, a figure that is achieved following the agreement reached by the President last July, we are already adding this final figure of 196 097 million euros. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is appropriate to make the whole trip in order not to cheat on the lonely and to know where these figures come from, insisting that the only comparable and homogeneous data that we can use with regard to the expenditure ceiling is that of 7,2 % that I have commented at the beginning of my intervention. Some honourable Members have made a public statement that it seems to them to be a ceiling of excessive expenditure. I'd ask your lordships what chapters they'd take away. What is not responsible from our point of view is to ask for aid for businesses, for families and for workers, to vote in favour of those who bring this government to this House and even to ask for an increase in the initial proposal and then to criticise that all these measures have an impact on public spending. Ladies and gentlemen, we need and need citizens a minimum of coherence. As I have already announced and I can confirm today, the Government will shortly bring the General State Budgets to this House by 2021. The identity signs of public accounts will be cohesion, social justice, the fight against inequality, the consolidation of a balanced, solid, inclusive and, of course, sustainable economic growth model. We are aware that we are moving these weeks, these months, into a land of tremendous uncertainty. Despite this, and without compromising false optimism, the economic projections of this government and other agencies point to an acceleration of economic growth in 2021, which in Spain could reach 9.8% with European funds driven primarily by domestic demand and also, as I said, by the impact of these additional funds. I am talking to you about the data contained in the budget plan which was forwarded to the Commission on the 15th and which you know. While this plan does not yet reflect the full content of the budgets - they have to be negotiated in this House - it does show that, unlike previous crises, this government will not seek solutions in budget cuts or austerity policies proper to the right. This plan reflects this Government's commitment not to leave anyone behind, not to increase the inequality gap. Two of the most relevant measures described in this Budget Plan for 2021 are the upgrading of pensions and the reduction of the gender and social divide. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I can say that our pensioners will maintain their purchasing power by updating pensions according to the projected inflation and will be matched for the first time in our country by paternity and maternity leave at sixteen weeks, a historic fact in our country. [[Applauds]] In parallel, the plan also shows that the revenue of the general government as a whole will increase by EUR 33 billion, ladies and gentlemen, the famous asymmetric V. A rise that is a consequence of economic recovery and also, to a lesser extent, of changes in part of taxes. These changes will, for example, increase VAT on sugary drinks to promote a healthy diet, which is not a collection measure, is a deterrent measure. [[Rumors.-Several Members: No, no, no.-A lady Member: And the others, what?]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u6	I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a collection measure, it is a deterrent to consumption recommended by health experts and technicians to combat childhood obesity, which is one of the major problems that the child population has with regard to diseases, which results in this obesity and some serious diseases, such as, for example, childhood diabetes. [[applause]] [[Several Members: Ah, ah, ah!]] Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a plastic packaging tax that is already being heard, as you will recall, to boost the green economy, or the taxes that this House has already passed on certain digital services, on financial transactions, to bring taxation into line with this 21st century economy. And I said this last week in my speech in response to an inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group on the fiscal measures that the Government intended to push and I repeat today: We are not going to give up a more progressive taxation that brings tax revenues closer to the countries in our environment. That, ladies and gentlemen, we will do so by accompanying the economic cycle, because we are realistic, we will adopt and adapt our fiscal route to the circumstances that arise at every moment; or else we will make it compatible with the adoption of fiscal measures that are also compatible with economic recovery, but which at the same time allow us to finance the social policies necessary for no one to stay behind. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that among the learnings that we undoubtedly want to hear during this pandemic is the need to strengthen the welfare state, primarily public health, public education and protection policy, because that is what allows us, in situations such as the one we are living today, to be equal to all citizens and that no one has to worry about their bank account in order to be cared for in a health centre or for their children to make progress. [[Applauds]] I insist, it is about having all the resources available to be able to reactivate the economy, to ensure this provision of services that do us in this at least to all equals and, ultimately, to regain the economic and social strength of this country. All the resources, including, as we have said these days, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the suspension of fiscal rules, the remnants of the municipalities, so that they can make them available to their populations and implement those policies which are so necessary for economic recovery and social protection. That is why we have to persevere in this task, we must provide it with these resources, even if we have not yet defeated the virus, which I hope will happen when science provides us with a vaccine or a medical treatment that allows us to put this whole situation behind us and look to the future with confidence. It is necessary to underline something that I have reiterated on all occasions when I have been asked: the activation of the legal and constitutional clauses on which we are debating today does not suspend the procedures of the Stability and Growth Pact, simply allows the Member States to postpone the implementation of the budgetary requirements, which are applied under normal conditions, without implying - and I would like to stress - that any and much less undermines our commitment to this budgetary stability. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking, of course, on behalf of this Government, but I believe that all citizens would be relieved and more confident if they were certain that all their representatives are united, they are committed to the effort to recover as soon as possible the levels of economic and social growth of our country, an effort that requires having all the assets available and adequate so that we can promote measures that will really help Spain, our country, and enable this situation to be revived, so that the citizens, who are desiring it, can resume their normality, their professional activity, their vital projects, in short, everything that was truncated by the emergence of the virus. In order to ensure that these resources are sufficient, the Government is asking this House today to support the clear approval that we are facing an extraordinary situation in this country, a pandemic that requires the adoption of equally exceptional measures and that are clearly and fully expressed in our constitutional order. The implementation of 135.4 of the Constitution and 11.3 of the Budget Stability Act is fully justified, according to the Government's view. It is for that reason and not for any other reason that I appear before this House and request this support for the activation of this clause. I would like to point out that we are making this request to further strengthen the legal certainty of the process, because in purity the Congress of Deputies already recognized this exceptional situation when it declared the state of alarm by a pandemic that clearly continues. In any case, and although some legal interpretations suggest that it was not necessary today to request this vote, this assessment, the Government wants to avoid any legal doubt and also to obtain the support of the House representing national sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a final reflection. Anyone, any citizen, who is interested or uninterested in politics, fully understands the different perspectives with which the Government and the opposition face this and any other debate. That's the way it has to be. There has to be an exercise of contrast, even criticism, of confrontation, sometimes logical, which is a reflection of the plurality of our society and also of our parties, but what would not understand anyone, much less in circumstances as serious as those we live in is that political dialectics drift into paralysis when the times we live demand from everyone and from all commitment and determination. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, opposition is not and should not be synonymous with obstruction. The legitimate and necessary exercise of the opposition must be driven by the opposition towards this government, logically, but it cannot be translated into rejecting logical measures, measures which, if you were in the government, would have been applied, such as those we are debating today, absolutely necessary for our country, for our economy, for our businesses, for the workers, ultimately for all our fellow citizens. It is true that the atmosphere in this Chamber is every week more crisp, harder. I would say that, unfortunately, we give the feeling that there is less and less room for agreement, less and less space for dialogue. On many occasions, more than the desired ones, disqualification is imposed on reasoning and the logical discrepancies that exist between the parliamentary groups are addressed with insults, rather than with arguments. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the image we convey as representatives of the popular will is often desolating and contributes to a growing disaffection of politics on the part of citizens. That is why I believe that we all have to think back, it is never too late, and that is why today we have the opportunity to start reversing that trend as a whole by being united with a message that reaches all the Spaniards, a powerful message beyond our borders: that all the parliamentary groups, without exception, are ready to cooperate for the benefit of the general interest. Ladies and gentlemen, my speech has included - I believe that I was obliged to outline the scenario in which we find ourselves - a comprehensive review of some of the measures taken by the Government in the face of the situation which has affected us and which must be included in a draft law on general State budgets, but today the vote I am asking for is another, today the vote I am asking for is not that of supporting the economic policy of the Government. Today the Government does not ask for support for the expenditure ceiling, that is not the debate today, and they know that it is not put to the vote. What the Government is asking you to do plainly, clearly and plainly is to comply with the Constitution in order to respond to the problems and challenges of our nation. Politics - we all know it - is complex, but the responsibility of every public representative, whether in the government or in the opposition, is much more elementary: it means that things are going better, and I hope, ladies and gentlemen, sincerely - I conclude - that this is the case. I ask you to put on the table the general interest of the Spaniards in front of the partisan interests. This is what is requested. I ask for your vote in favour of the assessment that this country is going through a pandemic situation, an extraordinary situation that entails the suspension of fiscal rules. And I have informed you of the figures on the expenditure ceiling, which we will have an opportunity to discuss when the general budgets of the State come to this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. In a position-setting session, Mrs Rodríguez Herrer has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, you are right, today they bring us here to vote if we appreciate that Spain is in a very serious economic situation, with a profound effect on the accounts of the public administrations; only this and nothing more than this. And the time they give us, by the way, is according to the request. I am sure that those who are here today and those who have had to stay in their homes agree with the rating of the situation. Of course, we are in a catastrophic fiscal situation, but not only because of the effects of automatic stabilisers and the measures to support the economy that you have taken, but also because of voluntary government decisions that have increased our structural deficit in a test, let me say, of your fiscal irresponsibility. Brussels has activated the safeguard clause by which it is not going to put in place the mechanisms for non-compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact during the years 2020 and 2021; at the moment they will not sanction us. But, as many national and international institutions and analysts have pointed out, the Spanish situation can be unsustainable. They point out that there is no close horizon of stability for our public accounts and that our indebtedness is more than worrying. It serves as an example of the latest report by the International Monetary Fund, which foresees a deficit of over 4% in 2025 and poor growth figures in the same horizon. And, ladies and gentlemen, if this situation is not used to return to fiscal orthodoxy, we will have lost precious time and in the near future we will have to take measures that will be very painful. But you guys don't care. We are being called upon to support an issue which in itself is difficult to explain. Do you really believe that the constitutional legislator intended us to meet here exclusively to determine that for exogenous reasons we are in recession? Do you really believe that the legislator who developed this article in an organic law full of guarantees for stability and sustainability understood that coming here to ratify that we are doing very badly was meeting our constitutional obligations? I do not believe it; not what the legislator wanted, of course, but that you are not aware of it, even though you have brought this to us, which seems to be a mockery of the role of the legislature in such a crucial matter for the future of Spain and the Spanish. Minister, the problem is not what they bring us, but what they do not bring us. In its strong support for article 3 of the Organic Law in its speeches and part of the Council's agreement, its intentions are guessed. Of course, the law refers to European legislation as the basis of its content! But that is for a higher order to preserve the constitutionality of the text, not an alibi to suspend the entire content of the rule as a result of Europe's temporary structural deficit. You are based on a part of Article 11(3), but you forget two others: the temporary deviation cannot jeopardize fiscal sustainability in the medium term, and the requirement for approval of a rebalancing plan that allows the correction of the deficit taking into account the exceptional circumstance that led to the non-compliance. Neither of these issues is justified or fulfilled in the agreement of last day 6. Moreover, one of the points of that agreement - you have referred to it - contains something that reveals your intention. Nothing more and nothing less, they suspend agreements of the Council of Ministers setting the limits of non-financial expenditure on the State budget and the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for the period 2020-2023 which were referred to the General Courts for the purpose of their approval, agreements of the Council of Ministers which, as far as the objectives of stability are concerned, are expired because their content has already been approved by the General Courts. What is the reason for this suspension? Is it necessary to put an end to an agreement on what falls within the competence of the Council of Ministers, the expenditure limit? No, the new agreement corrects it and that's it. And the objectives of stability cannot be suspended by you because you are already set by Congress and by the Senate, and, in order to make them ineffective, it should be the Chambers that do so. That's why I said the bad thing is what they don't bring us. You have understood that on the basis of the safeguard clauses, and with this act today, the whole procedure laid down in Article 15 of the Budget Stability Act can be blown to the ground. We are not going to determine stability objectives, even if they are exceptional because of the circumstances in which we are living; we are not going to evacuate the mandatory reports of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and the CNAL; we are not going to have a European report or a report from the Banco de España on its forecasts, and, more importantly, we are going to steal from this House and the Senate their right to debate and vote on the deficit and debt target for 2021 and the following years, which is important, as I said at first, for Spain and for the Spanish, for our present and our future. [[applause]] In this sense, the governor of the Banco de España has been demanding it in all his appearances. This approach, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, is what will enable you to do what you want, without any debate and without taking the risk of voting: to increase expenditure without any kind of control - here is the plan you have just presented in Brussels - to raise taxes contrary to what the countries of our environment are doing and without any contrast of impact in relation to growth and job creation in Spain - only with collectable objectives, yes Minister, only with collectable objectives, loaded with ideology; it is reflected in the plan with collection figures, but not with information on the taxes from which it derives - and they also increase public debt in an irresponsible way and at unsustainable levels. And not to mention the macroeconomic picture that supports the aforementioned plan, to which the AIReF presented strong caveats, the duration of the pandemic, which is materializing, and that of the multipliers of the application of European funds, which the governor of the bank of Spain at this headquarters described as very optimistic. Madam Minister, you are the government of obscurantism, the lack of governance and transparency and the lack of absolute respect for democratic institutions and the sharing of powers. This today is no exception, it is another example of how things do. If something doesn't work for them, they skip it without thinking about the consequences it might have. It is another example, such as the change in the rules of play in the General Council of the Judiciary or the scandal of what they are doing with the Education Act, three essential pillars - fiscal situation, justice and education - for the good progress of our country, for our future and reputation and to generate confidence outside our borders. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, supported by a confused parliamentary majority, they are playing a very dangerous game with the foundations of any democratic and modern country. Not everything's worth getting its ends. I'm done. We are going to abstain in the vote because we do not want to be part of what you want. We'll continue to claim everything that's missing.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u9	Mrs. Rodriguez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u10	I conclude, President. Today we have registered a GNP to present the rebalancing plan. But we cannot vote against what can help autonomous communities and local corporations cope with the health, social and economic effects of the pandemic. However, as far as the central government is concerned, we do not speak, because we do not agree with you at all with what you do or how you do it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor for the VOX parliamentary group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the circumstances which under the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability justify an extraordinary breach of fiscal rules are clear: natural disasters, severe economic recession or extraordinary emergencies that escape the control of public administrations, seriously damage their financial situation or damage their economic or social sustainability. We have few such clear and extraordinary circumstances to justify the activation of the exception provided for in our Magna Charter. Spain lives in difficult times, extraordinarily difficult. Its origin is true that we find it in Communist China, but it is also true that its magnitude and impact in Spain derives directly from a highly negligent management by this government, just as it comes today to demand fiscal flexibility; for the same reason, because they have the worst management that has been carried out anywhere in the world. The response to the public health and emergency perpetrated by this Government can only be described as incompetent. Incompetence in the closure of borders, in the late declaration of the pandemic, in the protection - or lack thereof - of our health care workers, in the establishment of protective measures in the descalation; negligent in everything. The result is more than 56,000 dead compatriots. That's why you should never say again that we don't leave anyone behind. We have the world record for infected health care, a relapse that is already alarming. Pedro Sánchez solemnly declared that he had overcome the virus before summer and a few weeks later we were already leading the world in second wave contagions. The answer to social problems has been and continues to be insufficient, Minister, mainly because all the propaganda in the world is worth little if we forget that the best social shield is always the generation of employment. Unemployment is the main cause of poverty, inequality and social exclusion, and it hurts me to see again, and there are already many, that Spain has destroyed more employment and more intensely than any other country in our environment, with a particular impact on youth unemployment, which is the highest in the West, and, despite the self-congratulation of the Government, we are the country that has destroyed the most employment throughout Europe. Finally, the insufficient economic response has not prevented the very important destruction of part of our productive fabric. Ladies and gentlemen, we knew that this was going to be a tough crisis, it has been in all countries, but the management of this government has exceeded the worst of the forecasts. We will be the worst of advanced economies in 2020, as the IMF acknowledges. I recommend that you look at the publication of the Financial Times, from the table where it is discovered that Spain is not only the worst-managed country in the pandemic, but also the worst-managed country in the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, for many years the Spaniards have been working for the state, they have spent many months of their annual work only paying taxes. It is fair that now, when because of the pandemic and neglectful management they cannot work, the State returns that effort to them. As long as recovery is not a reality, the State must continue to support families and the productive fabric in order to prevent today's cyclical damage from becoming structural and permanent damage. It is necessary to maintain expansionary emergency measures, which is doubtful, but we are faced with a difficult disjunctive. Is it responsible to allow a government with these credentials to increase spending at your will? Clearly not. We have to limit it. That is why the dispensation granted by this House today in order not to comply with the tax rules cannot be understood as a blank cheque, and that is why since VOX we will refrain from dispensing it, because we do not trust you. Minister, we played a lot. The starting point was no longer good. The successive governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party, first, fired public debt to unacceptable levels; then, in the years of economic growth, they lost the great opportunity to lessen the burden of public debt on gross domestic product, keeping that level above 100 per cent during the following years, and now we are in a situation of vulnerability to the future, as the Governor of the Bank of Spain pointed out a few days ago. For this year, the AIReF estimates a deficit for which it could reach 14.4% of gross domestic product in the worst case scenario, and this would lead to an increase in debt of up to nothing less than 123% of gross domestic product. I know that that doesn't tell you much; you have to learn a little more about mathematics and economics. The law obliges the government to bring to this House within a month a plan of rebalancing, a credible fiscal consolidation strategy that brings us back to the path of budgetary stability - in this country the so-called holy fear of deficit has been lost - and we need a plan of rebalancing that dispels, clears all doubts about its commitment to the health of public accounts, to the process of budgetary consolidation, so necessary and demanded by Europe, and to place our level of indebtedness out of risk. Madam Minister, on the way we are going, on the path you are taking us, Spain is at serious risk of default of debt, we are at serious risk of insolvency, bankruptcy, default. I don't know how to tell him! We are about to lead Spain in the year 2021 to absolute disaster, and that is why in VOX we have serious doubts about its ability to manage this situation. I'm going to systematize it very quickly. Firstly, we doubt their determination to correct the increase in unnecessary public spending. There is one thing clear: either we cut the spending of politicians or we will end up cutting the spending of the Spaniards, that is unquestionably, and you seem to have already chosen, and, worse, you seem to be unwilling to rectify. His Government was the most expensive in democracy, with more ministers, more secretaries of state, more directors-general, more advisers, and more political spending. Yes, minister, it's a real spending party, but it's also a socialist party, that is, one of the most expensive. [[Applauds]] In the time since the beginning of the pandemic, you have shown no willingness to substantially cut public spending and especially political spending, just the opposite of what happens with our taxes. The second question concerns precisely the recurrent threat of its rise in taxes, which could put the recovery at risk. Last week you sent a budget plan to Brussels, committing yourself to reducing the deficit by 30% next year. But they increase public spending and put all the adjustment to an increase in taxes, and that puts the recovery at risk. Madam Minister, you have denied me up to four times in this room the rise in taxes. Now we know the tax hack that you bring: more VAT, more diesel tax, Tobin tax, Google tax, today you have talked about taxes on plastics, sugary drinks, those that must be for the rich, because the middle class will not pay any more taxes with you, and what we have left. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, we have serious doubts about the possibility, in the absence of its definitive approval, of designing investments and reforms that can be presented in the amount of EUR 27 billion, as is necessary to receive European funds. That in Spain has always been called selling the bear's skin before hunting it. Fourthly, we see little will to hunt that bear precisely. The recovery fund is linked to the implementation of a reform agenda. You don't seem to want to go that way. Finally, Your Honor, in Spain, it is necessary to make investments to attract investors, and not to drive them away, which is what you do; to undertake, not to resign to go shooting; to create employment, not to sow doubts on those who think about hiring, and to encourage the creation of wealth, not to foster State dependence. You're going the other way. That's why our fifth doubt, and last, it's still you. You keep a vice president who, during the last crisis, advocated not meeting our commitments, paying off the debt and leaving the euro, and that is a torpedo in the line of flotation of our credibility. Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Spain cannot issue a default, it cannot be allowed a bankruptcy, which is the way you lead us. Bring in a rebalancing plan that clears up all those doubts or you better get out of here.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u13	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u14	Tomorrow in the motion of censure we will remind you again. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u15	Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u16	Good afternoon, everyone. In an exceptional year like the one we live in, it is not the first time that this House has been solemnly convened to adopt new emergency measures. In this case, the Government intends today to put a non-minor part of the budgetary package that has prevailed over almost a long decade in the Spanish public administration, and it does so almost as a necessary prerequisite for the adoption of general budgets, which this time go far beyond the annual public accounts. I dare say that they will be the most important of the past ten years and surely the most important of the next decade, not only because they are called to start a change of economic direction in our country at a very delicate time in its history, but because they can come to foreshadow a certain block of governance for the immediate future of Spain. The suspension of the tax rules we are discussing today will allow the government to set a non-financial expenditure limit of EUR 196 billion, as has already been said. Of these, some 27 000 correspond to Community recovery funds. This is nothing that is not already being done in the countries of our environment. In March, Germany approved the suspension of the constitutional brake on debt, a limitation equivalent to 0.35% of GDP, and also launched an additional budget of EUR 156 billion, which has already been implemented this year. For its part, the Italian Government has recently approved the multiannual budget for the three-year period 2021-2023, in which it estimates that the deficit for 2020 will be 10.7% and 7% for 2021. Similarly, France does not plan to return to deficit levels below 3% until at least 2025. Many will say that all this hardly implies a parenthesis, that things will soon be back or should be back as before; in fact, we have already heard it today. Certainly, the measures that we intend to adopt here do not cease to be literally temporary suspensions of strict procedures imposed in Europe years ago. But perhaps some and some of us see with some more optimism - a content optimism, yes - not a momentary outburst of a certain spending ceiling, but rather the activation of the emergency brake inside that locomotive towards the abyss that the great intellectual Walter Benjamin glimpsed in the days prior to his tragic death at the hands of the Francoist police and the Gestapo, a locomotive that was launched on 7 February 1992 in the city of Maastricht. On that winter Dutch morning the European countries sealed the beginning of a certain way of understanding European construction. Among the premises and principles that accompanied that treaty was that the State, the public, was inherently inefficient and, therefore, its action should be limited as much as possible to prevent distortions in the markets. In fact, it was still an old neoclassical utopia of its own in the 19th century based on a spontaneous, almost magical general balance, where the state would be nothing but a disruptive agent, an annoying anomaly. Under these old premises, with arguments of an ancient civil and end-to-end faith, they endeavored to sharpen the size of the state to the extreme. Strategic goods and enterprises were sold, much of the domestic industry was dismantled and many decisions affecting the well-being of all were put in the hands of private interests. Moreover, the development of collective goods as fundamental as public health and education, the rights of dependence, was committed, all in a context in which the radical dualisation of the labour market was deepened, in which they ended up living with large pockets of precarious work together with structural unemployment rates above 15%, especially of women and young people, systematically expelled to social margins by one way or another. Well, on September 15, 2008, Lehman Brothers broke down and IBEX sank below the 11,000-point barrier. In those days French President Sarkozy called on world leaders to literally refound capitalism, he said. It turns out that none of those recipes that had sold us served to prevent the debacle, rather empowered it. The effort of years to keep public debt below 60%, as stated in Maastrich's decalogue, did not prevent Spain from going from 35.8 to 100.7 % of debt in just three and a half years' time when production and employment collapsed and with it tax revenues. On June 9, 2012, at a press conference, of infamous memory, Minister De Guindos went out publicly to make all possible dialectical jugglings not to call rescue what was a billionaire bank bailout in every rule. Only a month later, in July, Montoro announced widespread increases in VAT and other taxes, accompanied by draconian cuts in unemployment benefits. Our country did not recover its GDP from 2008 until 2016, and I do not say that the country came out of the crisis because the truth is that we are far from having managed to reduce the levels of social inequality fired since that time. According to the Arope report, just before the start of this new crisis there were 979 000 more people in Spain than in 2008 in a situation of vulnerability. Therefore, if anything we can learn from all this trance that we are going through, if anything should serve this pandemic is to regain confidence in public action, in the state. It is not a question of fetishizing political institutions as an immediate solution to all evils; quite the contrary, the State is not a God, it is only a tool. A democratic state must be monitored, and, as an expression of the collective, must be managed with the utmost transparency precisely to avoid the unfortunate spectacle that this old patrimonialist management of the public institutions that we know so well in this country and that in the background is behind the Gürtel, the Lezo, the Kitchen and one who knows if not infinite et cetera. However, only from the State is it possible to implement some of the very necessary social measures that are already being implemented in Spain and that must be strengthened throughout this same legislature. Not even you, ladies and gentlemen of the mountains, of the right, who see themselves next to the king and the judicial dome as the last bastion of purity in the face of socialcommunism, have been able to avoid voting in favour to date. Well, in an unprecedented act of resistance, worthy of all heroism, I think VOX has come to abstain in the reddest measures, such as minimum living income, the multiplication of public credit and the increase of university scholarships. Furthermore, we must take advantage of the moment that the European context gives us to finally overcome the old and exhausted beach and brick binomial, undertaking productive reforms that will allow us to finally diversify our economy. We are now in the majority who sense that the way out of this difficult situation is through a genuine ecological transition and a pending digitisation, and that the only way to meet with guarantees such major challenges will be through the determined action of the State, a fair action, which generates clear certainty and rules of play for the rest of the social and economic actors. Only with an intelligent combination of all politically focused efforts will we be able to achieve a more sustainable and friendly relationship with our environment. It will be necessary to increase R & D levels and the productivity of our business fabric to levels that we do not know today - I admit - but which will have to make the welfare state viable for the next fifty years. It then serves, ladies and gentlemen, this process of parliamentary impetus in that direction. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u18	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Good afternoon, minister. We are discussing whether we are suffering from a pandemic which is an extraordinary emergency situation that makes sense of the suspension of tax rules. It seems clear to us that it is, but rather a small preview. Yesterday we heard the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which sentenced the previous Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia to one year and eight months of disqualification for allowing a debate in the parliamentary seat, in the Parliament of Catalonia. It is the umpteenth sentence against independence, and this is particularly serious because justice seeks to decide what can and cannot be debated in Parliament. The Spanish State is de facto a State where judicial autarchy is practised. Our support to Anna Simó, Ramona Barrufet, Lluís Guinó and Lluís Corominas, and a memory to President Forcadell, who is 12 and a half years in prison for allowing the same debate. [[Applauds]] Minister, we were told and repeated to the satisfaction that we could not, that if we did not vote the royal decree-law with measures for the municipalities there would be no second chance; they called us irresponsible for opposing the municipalities to transfer their remnants to the State; they told us that it would be our fault if the municipalities did not arrive at the end of the year with sufficient resources to fight the crisis of the COVID-19, and time has ended up proving that it could, but they did not; that there was a second chance and that we were right when the Catalan Republican municipalism stood before the royal decree-law that intended to attack the principle of municipal autonomy. [[The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado, makes negative signs with her head]] We will also see whether you have learned that parliamentary arithmetic is clumsy and that 155 seats - a number of very bad memories for us and a lot of shame for you - are not 176, and that with attempts of 'trilerism' votes are not taken forward, but are taken out with dialogue, negotiation and agreement. Today we will vote in favour of suspending the budgetary stability framework. We will therefore vote in favour of the municipalities being able to dispose of all their remnants accumulated for years because of centralist and unjust laws. We will therefore vote in favour of greater spending capacity for the Generalitat de Catalunya. We agree to suspend a set of tax rules that advocate that, in times of recession, spending be reduced. I am referring, of course, to Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution and to the Act on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. This legal framework, armed by Mr Montoro, has for years led to cuts in the welfare state, supporting the foundations of a neoliberal model applauded by the economic elites, which has turned the Parliament of Catalonia and the Spanish state into European leaders in child poverty and job insecurity. This is the legacy that left years of the People's Party government and its austerid policies. That is why we understand that, in the face of the social and economic emergency caused by COVID, suspending these fiscal rules is the necessary step to give a radically opposite response to what was given in 2008. In times of recession we need countercyclical policies, more public investment; in times of recession we need expansionary economic policies. And there's still work to be done. We are a party with a deeply municipalist vocation and our obligation is to defend the municipalities, the administration closest to the citizenry. In the face of managing this crisis, we cannot leave any town hall alone, whether or not it has any leftovers. We therefore once again call for the creation of a COVID fund of EUR 5 billion so that municipalities can meet the needs arising from the pandemic. I'm finishing up. We live in very complicated moments in which we are forced to make difficult decisions to preserve the health of our citizens as much as possible and to do everything possible not to repeat a scenario like that of March, catastrophic not only for our health, but also for our economy. In this sense, from the Government of the Generalitat we have taken necessary measures - difficult but necessary - to curb the progress of the pandemic and reduce social interactions; severe measures with a severe impact on the affected sectors, such as the limitation of the activity of bars, restaurants, aesthetic centers, as well as other activities. At the same time, today the Government of the Generalitat has adopted measures to try to alleviate this impact but, as Vice-President Aragonès reminded President Sánchez last Friday by letter, it is imperative that the Government of the State order a moratorium on the collection of taxes such as VAT and corporate tax, as well as social security contributions, and facilitate the moratorium on the payment of loans and basic supplies. How will the bill for this month's light, VAT and social contributions pay a small restorer with the blind down? These are urgent measures that, if they were up to us, we would have already taken; they exercise their responsibility and help protect the sector. Since you don't want to give in to skills, at least use them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u19	Thank you, sir, Margall. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the government has brought here today the suspension of the restrictive provisions of the Tax Stability and Financial Sustainability Act. It seems to us, logically, to be good news above all, bearing in mind that in recent debates both article 135 of the Constitution and Law 2/2012 seemed to be engraved in stone. In any case, this decision of the Government, although motivated by an exceptional situation such as the one caused by the pandemic, comes to us to give reason to the political forces that for years we have been questioning the limitations imposed or self-imposed in economic policies to maintain the dogma of austerity that has caused so much suffering in the most vulnerable sectors of society and in the peoples of the Spanish State. They also announce an expenditure ceiling of EUR 196 billion; it is undoubtedly a major change in relation to previous years: more money but also greater responsibility for the government. This figure certainly allows for an expansive budget. First of all, we want this budget to enable us to respond adequately to the needs of our country, in Galicia, by compensating for the historical deficit in investments and by collecting the necessary funds to comply strictly with the investment agreement between the BNG and the Socialist Party, which is, above all, a commitment of the Government to Galicia and to all Galicians and Galicians. Finally, we want that budget to enable us to deal with the social and economic emergency situation and lay the foundations for a socially just exit from the crisis. I'm done. The 2008 crisis was resolved with policies that prioritized rescuing banks from people. We see with some concern signs that this Government can make the same mistake, prioritizing the rescue of IBEX 35's profit and loss accounts against ensuring the salaries and coverage of people who are going to be unemployed, of the self-employed, who do not know if they will be able to keep the blind up. We sincerely hope that this will not be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u21	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Errejón Galván has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u22	Thank you, Madam President. We have commented many times in this Congress in the last few months that sometimes in life, unfortunately, critical situations have to come in order for us to realize what is truly important. It has had to arrive a virus and a misfortune like this so that we understand that public health does not shrink or that we once again understand that a State is not an accountant who registers cash in and out, but has to be responsible for the well-being of its people and for economic development. In this sense, the poorly-called austerity policies, neoliberalism, did not work. They were unjust, but above all profoundly ineffective. I congratulate you, Minister, because you bring a positive and very important decision: to suspend the rule of spending, which is a corset that has nothing scientific. It was fundamentally a profoundly ideological decision. I invite you to follow that path and turn it into a new economic course. Now that the European Union seems to be rectifying, it is time to repeal the anachronistic and infamous article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, that reform made in secret of the Spanish people, in August 2011, which put the interests of the debt above those of the country. It also has a spending ceiling with a truly expansive figure. It is true that a good part will go to cushion the social coup, in our opinion with a very sharp social shield, for which many people still hang, but in addition to cushioning the coup we need to move forward and use it as a lever to modernize our productive fabric. In that sense, as important as how much is spent is how it is spent. We use this situation as a lever to take Spain beyond this weak model of brick, sangria and precariousness, orienting it towards the sectors of greatest future and added value: digital reindustrialisation, science and innovation, the ecological transition. For us, the fight against climate change is not a concern for the good times, when we are freed up. It is a serious and urgent problem, but it is also a great opportunity to generate thousands of green jobs, with powerful, sustained public investment, strategically directed by an extra-entrepreneur and sustained by fair taxation. This is what we hope to see in the General Budgets of the State, Minister, and for them to prosper - you know I tell you with affection - the minority government must take care of its support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u23	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, one more week from this rostrum I must denounce the demand for an unjust sentence, which embarrasses us or should embarrass us in the face of Europe as a whole. Yesterday the Bureau of Parliament, a democratically elected Parliament, like this one we are in today, was condemned simply by letting its Members debate. I'm saying it's because it happened in Catalonia and it can happen here too. In any case, from here a hug to Lluís Guinó, Lluís Corominas, Anna Simó, Ramona Barrufet and President Forcadell, who by the same facts has been sentenced to prison. [[applause]] Someone should think about it. In any case, Minister, we are here today for what we are. We are going to vote in favour and without any doubt, with conviction, the two items that are going to be put to the vote today. The 196 097 million euros of expenditure ceiling does not seem to us to be a feast of expenditure, since it seems to us the necessary expenditure in an exceptional situation. In exceptional situations, exceptional solutions. We also think that the fiscal rules for the years 2020 and 2021 should be put on hold. But, Minister, I will remind you of the discussion we had on September 10 in this House, when we were trying to validate Royal Decree-Law 27/2020. Then it could not be, there was no solution and the Constitution and the organic law had to be touched so that the municipalities could use their remnants. Obviously not. There was a solution, they bring it here, and I hope they have a majority support today. Every time, I must remind you that a number of things remain pending from that royal decree-law and today I demand them: the 5 billion of the fund or the 3000 committed for this year, the fund for municipal transport, the updates of the PIE, which are also necessary before the end of the year, and those aid through the deputies that should be received by the municipalities with negative remnants. Minister, all this should bring you for your approval... Yeah, you laugh, but I don't know if they're gonna laugh so much at town halls when they hear it. They should bring it to their approval, because, if not, they will have problems with the budgets, because I doubt that some of the groups that supported all those measures can support the budgets without solving this. Having said that, Minister, let me say - and I suppose you will like this - that I liked the approach you have taken with regard to the small lines pointed out in relation to the budget for 2021. It seems reasonable to me that you do not give up on changing the progressiveness of the Spanish tax system, but do not do so at this time in order to adjust it according to the economic recovery. This is a good beginning, a good foundation. We also agree with the spending ceiling they approve. Now what they have to do is bring the budgets and try to deal with the majority of the House. If they are skilled and able to do so, surely the whole of the Spanish state and also the whole of the Catalans will win. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u26	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I will be allowed my first words in this rostrum to remind and fire my colleague Joan Mesquida, who was a Member of this House in the last parliamentary term. [[Prolonged applause]] He was an honest person, a man of integrity and a deep sense of state. Joan, wherever you are, we'll always remember you as a great Democrat and a tireless fighter. Good afternoon, minister. It is curious to come up to this rostrum to discuss the abolition of tax rules without the Government having fulfilled its duties and without even submitting a draft budget. Not a single orientation, beyond the vagueness he sent to Brussels last week. This is worrying, because the uncertainty this government is creating with its messages and probe balloons destroys jobs, closes business and strangles our economy. And it's worrying because they forget that every day that goes by without budgets is paid by the Spaniards. In addition, yesterday we learned that Spain is going to give up asking for a large part of European aid. They owe us an explanation, minister. Is it because we don't need those help? Or is it because you are not able to plan, manage and coordinate these aids and projects from Moncloa? The failure to see the President applaud and cheer for this EUR 140 billion is not paid, it is not paid if now his false optimism or his inability to manage leads us to comply with half of the aid. Mrs Montero, this is not the way, European aid must be applied for and applied in a consensual way, by dialogue with the opposition, social partners and the rest of the institutions. Mrs. Montero, tell us, what's your government's plan? We do not know the main lines of the budgets, we do not know what they are going to do with European aid, nor do we know which way they will choose for the budgets. The rigorous, moderate and efficient citizens or the Frankenstein of independenceists and billuets? I suppose you are aware of the macroeconomic situation from which we are based; the most optimistic forecasts we have on the table are those of the Government itself, and to be the most optimistic are a fall in gross domestic product of more than 11%, a deficit of more than 11%, a public debt at levels close to 120 % and an unemployment rate of 17 %. Of course, your optimism for me would want it, I'm serious about it. Because you make those predictions by contemplating only the best possible scenario, a scenario that unfortunately does not depend on you, which is the existence of a vaccine for the first half of next year. What if we don't have a vaccine, minister? You just spoke a moment ago of green outbreaks, recovery in V, asymmetric V. Are you really coming here to talk about green and asymmetric V outbreaks? I remind you, Minister, that the International Monetary Fund has just improved its expectations for all the major economies of the world except for Spain. I also remind you that only the economies of Bolivia and Venezuela are more affected than the Spanish economies by this pandemic. And I also remind you that the AIReF has already warned of the high risks of its economic forecasts and asked them not to transfer that optimism to the budgets. I sincerely hope that you will be able to interpret the graphs and that, instead of seeing an asymmetric V sees an inverted V; and I hope that you will continue to treat the Spaniards as elderly and not try to deceive them with grapes or green sprouts. In Citizens we understand that we are facing an exceptional situation. In fact, we were the first in March to call for national emergency budgets to deal together with what was on top of us, an unusual crisis, a brutal economic crisis of still unsuspected magnitude. But we cannot help worrying about the enormous lack of reform and expenditure control, Minister. Where are the reforms? You asked the opposition a moment ago here in the rostrum to tell you what expenses we would take. For I tell you where you can start: by reducing the mastodontic administration we have, you are eliminating duplicities, you are regardless of some of your twenty-two ministries, your corresponding advisors, trusted personnel and official cars. And don't make me talk today about the horn that was created in that ghostly agreement of the Bureau, in which we wanted to debate, propose and accept - and in the end we don't know what happened - the rise in the salary to Members. Look, while millions of families, self-employed and SMEs are marked by this crisis, raising even a salary increase to Members of this House is, at least, shameful. Minister, let's go late, let's go late to act and, the more uncertainty there is, the more bandages in this government, the more austerity - than you have not wanted to talk about - will need the country and for longer. But I'm going to move you three questions. He knows that the European Union could reactivate budgetary adjustments from 2022 onwards. If that happens, the receipt of aid for our country would be put at risk in the event of non-compliance. Has your government considered this? In addition, money for reconstruction could be frozen in the future for countries with an excessive deficit and which do not implement the European Union's correction recommendations. Does your Government count on it? Finally, what do we do if we apply the democratic clause from Europe for its attempt to politicize even more the General Council of the Judiciary and we are left without funds for reconstruction? Do you intend to do anything about this in order to avoid the economic quagmire that derives from the quagmire to judicial independence on the part of your Government? I'm done. We have a hard and long way to go and the Spaniards have to see that in this House there are 350 people dedicated in body and soul to solving their problems. When the country is plunged into an unprecedented crisis, when people die and families are ruined, politicians must seek solutions. That is the path that we Citizens choose, the path of responsibility. We will support this agreement because we are in an exceptional situation that requires exceptional measures, because this is provided for by the Constitution and the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability and because it is the path that has marked us Europe. On the question of whether you believe Spain is suffering a pandemic, gentlemen of the PP and VOX, do you abstain? Is Spain suffering a pandemic and do you, with one hand, press the abstention button and ask for the same tax rules to be suspended for the local entities and the autonomous communities where you govern? I really don't understand. This support, minister, is not a blank check. Votes like today give us the reason that, although it is a huge effort for my parliamentary group, for Citizens, to negotiate with a government like yours in front of you, we are doing exceptional things that many Spaniards are also doing to move forward.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u27	Mrs. Muñoz, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u28	I'm done. Citizens offer responsibility and sense of state, minister, the same responsibility and sense of state that we demand of you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u30	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. Pick it up on. Today, the vote is taken on the agreement adopted by the Government requesting the Congress to assess that Spain is suffering from a pandemic, which is an extraordinary emergency provided for in articles 135.4 and 11.3 of the Stability Act, and is therefore allowed to exceed the limits of structural deficit and volume of public debt. Minister, after listening to your defense, without entering into an assessment of our position, I would ask you what has changed. What has changed now to be able to apply the escape clauses? Today, and not a month ago? Where are the consultations with the State's Advocate, who were then so forceful, that the municipalities were not allowed to incur deficits? The truth is, he told us that now was the time, but I believe that without further argument. The European Union, in March, first resorted to the temporary suspension of the principle of budgetary stability in order to respond to the enormous challenge we faced as a result of the COVID, a health crisis that has resulted in a social and economic crisis with very harsh forecasts, especially for the Spanish economy. Since then, this group has asked on several occasions for the flexibility of fiscal rules, for the activation of the escape clauses contained in the Stability Act and also for the application of article 135.4 of the Constitution, which has so far been denied. Minister, we were also told at the 31 August appearance that Europe was proceeding with the suspension of the Stability and Growth Pact so that countries could spend without being subject to tax rules to meet the new needs generated by COVID, and that it was paradoxical that countries would be released from this stability pact when they exceeded a deficit rate of 3% of GDP and local entities, however, could not do so when the origin of this non-compliance was based on the same causes. We also told him that 135.4 supported him, that exceptionality was possible. He was also told by Mr. Pisarello, who was not suspected of trying to end the government, and also by Mr. Bell, and you were telling us that neither an organic law, the Stability Act, nor the Constitution could be changed by a decree-law. This is obvious. That is why we asked him for something that was also obvious: to implement the enabling mechanism provided for in 135.4 and 11.3 of the Stability Act, and even to propose to him the amendment of that law through the amendments proposed to the budget stability amendment bill that is currently in this House. You then held, with the same vehemence that today holds the opposite, that allowing local corporations to have deficit was not covered by the Constitution. With this argument he defended the transfer of the remnants of the municipalities to the State. You told us that the consultations made to the State Advocate regarding the margin allowed by the Constitution were forceful. Town halls can't go into deficit. Again, I repeat. It's paradoxical that they couldn't before and now they can. We are told that this is necessary for administrations to have the capacity to put all resources at the service of citizens, to maintain those social and economic stimulus policies, so as not to leave anyone behind. Now you do and a month ago, don't you? Time has given us reason, because what was not possible before, today it is possible. Minister, we understand that this could have been raised earlier. We would have saved time, the municipalities and the autonomous communities would have been able to act more quickly and, indeed, you would have saved yourself the total rejection of that decree in this House, even putting the President of the FEMP in a complicated situation and showing the existence of tensions between the two forces that make up the Government. His partner in government, the Confederal Group of Podemos, had to pass the tragala. I have not come to understand that totally impossible strategy to reach this totally possible today. But, well, they've decided to change their strategy and where I said, I mean Diego. Correcting, of course, is wise. Thus, the Government is taking this measure in line with Europe; a measure which not only benefits the municipalities and the autonomous communities, but also the Government itself, because with this agreement it is not obliged to present a path of deficit and public debt for the period 2020-2023, to which all public administrations would have to adhere and which, moreover, would have to be approved by Parliament, as a first step in the preparation of the general budgets of the State; objectives, in short, whose compliance will not be mandatory and which will therefore serve simply as a kind of guide for each administration, since, moreover, there will be no penalties for those administrations that fail to comply with them. With this agreement, the Government joins many other countries of the European Union that have activated their national escape clauses since March. We and the Basque Group are going to vote in favour of this agreement, because we have always demanded the application of exceptionality and, therefore, the activation of the escape clauses. We have always defended the autonomy of the administrations and did not understand that autonomous communities and local entities should be protected by a State that, since the crisis broke out in 2008, has failed, despite the years of growth, to meet the public deficit, if not with the help of the over-compliance of other sectors, or to reduce the outflow of debt. Minister, we are aware that not all administrations are in the same starting position to deal with COVID. The clearest example has been the local corporations, which have been the great enforcers of stability rules. They have a surplus and remnant that allows them to maintain and strengthen the provision of aid to citizens and support vital sectors of the economic structure of the municipalities. You said that you are the closest to citizenship and those who always respond with immediacy and effectiveness. It is an escape that will enable all administrations to draw up budgets for 2021, in an environment that is new and unknown, in which they will be able to use all their available funds to meet their own competences and competences that are also exceptional: health, social and employment. But we also understand that this agreement should have been a little more concrete in terms of the use of remnants, surpluses, because nothing is said of that 0.1 of GDP for the deficit of local corporations, that is, how it will be sustained, if it will allow instability up to that percentage in approval, in execution. We, as we have said, will vote in favour, but we also ask from here something more, because this today is an exceptional response to an exceptional situation, and - you have said it - this is temporary. When this is over, the Stability Act will remain there, it will remain there, and it will be necessary to review it so that in the future the administrations will not be cornered, as they are all aware, or so we understand, that, in general, they have acted and will continue to act with fiscal responsibility, and what is not to be received is to apply uniformity or, as is said, coffee for all. Coffee for all does not turn out, because, as I said, not all administrations leave or leave the same situation. Equality is not equity and the right thing is not to give everyone the same thing, but to give everyone what they need. We do not share, as you have rightly said, that this is a feast of spending; we find it irresponsible to say this about the management of administrations when we have seen the surpluses and the remnants they have. In short, our vote in this House will be in favour of a decision that is taken at a time when we believe that it is exceptional and that allows the Government, the autonomous communities and the local authorities a new framework, a more real framework for presenting budgets and making available to citizens the best public health, social and educational services, which lay the foundations for a green, equal, inclusive, digital economic recovery and which have people at the centre of their policies, betting on an expansive policy, as you have said, that removes cuts and precariousness and drives growth. For this recovery to be possible, our group, once again, is going to reach out to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u32	Eskerrik asko, president. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, nothing more obvious than the perception that we are in the middle of a pandemic; nothing more obvious than the fact that this represents an extraordinary emergency; and obviousness, if this serves to prevent the application of articles 135.4 of the Constitution and 11.3 of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability, we agree with this perception. We will therefore support it and vote that yes, even if the underlying problem persists and this is not enough to give the response that the municipalities need. After insisting for weeks and months that the spending rule should be put to an end in order to be able to use the remnants of the municipalities in the face of the pandemic, we welcome the fact that at least this issue is unravelled and the unjust closure that has been cast on municipal resources for so many years is suspended. I am not going to repeat that 'we already told you', 'we told you there was another alternative'; I am not going to focus on this. Like I said, he's finally here, but he's late, it's true. Town halls are already lagging enormously behind this pandemic situation, to which the consistories must respond immediately and urgently to their citizens. And it should be remembered, yes, that with this measure the State is giving nothing to the municipalities that are in this front line fighting the needs of the pandemic; that with this measure they are only allowed to spend the money that they had trapped in those unjust regulations that have brought no benefit to the municipalities. On the other hand, it remains to be seen and we would like to know what about the government's public commitment to provide the municipalities with an extraordinary fund, given the situation created by COVID-19, because now it will be allowed to use the funds, the treasury remnants, but the consistories need an extraordinary injection and with this measure - I repeat - they are not being given anything that they did not have. On the previous occasion when I spoke of this subject from this rostrum, I spoke of the figure of the maze, and today I will speak of the straight line; straight lines, without rodeos, without bumps, without complicated lines. Madam Minister, I will repeat to you again what we have told you so many times since Euskal Herria Bildu. I say this once again: Section 135 and the Budget Stability Act must be repealed. This must be done in order to carry out progressive policies, so that the budgets of the institutions, of our institutions, but also of the whole State, can be decided where they should be decided. Municipal autonomy must be restored to the place from which it should never have left, and for that it is essential to repeal these laws. And this issue should be a priority not only for the sovereignist forces, such as ours, but also for the progressive forces. And yes, Minister Montero, we have to deal with the pandemic crisis in the only possible way that the future is better and not worse than we are today; and the only possible way is with more investment, with more public spending, for resources to reach those who need it most. I'm done, I won't extend much longer. The Budget Stability Act and Article 135 can and should be repealed. They have the necessary majority, the sufficient majority to be able to do so; it is a matter of political will. If you want, you can, and I encourage you to opt for the straight line. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u34	Thank you, President. Minister, we will vote in favour of what they bring us today, although from their speech we were surprised that he almost apologized for bringing us this proposal. Turning mainly to the right, he came to tell them that there is no such thing, he has even remembered that soon it will have to return to stability, which agrees with the words that yesterday Minister Calviño said on the radio, which contrasts somewhat with what Pablo Echenique announced the day this decision was made: that it was the death of austerity. Today, Mr Guijarro has been a little more cautious and has spoken of content optimism. It does not seem to us that they should apologize for taking such a step as they are taking, but it should be a consequent budgetary offensive. That is, it is a shock measure to allow debt to increase, but it alone does not redistribute wealth, which is ultimately the goal of transformative policies. It should therefore be consolidated with aspects that have already been said, with the repeal of the counter-reform of article 135 and with the repeal of the Law on Budgetary Stability, and insisting that without profound economic transformation the debt ends up being a problem. Transformation is progressive taxation, mainly, for example, about banking, about big companies, about big fortunes, about big tax evaders, and none of them have you mentioned here. And transformation should also be a debt audit, as Ecuador did at the time, since debt is also a form of creditor domination over us. None of this is likely to happen in this legislature or later. That is why we, too, reaffirm our independenceist commitment, since independence means economic sovereignty as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u35	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, good hours, green sleeves! We told them that in July at the Reconstruction Commission, they told them to their own partners. Mr. Bel and I fought, I don't know how many times and you said you couldn't, and today you're coming. It needed this country, and the citizens above all - not the municipalities, the communities - that the surplus could be devoted to people who are having a bad time, the incorporation of remnants, suspending the rule of spending, and in the end comes today, when this could be resolved perfectly and not having asked for the vote on the decree or the Reconstruction Commission. I hope you will stop saying that masks cannot be reduced by European standards when all European countries are doing so, because it is going to happen to them as with this. I just want to say that we are going to support it because we believe that this country needs to suspend the spending rule, have budgets, reconstruction budgets for the whole country but also for the Canary Islands, which is different and the worst is happening. We reach out to him, we will support him and we hope that we can find ourselves in support of the budgets, because it means that these budgets are good for this country and for my land, which is Canary Islands. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u37	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] You have Mr. Quevedo Iturbe's word.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u38	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, 1354 was applicable. We've had to tell him a few. We have been fighting for months to implement 135.4 of the Constitution which we are against amending 135. Paragraph 4 said that in these circumstances the tax rules had to be suspended, and that was what had happened late, but it was never too late if the saying was good. We would have been relieved by a few rather fruitless debates about the possibility that local corporations and autonomous communities could make use of their surplus and their remnants. We are perfectly clear that there are only two ways of acting in a misfortune like that which is currently taking place in the State: one is crushing the majority and the other is supporting the majority. And this is the way to support majorities, because responsibility from public administrations has to be to save people when you can't save them in any other way. Therefore, we are going to support this initiative of the Government, it seems to us to be the right thing to do, and it also seems to us to be crucial to do what is most urgent to do now, which is to draw up and carry out the general budgets of the State. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u39	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u40	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Our group is going to support this Government initiative because, of course, not doing so would be like understanding that nothing has happened from February to here, and it is clear that we are facing a completely different situation that requires exceptional decisions that are also covered by our Constitution. Having said that, we have to tell you that we are noticing the fictional policy that we are seeing when drawing up the State's general budgets. As we have learned from the data sent by the Government to Brussels, the economic growth horizon for 2021 is being positioned around 7.2. The government comes to talk about the 10, counting on what European funds can do. We tell him that it seems to us a particularly optimistic scenario. If we listen to the Banco de España, we see that it speaks, in the worst of the scenarios, of 4%, but it is true that the growth that we are going to have in the year 2021 resembles quite the worst scenario that the Banco de España gave for this year. If we look at, for example, the pandemic situation we have at the moment and hear analysts like JP Morgan talking about that in the last quarter of this year we are going to be in zero growth, it is very difficult for us to have that growth next year, and it will make our debt ratio and deficit ratio much higher than what the Government itself is predicting, and that is something that worries us enormously, Minister. On the other hand, you were talking about how you can rationalize spending, which we took from. They've already told you, but I believe in that firmly. To begin with, of the mastodontic structure of this Government, which has proved to be absolutely useless in some of its ministries. I do not think that Spanish citizens can understand that a ministry comes to raise VAT on consumption, for example, in hospitality, transport, culture or leisure, that it does not go down to the masks and that it continues with that money by increasing a mastodontic structure of advisers and public offices that cannot be justified.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u41	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. What we are voting on here today is whether we feel that we are in an extraordinary emergency that justifies the suspension of the fiscal rules adopted in February. It is obvious that yes, and also, although not invoked, it is obvious that we are in economic recession, another cause provided for in the Constitution to adopt these measures. That is why we shall vote yes. With regard to the new macroeconomic scenario set out in the agreement of the Council of Ministers, we cannot debate the figures put forward here today, but for the time being it is good that they are possible at the moment and I hope they will not be worse. What is important is that they serve Europe, that they serve the autonomous communities and also the municipalities, which they lack; we have already seen and demanded to the full in recent months. There will be another time to talk about the specific budget items and, in our particular case, the RCP, to demand that the commitments to Cantabria be fulfilled. The Government can be sure that we will be firm, but reasonable and understanding of the state as a whole, as it has always been. Just add that the most important thing, rather than the amounts themselves, is the execution, spending well, especially on investments for the present and for the future; of course there will be urgent expenses that will have to be done temporarily, but it should not be incurred in expenses that compromise the future. It seems that almost all the groups present are coincident in this realism, so, Minister, you will not have much problem to be realistic and pragmatic in the coming months.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. You have the floor, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. I begin by recalling that Foro rejected the reform of article 135 of the Constitution, after which PSOE once again parapets to justify this Copernican and traumatic turn in the economy of Spain which, with pandemic or without pandemic, always breaks - what a coincidence - when the Socialist Party is at the head of the government. Almost all the economic emergencies we have suffered in recent decades have come from the hand of an irresponsible policy that fails, leaves instability and the bitter consequences of its calamitous management to society. Mrs Montero, you from Moncloa are taking our economy to a halt because with the abolition of fiscal and budgetary rules, the Council of Ministers renounces a disciplined administration of public resources in exchange for firing our liabilities and endorsing the Spaniards of the present and those of the future. Indebtedness means regression, poverty and ruin, and it is the method that resolves the non-compliances of the bad rulers, but the tortuous, difficult and painful path remains for the citizens. In the interest of the general interest to which you had previously appealed, I shall vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u45	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. Finally, Mr Gimeno has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u46	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will support the communication, but I must admit that we are concerned about the exit model of the crisis that some experts and, in particular, the International Monetary Fund are reflecting. They, in the face of the asymmetric V output you mentioned, speak of a possible K-shaped output, K-kilometre, which indicates that the richest countries come out of the crises better - the letter stick up - and strengthen their economy, while the poorest come out impoverished and worsen their current situation; that this duality is also replicated at the social level within the societies of the poorest countries, the differences between the social groups, the poorest come out poorer, get out impoverished and the richest are strengthened their economic position, and this duality also reproduces at the territorial level. Therefore, we fear that if these projections are met, the economic gap perceived by all and generating inequality between the most developed Spain and rural Spain will make the survival of many of the territories of emptied Spain impossible. That is why the economic effort to be made must serve to face the future by learning from mistakes and correcting the course that makes us a more fragile country in many respects, including internal cohesion and territorial balance. The new budget, with the funds coming from the European Union, is a unique opportunity to resolve the territorial imbalance that our country is suffering. We can't miss it. I want to finish with a few words from Winston Churchill: Improving is changing, so to be perfect you have to have changed often. Ladies and gentlemen, this change in Spain must now be to have a better country in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u48	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also say my first words to add to the condolences extended by the spokesman for Citizens by our colleague Rafael Herrera Gil, deputy for Seville in the IX Legislature, who died yesterday. Our most meaningful memory and support to all your family members. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the vote we are about to take today has no room for interpretation. We are asked whether we appreciate that Spain is suffering from an extraordinary emergency or not and, of course, there is no doubt about it. Socialists appreciate that this is the case and it is also necessary to declare it in order to be able to continue to provide solutions and answers to people. But, Mrs Rodríguez, the Constitution is clear and we comply with it today; there is no doubt. Do you really, gentlemen of the People's Party, have any doubts about supporting today what we are going to vote for? Of course, former Minister Montoro made it clear, even in September he said that tax rules made no sense at a time like the present. It is therefore true that the assessment we make today is simple, yes, but it is important and effective in the face of a complex and adverse situation, because it represents an institutional declaration that reflects the economic reality of our country, which, as I said, complies with Spanish and European legislation and is indeed in line with the recommendations of all European and international bodies to avoid premature fiscal adjustment at a time of fragility. It is also an appreciation shared by the Council for Fiscal and Financial Policy and by the National Commission for Local Administration, endorsed by the AIReF and, most importantly, it is likely to be approved by a large majority of the House, thus launching a message of trust and security to Spanish society and our investors. That is why the Socialist Group will, of course, vote yes, because it appreciates and declares that there is a health emergency, as in the vast majority of European countries, which is now beyond the control of their governments. A global crisis that is not exclusive to Spain or the European countries and that affects the most essential areas of people's own lives. Ladies and gentlemen, don't you see? Repuntes are being generalized and dizzying throughout Europe, and in Spain as well. What is happening in France and Belgium is also the fault of the Socialists and the Government of Spain? The only thing that seems to be exclusive here is to have an opportunistic, unscrupulous right that uses the coronavirus and human misfortunes to wear down the government and try to earn political revenue. Today, with their interventions, some have demonstrated it again, also generating doubts. Look, you're the ones who generate the most uncertainty in this country, I have it very clearly. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the important assistance articulated by the Spanish Government and the European institutions to help alleviate the harmful effects of this crisis, to avoid contagion, to cure the sick, to protect jobs, to help the self-employed, to prevent the disappearance of companies - all this has been a priority - is undeniable, in short, to protect lives in their broadest sense. It is a huge content that we must recognise and that we must share this whole House. Ladies and gentlemen, a mobilisation of more than EUR 200 billion in very short time is neither lukewarm nor late. And let some here talk that this is like a party, it seems to me at least ridiculous, because all the efforts that are being made are to serve people and are necessary. Intense support which, of course, impacts on the financial situation of the public accounts and is essential to activate the safeguard clause on the part of Europe. An instrument that is the result of the change of strategy in addressing the crisis, opting for flexibility in the face of the rigidity and austerity proclaimed in previous crises. Therefore, of course it is important to activate this clause! And the statement we make today is more necessary than ever, because, if this House does not appreciate that we are in extraordinary emergency, all the Government's efforts to obtain extraordinary resources and to make our rules more flexible in the face of adversity will be ineffective. Because, although budgetary efforts are being decided and unprecedented to date, we cannot yet consider the health crisis and its effects on the economy and society as a whole to be over; indeed, the available data for the third quarter are advancing a progressive recovery in the form of an asymmetric V, but it is very much conditioned to the health uncertainty and the unequal impact that it can have on the various areas of the country, so we must maintain a fiscal policy aimed at considering economic recovery throughout the territory. This is why, in the light of the communication by the European Commission in September of the new activation of the safeguard clause for 2021, it is right now that we enable our own national escape clause, as provided for in our legal order, which requires the absolute majority of Congress. With its activation, the budgetary stability framework that we discussed in February for all public administrations and each of their sectors has been exceeded; therefore, it also exceeds the rules of expenditure and therefore also allows for the use of accumulated remnants. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, today we also comply with the municipalities. Aren't you going to comply with the city halls? We should vote unanimously throughout the House on this agreement that the Government brings to us and on this assessment that we must make today, as the Spanish Constitution tells us. But, as the Minister of Finance has pointed out, this situation does not mean giving up stability or renouncing our commitment to medium-term fiscal consolidation. Hence, on 5 October, recommendations were made to the communities and municipalities of reference rates or guidelines for the preparation of budgets of the various administrations. You are ruling in some municipalities, you are also ruling in autonomous communities, what happens, you don't trust your governments? Is that it? Are those the doubts you have? Look, ensuring the medium-term accountability of public accounts is an essential objective for those of us who advocate the viability of a State that wants to advance in equality, social justice and territorial and social cohesion. They will therefore agree with me that, in order to rebalance the financial accounts, it is essential to reactivate the economy, and the President of the Government has already presented the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, the development of which will include all the requirements and recommendations of the competent authorities; a plan to enable the rapid reconstruction of the economy. I conclude by encouraging you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote for all of us today, because this will help to give greater fiscal space not to the Government, but to all of our public administrations, to deal with the pandemic that is haunting us, and will help to improve confidence in our resilience as a country. I encourage you to vote yes, because if we want to, we can. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in four minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have already cast their votes telematically cannot do so again from their seats. Thank you very much. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us put to the vote the Government's request that it be appreciated that Spain is suffering a pandemic, which is an extraordinary emergency situation, for the purposes provided for in articles 135.4 of the Constitution and 11.3 of the Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 109 plus 238 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 79 plus 129 telematics votes, 208; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 30 plus 108 telematics votes, 138.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-20-CD201020.u50	Accordingly, the application was approved. [[Applauds]] The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was six and ten minutes in the afternoon.
