ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's resume the session. We continue with the speaking times of the parliamentary groups and the speeches will be put to the vote, which, as you know, will be made public by appeal, in accordance with Rules 85 and 86 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Egun on. Good morning. Mr Sánchez, allow me first of all to remind you of some of the ideas I put forward at the previous investiture session and also to point out some of the things that have happened since then until today. We said that in the historical moment of generalized crisis that we are experiencing these took on a special significance in the Spanish State, and we referred in particular to the structural crisis of the monarchic regime designed in 1978, the one that was born lashed by the all tied and well bound that left for history the dictator Franco. This has not changed, it is a structural problem. The fact that four elections have been called in just four years is just one of its many symptoms, because it is not that there is a regime crisis because elections are repeated, it is just the opposite: elections are repeated because there is a serious regime crisis. You, Mr Sánchez, are aware of this crisis, all of us, and the last electoral repetition you addressed to us had one objective: to try to form a government that did not depend on the independent left or on sovereignism. In fact, you made permanent and explicit winks to the right to allow you to rule under the common umbrella of a joint defense of the social and political model of the Transition. Even today some old glories of his party warn him that that would be the right way, because what was behind that goal had and has a strategic character: it is about trying to support the old regime without going into question it. Simply put, it was intended to avoid the need to address the agenda of the independence of the Spanish State as a whole, which calls into question the keys to the constitutional design of 1978. Giving the old regime a new coat of varnish; that was the unconfessed goal that concealed the new electoral call. Summarized in a concept, catapardism, change something so that nothing changes and everything stays the way it was. We are convinced that this was the initial bet and we maintain the prevention that the passage of time can lead you to that Lampedusian path. As I say, we have no doubt that this was the original bet. But, paradoxes of history, the old nations of Euskal Herria, Catalonia and Galicia once again demonstrated that this calculation erred not only in sociological terms - because, yes, we voted differently - but that their miscalculation was evident above all in political terms. The strength I represent, Euskal Herria Bildu, has increased in votes and seats and the nations of the State have maintained or increased the independence and progressive vote. And today, Mr Sánchez, the paradox is that you cannot form a government without the help of the sovereignist left; otherwise stated, there is no advanced democratic model for the state without the independenceists. And this is the great paradox: you did not want to depend on the independenceist lefts and the result has been that that is not possible, except if you go to a government at the hands of the extreme right, so I would like you to take into account this finding: without our votes and without meeting the demands of our nations there are no governments of progress. And I add another consideration: without applying the democratizing agenda of sovereignism it will not break with the legacy of the dictator you pulled out of the Valley of the Fallen last October. By the way, just as at the previous investiture session I blamed them for not having done so yet, we now congratulate them on having carried it out. The point is that the paradox I am referring to returns us again to the beginning, to the crisis of the regime inaugurated in 1978, which remains so far. For those of you who don't know, I'll tell you that at Euskal Herria Bildu we cohabited political sectors that we held absolutely different positions with regard to the assessment that was made on the transition. In Euskal Herria Bildu is the first lehendakari that launched the autonomy of the three territories of the Basque Autonomous Community, the Navarro Carlos Garaikoetxea, and are also represented the sectors that at that time denounced the Transition as a fraud contrary to the democratic rupture that was considered indispensable. Today, many political, economic, trade union and social sectors share the idea that this transition did not establish a truly democratic model. This idea is increasingly shared in the Spanish state and in Euskal Herria and Catalonia is overwhelmingly overwhelming, because that model transition that turned fascists into democrats overnight, in addition to supporting a pact of impunity for the police, military, judicial and economic elements that held the franchise, was built on two fundamental axes: the indissoluble unity of Spain and the market economy and private property. [[rumors]] Today both pillars are going through a deep crisis: the economic and financial crisis, with a low competitiveness of the State's productive model and a political class serving the interests of the economic elites who have called into question the economic and social model for large popular sectors, and, on the other hand, the territorial crisis, in which the Catalan independenceist offensive has led to a dead end the autonomous territorial model, which does not recognize the plurinationality and the right of self-determination of the old nations without a State. Without the resolution in democratic terms of both issues, it is not possible to solve the structural problems of the Transition, and the old struggle — authoritarianism or democracy — reappears in this situation. While it is true that the rise of authoritarianism runs all over the planet and capitalism advances the idea of managing the crisis and growing insecurity with the old authoritarian prescriptions, it is evident that this planetary impulse has its own characteristics, and we focus on the Spanish State, a State in which there is a very rooted culture of applying authoritarian prescriptions to political problems, which in Euskal Herria we first know govern some or others. The speech that King Philip VI delivered on 3 October 2017 on the occasion of the Catalan referendum was one of his most evident expressions. [[Several Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group: Long live! Long live!-Mr. Salvá Verd: Killers!-Protests]] The monarch made a clear appeal...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the speaker. [[Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this House we are going to preserve freedom of expression. [[Protests]] I'm asking for silence, please. I'm asking for silence. [[Mr. Casado Blanco: A respect for the head of state!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u4	The monarch clearly called for the formation of a political and media bloc capable of deepening the authoritarian counter-reform. We do not call ourselves to deception, that will remains intact and expresses itself with a very defined political agenda: in the face of self-determination, article 155; in the face of feminism, patriarchy; in the face of plurinationality, one and a great; in the face of independence, repression and illegalization; in the face of equality, injustice and class contempt. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group and the Republican Parliamentary Group]] And no, we're not wrong, this is the agenda that the three right-wings share without nuances, which in the background are so equal to each other that they could form a Russian matrioska. [[Mr. Casado Blanco: To those who were killed!-Protests]] Or does anyone believe that there are substantial differences between the three right-wing parties in the defence of the two pillars of the Transition that I have cited or in the counter-reform agenda that they intend to establish? That is why it is essential not to be mistaken, because this impulse runs through all the structures of the State, from the IBEX 35 to the Armed and Police Forces, through the judiciary and other administrative bodies, which this week has disabled the legitimate representatives of the Catalan people Quim Torra and Oriol Junqueras, against the will of the majority citizen and the European courts. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group and the Republican Parliamentary Group]] And let us not be mistaken, because it also seems that among the socialist ranks there are those who would be more comfortable in this counter-reform account than in the widening of democracy. So, indeed, Mr Sánchez, the challenge is complicated and complex, and at the same time it is as fundamental as everything that concerns questions of principle: democracy or involution, self-determination or 155, plurinationality or one and a great, equality or inequality, feminism or machism, people and peoples or oligarchic elites. And, of course, at this time let's not overlook something that is more than a detail and that you already quoted during your speech yesterday. The executive that is expected to preside will be the first left-wing coalition government from the Second Spanish Republic. Mr Sánchez, I recognize that in your speech we see a change in attitude both in content and in the forms you spoke about in July in this Chamber. Yesterday we heard from his mouth that there is not a single way of feeling, that feelings are not imposed, and we share it. You repeated the word respect several times, spoke of leaving behind the judicial drift and spoke of the political nature of territorial conflicts, and most importantly: you stressed that the law alone is not enough to resolve these conflicts. It may surprise you, but, honestly, I tell you that we share much of these thoughts, fundamentally... tranquility. ... [[Protests]] mainly those relating to the social sphere and the recovery of rights and freedoms that have been lost over the last decade, and I would like to trust that this commitment to politics, dialogue, recognition of differences and respect for capital letters is sincere. We hope that good words will be translated into deeds, because we will measure decisions, not intentions or words. It would mean that you have begun to understand what the Basques and Basques have been trying to explain for decades: that we want respect for what we are and what we feel, that there is a way for political conflicts to be resolved with more politics and more democracy. [[One Member: ETA!-Mr Olona Choclán: You are still abducting!-Other Members: And killing!-Mr Casado Blanco makes gestures to Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon telling him to listen.-Rumores]] If this is the path you want to take, if that will becomes facts and does not remain a mere discourse, Euskal Herria Bildu will not be an obstacle to progress. However, we also do not fall into the naivety of thinking that these intentions in themselves already involve changes in the way in which we deal with the serious problems I have mentioned. Moreover, we are skeptical of the real will and capacity of the future Government to deal with them with genuinely democratic solutions. The Basques and the Basques have been for many years, a long time, appealing to us as nations that we are to exercise our right to decide. We have even been waiting for decades for the State - whoever is in government - to comply with the pacts it is signing. Today, forty years later, a statute has not yet been completed - I remind you that it was approved as an organic law - which was also endorsed by the citizenship of three of our four historical territories in southern Euskal Herria and that the improvement of the court was never submitted to consultation between the citizens of Navarre. It seems that Spain is always afraid of the ballot box. And in this sense it is also appropriate to recall here that the majority of Basque society did not support the Spanish Constitution. That is why we say that it is not enough with appearance, that it is not enough with aesthetics, that it is not enough with a historical halo that reminds us of the Popular Front and that it will not suffice with mere possibilities. It is the facts that will speak for you, just as the facts will speak for us and for us. [[Rumors]] It is certainly a historic moment that demands height of sight, responsibility, flight from haste and anxiety, but without a hint of doubt; it also requires the necessary doses of ambition and boldness to enable a truly popular and anti-oligarchic democratic program, because, now, to want is power; now, if you want, you can, and, if you really want, you can do it. And today I also want to address the compañeras and compañeras of the United Nations Podemos, and I want to do so recalling the invitation that Arnaldo Otegi, so quoted yesterday also in this Chamber... [[Several Members: Assassins! Terrorists!-Sir Spiny of the Mounts of Simon: What a shame! - Protests.]] I want to do so, recalling the invitation that Arnaldo Otegi, as he said, so quoted and acclaimed in this Chamber,...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u6	...made them free after more than six unjust years in prison. [[Mr Casado Blanco: Mr Sánchez, listen!-A Member of Parliament: Terrorists!- Rumors]] I see you haven't taken Joan Baldoví's advice to take a lime this morning. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group and the Republican Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u7	I beg your silence, please. [[Protests]] I pray silently.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u8	Otegui told them - I'm referring to United We can right now - [[A Member of Parliament: Forgive me!-Another Member of Parliament: Terrorist!-Another Member of Parliament: They have their hands stained!-Another Member of Parliament: If this Chamber is consenting to this speech, what a shame!-Another Member of Parliament: These are the other partners.-Mr Casado Blanco: Apology of terrorism!-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us continue the debate on investiture. [[Protests.-Mr.Major Perales: This with Ana Pastor was not happening!]] Ladies and gentlemen, freedom of expression is one of the foundations of our Constitution and political pluralism one of the highest values of the legal system. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u10	Thank you, President. Otegui told them that if a historic opportunity arose for the Spanish State to democratize and move towards a just and equal society, the independenceist left would be willing to cooperate. [[A Member of Parliament: Terrorist!- Mr Espinosa de los Monteros Simon and Mrs Olona Choclán show the palms of their hands]] [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros Simon: I would be ashamed of myself!]] [[A lady MP: My mother!]] But, likewise, he also invited you to join, if not possible, the democratizing processes of our nations for the same purpose. Today, by appealing to your founding principles to challenge the 78's regime, open the lock of the Transition and defend the right to decide, we again reach out to you to advance both objectives, because there is no possible alternative construction since the resignation either here or in Euskal Herria. So, Mr Sánchez, we say it clearly: with our abstention, what we do is open a window of opportunity. Believe me if we tell them that from Euskal Herria Bildu we will not close this window and be patient. But, at the same time, we will be demanding: either a real democratizing agenda is being addressed or they will not have our support. And at this point I can proudly say that one of Euskal Herria Bildu's identifying values is credibility. [[Protests]] We do what we say and we say what we do. We act responsibly and owe it to our country and its people. But we will also always be in the defense of the rights of the popular classes of the state and we will support social progress that will improve their lives. And as we have been demonstrating with facts, we will act responsibly. [[Mrs. Olano Choclán: What a shame!]] I remind your Socialist Party gentlemen that Euskal Herria Bildu has made it possible for Maria Chivite to preside over the government in Navarre; that Euskal Herria Bildu has made it possible for you, Mr Sánchez, to carry out the social decrees, with measures to protect against job insecurity, long-term unemployment subsidies or the extension of paternity leave, among others, and, in the same way, we will be the most responsible, but also - I warn you - the most demanding. [[protests.- Rumours]] We will therefore help to open the window of opportunity with our position not to hinder this Government, but it is a window to enable a real change, a change in depth. We are independentists, and since independence we have put forward an agenda for democratization that has been endorsed by the citizens of our country, making us grow both in number of votes and in seats in this Chamber, in which we have a parliamentary group for the first time in history, and we are the only abertzale force with representation in the four territories of southern Euskal Herria. It is our country that stimulates us, it is the defense of our country, our culture and our language that motivates us to come here to defend our agenda, which is not a party agenda, but a country agenda, shared by the social, trade union and popular majority of our people. Euskal Herria has been the spearhead of feminist demands, which have been overflowing the streets for years; of young people, who call for a future without precariousness or exploitation; of workers, who fight for decent jobs, or of the demands of pensioners, who every Monday, without rest for more than two years, demand dignity for their lives. We owe all of them to us, because, yes, we are independent, but we are also in solidarity with the popular classes of the rest of the State, and therefore our agenda, which is also in defense of the interests of the workers of the State, includes the reversal of all the cuts that have taken place in the social, labor or freedoms of the last few years; an agenda that, from dialogue and agreement, respects the plurinational character of the State and the right of its old nations to decide freely their future, and an agenda for peace and coexistence, which also involves a change in prison policy, that the adjustment to legality and the definitive redemption of exceptionality and revenge in which they have installed it, because for coexistence it is also necessary to end the dispersion and remoteness of Basque prisoners and prisoners; a departure that was launched after a political decision and that today, in addition to being an inappropriate anachrony with the situation that is lived in Basque Herria, is an injustice of extreme cruelty. [[a Member: What peace?]] [[protests]] [[rumors]] [[Protests.-Rumores.-A honourable Member: Take note!]] [[Protests.-Several Members: Where are the dead? And the dead what?]] Within a few days, Bilbao and Bayona will once again bring together tens of thousands of people who will demand an end to this human rights violation. [[Rumors]] I hope this is the last time this annual appointment is called. Mr Sánchez, for all these reasons, and with all the nuances I have pointed out, also in line with our commitment to close the step to the right, with our active abstention we will facilitate your investiture. We hope you will be aware of the dimension and historic task ahead. And I repeat again: if they want to democratize the State, respect its multi-national character, respect the right to self-determination and distribute wealth, we will be on their side, but if what is intended to be done is a washing up of the regime of 78, they will simply face us. And I'm done, I'm done with one last thought... [[A Member of Parliament: Finish, finish now!- Rumours]] More lime for the seats upstairs, I think. You and your Government are the last opportunity for the State to demonstrate that it is possible to resolve the Basque, Catalan and Galician national question democratically. [[Mrs. Olona Choclán: Aizpurua, live the Civil Guard and the National Police!-Various Members of Parliament: Long live!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u12	And we say... [[Mrs Olona Choclán utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u14	And we say it with serenity, without affectation, but with all conviction. You're the last train to the last station. Don't let the opportunity pass. Eskerrik asko. [[Several Members: Out! Get out! Out!-Applause from the Members of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group and the Republican Parliamentary Group, stand up.- A Member: Long live Spain!- Various Members: Long live!- A Member: Long live the King!- Various Members: Long live!- Mrs Montero Gil: Long live democracy!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u16	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. Mrs Aizpurua, you have made an intervention where you have started talking about the crisis; you have also spoken about the crisis of the regime that you called the regime of 78 and you have focused it above all on the territorial issue; and you have finally ended up talking about the Basque agenda with some of the traditional considerations that your political formation has defended. I too would like to follow the order in the response to your intervention in order to try to respond to some of the considerations you have made in yours. With regard to the crisis, it is clear that it is not only in our country but that Europe, including the world, is suffering from a crisis. In my first speech yesterday morning I said that we are actually experiencing a technological, digital revolution, which is having a very clear impact not only on the education system of our children, but also in the context of the labour and economic market. A crisis and revolution linked to climate change, with the ecological transition, which also affects the Basque Country in the field of industry. A crisis and a revolution that also has a lot to do with inequality, with the feeling of so many popular classes, as you call it, of the workers who see how the distribution of wealth is increasingly unfair, at the national level, but certainly also at the supranational level; or crises that have to do with migrations, which not only affect autonomous communities in the Mediterranean or in the Levant, but are also affecting autonomous communities in northern Spain, not to say in other parts of Europe like the Basque Country. This is not the first time I have spoken with the Lehendakari and also with the representatives of the Basque Nationalist Party about the urgency of responding from the State and from Europe to unaccompanied foreign minors as a reality of that cruel, harsh migration, which effectively has climate change or inequality in the countries of origin. What do I mean by all this? So something I said in the first of my interventions: that to this kind of challenges, which are global, we can give them an effective response or an answer that obeys parameters and axes very different from the 20th or 19th century. I believe that we are at the time of interdependence, we are not at the time of independence; we are at the time of interdependence, that is to say, at the time when we have to complement sovereignty because if not, we will not be able to respond effectively, and above all and above all to the political forces of the just left, to these new realities. Why am I saying this? For fortunately, if you have the opportunity to travel outside Spain you can look at it with other perspectives, with other eyes; fortunately in Spain there is a broad layer of citizens who, regardless of whether they vote for different progressive forces, vote for progressive. [[rumors]] Here, and in fact I claimed it yesterday, the Socialist and United Party We can add one hundred and fifty-five seats; the People's Party, the ultra-right and Citizens make up less than one hundred and fifty-five seats. It is clear that we do not reach the one hundred and seventy-six seats that are required, for example, so that the investiture in a first vote can be achieved as is the case today. But it is also clear that in a Parliament as fragmented as we have, one hundred and fifty-five seats plus other seats - more country, compromises and so many that have been claimed and aligned with the investiture - we have a starting point to give an approach, not from the point of view of parliamentary arithmetic, but to give a progressive political approach to many of these challenges at the state level. The Government of Spain and my person when I travel to Brussels, when I speak to the rest of the European leaders, it is precisely what we are defending that supranational space that recognizes that interdependence, that complementarity of sovereignty and that, among other things, builds that federal Europe that we need to respond to many of these challenges to which you have referred. [[rumors]] Challenges that have to do with identity, for example. I must remind you that not only in Europe but in the world there are fewer States than nations, there are no nations that feel like such and that inexorably lead them to have an independent State. There are nations that feel identified in States as can happen in other parts of the world, right? A federal Europe that logically - as I claimed in my first intervention - builds up that social pillar emanating from the Gothenburg summit or a Europe - as I said, for example, in my first intervention - that will continue to build and complete the euro area. Because we clearly saw after the 2008 crisis that Europe still had a lot to do in the area of monetary union, not only in monetary policy but also in budgetary policy. Here, for example, the minister of the economy in office has been in all the European Councils linked with the economic ministers defending an insurance for European unemployment complementary to national unemployment protections. [[Rumors]] We have also been defending a euro area budget that acts as a fiscal policy, precisely in order to complement monetary policy, which is very important in the economic context that we have right now. In short, we are not talking about abstractions, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about whether we want to respond effectively and above all and above all equally to many of the challenges ahead, to many of the revolutions ahead that are going to define whether societies are winners or losers, it is clear that we need to strengthen supranational projects such as the European project. And that we have to do it on pretty obvious, pretty rational premises. And it is that - I insist - in the world in which we live, in the global world in which we live, where we have challenges that do not obey borders but are common - because it is the same thing today to talk about immigration in Spain as in Germany or Austria; it is the same thing to talk about climate change in the United Kingdom, France or Spain; or it is undoubtedly the same thing to talk about inequality in Portugal, Italy or Spain - we have to talk about interdependence, we have to talk about complementarity of sovereignty and not fracture those sovereigntys that would make each and every Member State or society - depending on each and every one how he feels and identifies himself - much weaker. That is why I have to tell you that I do not share your view that Spain is experiencing a systemic crisis. Spain is also experiencing a crisis arising from belonging to a European project that needs to be redefined in a global world, a world in which we have superpowers on the other side of the Atlantic - also in Asia - who are defining and redistributing the power that the United States and the European Union had traditionally had. And in this context of uncertainty and disconcertingness, which also lives a Europe that has always looked outside, looked more closely at its navel and tried to interpret the world from a Eurocentric point of view, Spain logically does not abstract itself from that difficulty and from that crisis. Undoubtedly, what I can assure you is that fortunately in Spain - and here are the seats of the Socialist Party and also of the United Nations We can - there is a progressive majority that wants these challenges to be answered with ideas and with progressive and non-reactionary values as we are seeing in the right and in the far right. [[Applauds]] Please note that yesterday, both in the first part of my speech and in the last part of my speech, I linked the tenth objective of this progressive coalition - which I hope will have the majority confidence in the House from next Tuesday - to the development and strengthening of the European project to the development of the autonomous state. Because, of course, when we talk about sharing sovereignty we are talking about this, working as a team, by using in some way the simile that Mr Esteban used yesterday in his speech. Working as a team, because indeed if we can work together in response to such challenges, I believe we will do so more effectively and equitably. What is the problem with our autonomous state? Forty years later I believe that we have accumulated enough experience to know that there are elements of that autonomous state that have been worn out and that need to be reviewed, that need to be updated. The Socialist Party has been saying this for over fifteen years, he said at various congresses. He has said this and has translated it into various resolutions, in the Barcelona Declaration and in the Granada Declaration, made, by the way, by two different secretaries general, Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba the Granada Declaration and in my case the Barcelona Declaration. In that regard, what are the fundamental elements of the reflections and proposals that we have made from the Socialist Party and that we also put to the right when it was ruling and we were in the opposition? That, of course, if the Constitution of 78 has a fundamental historical right - now that we are talking so much about history - it is to know that the process of democratization and the settlement of democracy in our country is intrinsically linked to the process of decentralization in Spain, that is to say, to the recognition of the territorial diversity of our country. This was recognized in article 2 of the Spanish Constitution. Moreover, here in this House yesterday I referred to the constituent debates, and they also appear in the Journals of Sessions debates in defence of self-determination that various parliamentary groups made. This was discussed here and democratically the vote was contrary to that right to self-determination. And - I have said this on many occasions, not only because of a constitutional or legal issue, but because of a question of political conviction and the conception of society - I understand that if the State has to recognize its territorial diversity, those people who identify, as is their case, for example, Euskadi with a nation, will also have to understand that these societies are plural societies, they are not uniform societies. As I said yesterday to the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party, we, who are a government that aspires to comply with most of the outstanding transfers of the Statute of Gernika and we are also participating - in this case the Basque Socialist Party - in the debates on the renewal of that statute, have said clearly: we believe that the correctness of that status and the correctness that it can have - and in that sense I also appeal to its responsibility - is that of being aware that Basque society is a plural society and, therefore, we cannot help but differentiate between which are the good Basques and which are the bad Basques according to their affinity or according to their alignment with the national sentiments that may have different political forces. [[rumors]] I think that is the key that you will also have to solve, but if we look back on the forty years of democracy, the forty years of the Spanish Constitution, I believe that the autonomous state, Title VIII of our Constitution, have been magnificent instruments for various things. First, to establish democracy in Spain; second, to homologate Spanish democracy with democracies that can somehow have plural feelings and identities as they can have other European democracies - and I look, for example, at Germany or so many democracies on our continent - and third, without a doubt, to better express those feelings to which you have referred from this rostrum in an autonomous Spain, in a definitive federal Spain to build and contribute to a Europe that inevitably if it wants to survive and wants to be transcendent in the global world of the twenty-first century will also have to be federal. That is, we will have to share sovereignty, and share sovereignty is not only to do it down but also up. [[Rumors]] In that sense, what we are defending is what we are defending, we are defending that autonomous state. I understand that you do not like that autonomous state; we defend that autonomous state and we are going to be a fence in front of precisely those re-centralizing, negating and demanding velocities of a centralist state that precisely what it has brought has been at other times the deterioration of the poorest regions in our country. [[Applauds]] On the Basque agenda, as I said before, Your Honor, we have an agreement with the Basque Government, of which the Basque Socialist Party is also involved, in which we want to make the transfers that are contained in the Statute of Gernika. It is true that we have some serious, profound discrepancies in some of the elements of that statute. I am referring to the transfer of social security; there are others which, of course, are embodied in that agreement which we are going to deal with and we are going to comply with. Indeed, we are very much awaiting what is the debate and what is the resolution and agreement that can be transferred by the Basque Parliament to this House precisely to renew the Statute of Gernika. I think it can be a great opportunity if we focus precisely on those elements that are important to give an effective and equitable response to the problems of Basque citizenship. If in the end we remain alone and exclusively in the debate of the right to decide on Basque citizenship, obviously we will understand it as a failure, because we believe that there are other things much more important for Basque citizenship, a citizenship that every time it is consulted, not only with the vote but also in demoscopic studies, what it says clearly is that they feel as Basque as Spanish or as Spanish as Basque. Finally, I thank you for reaching out to all those aspects that have to do with the social agenda. Spain and Euskadi have also suffered, and a great deal, in recent years, the consequences not only of the evil done by the former Conservative Administration but also of the economic crisis. [[Rumors]] Let us hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we can move this Government forward and implement all those measures to rebuild the welfare state, social justice, freedoms, coexistence and cohesion, which I believe are very necessary for the country as a whole. [[Protests.-Applause.- A honourable Member: Long live Spain!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u17	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u18	Well, I will refer to the global crisis to which you referred at the beginning of the intervention. He has invited us to look towards Europe. It seems very good to me and I would also ask the State, the Government, to look towards Europe and to look precisely at how these situations are resolved in Europe; to look towards Scotland, towards the Faroe Islands, because there are models of resolution of territorial conflicts that are otherwise clarified in Europe precisely. On the economic issue, there is indeed a global crisis that is caused by the fact that there are Governments of limited effectiveness which have their effectiveness limited by the dictates of transnationals acting against individuals and peoples, too. As Yayo Herrero says, there is no economy or technology or politics without the nature and care of it, without the environment and without care. At another time in his speech he referred to the issue of migration and, since he mentioned it, we also encourage them to never turn their backs on migrants or obstruct the work of ships such as the Aita Mari or the Open Arms, which travel through the Mediterranean. With regard to the territorial issue, to put an end to the last thing you have commented, I think you have said that in Basque society there is an immense majority that feels comfortable Spanish and Basque, that feels as Spanish as Basque or backwards. If this is true, there is no problem, of course we also know that Basque society is plural, but to clarify this, what could be better than giving the right to decide, that people decide and express through the ballot box what they want to be? That is ultimately what we are asking for, that it is nothing complicated and that, as I said earlier, it is being done elsewhere, in Europe. It would be very good to implement this tradition also in the Spanish State because, in the end, the disjunctive that is marked here, even if it is not said, is the constitutional issue. If we really want to give a real solution to the territorial question, the disjunctive will always be between democracy and legality. And in this disjunctive, in which the Spanish Constitution is always placed as a ceiling, let me tell you that between democracy and reality what must always prevail is democracy, even before the most perfect of the constitutions of the world and planetary order, and I doubt very much that, moreover, the Spanish Constitution is that case. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u19	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u20	The right to decide is also a requirement of Basque society, of a majority, in addition to Basque society, and I think it should be faced with it; because, and I say it clearly, autonomy is not a solution, that path is already exhausted and it would be wise not to waste time on truths that do not lead anywhere. I have previously commented that boldness is needed and, moreover, the right - you see - will try to close the way to any movement, to any progress, social or political, that is done, however timid it is, and will do so with the same scream that they are doing now. In fact, in two days I think they have exhausted all the possible scripts of the films that may be out there that they are chasing to cause fear, terror and alarm, and I don't think they will be able to raise the tone much more already. [[protests]] [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u21	Ladies! Wait a minute, Mrs. Aizpurua. Political positions are defended in Parliament by the word, not by shouting or insulting. [[Protests]] Please, be quiet. I ask you to remain silent and allow us to continue the debate. [[A Member: Condemning terrorism, man!]] Ladies and gentlemen, each parliamentary group has had its time to defend its political position. [[Protests.-A lady MP: Lie, it sounds like a lie!]] Will you please stop yelling? This Presidency has had to listen to a lot of statements; some absurd, some execretable, some unsustainable and even some false, but this Presidency has an obligation above any other that is mandated by the Constitution, by the Constitutional Court and by the European Court of Human Rights, which is to guarantee the freedom of expression recognized in our constitutional text. [[a Member of Parliament: Man!]] [[Applauds.-Protests]] I ask you, please, to apply the same respect for the constitutional precept of freedom of expression and to use your turns to defend your political positions through the word. [[Mrs Álvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos calls for the floor]] Mrs Alvarez de Toledo, we are in the middle of an intervention with a speaker in the rostrum. [[Let's give him the floor, it's a point of order!]] I will give you the floor when we conclude this speaking time with this parliamentary group. [[A Member: You have to call the order!]] I will give you the floor when this speaking time is over and the debate with this parliamentary group is closed. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u22	Well, it said that the Constitution, which is the top that is often set to address the territorial problem, cannot be a prison of peoples. The Constitution is a law and the laws are made by people. The Constitution does not have a sacred halo that makes it immutable and that is immutable throughout time, as every law must conform to the demands of society. I will give you the reason, I think you have said, that it is not only about winning the investiture, of course not; it is about much more than that, it is about knowing how it will be prevented throughout the entire legislature from the right taking us back forty years. That is what has to be faced and it is true that this country needs large doses of anti-fascist pedagogy because Francoism has for many years chiseled too many mental absolutisms. [[A Member: And ETA?]] Antifascist pedagogy necessary that will have to be modeled through dialogue using the right words and not those that are inflamed with hatred and revenge; antifascist pedagogy that through facts and attitudes will help to overthrow taboos and supposed realities that have been built over the last decades. I hope so. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Mrs Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos asked for the floor.- Rumors]] We'll finish the shift.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you, Mrs Aizpurua, have made reference to Scotland and you keep calling attention because when you talk about Scotland by independence or when you talk about other territories, one evaluates the degree of self-government of these territories, for example Scotland, and compares it with the Basque Country or Catalonia or other communities, it is clear that the Spanish Constitution of 78 recognizes by far an infinitely greater capacity for self-government in Scotland in the case of the Basque Country or also in the case of Catalonia. I know perfectly well, and I am also aware of this, that for you the autonomous state and self-government is exhausted, but not today; it is exhausted from its beginning because you have a very different conception and political project from that of the autonomous state. You defend independence logically and we have heard it in that rostrum today and on repeated occasions, but I believe that self-government recognizes, one, the State, that territorial diversity and, two, that self-government recognizes the plurality of each of those societies and I would like you to recognize the plurality of that society. When they defend the right to decide and when they say that the right to decide in Basque society has to be developed, the question is: Doesn't Basque society decide in each of the general or autonomous elections their political project and their project of coexistence? [[Mr. Matute García de Jalón makes negative gestures]] I think so, Your Honor. I believe that this is done repeatedly and repeatedly by Basque society, which has said what it has said, has said that society is plural and that there are indeed political projects that defend independence as its own, and there are political projects that defend a decentralized Spain, a Spain that recognizes all identities, such as that which can be defended by the Basque Socialist Party or the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party throughout the country. Finally, I believe that these are debates that we are going to have over the coming months and years. Of course, I have no problem with discussing the Constitution; I have never seen the Constitution as a roof or a prison and I believe that the Constitution has given the best years of development, prosperity, progress and democracy to Spanish society as a whole. I also think that it is enough to leave Spain to speak precisely to political leaders or citizens of other countries to see how they look with envy at Spain for the things that it has achieved over the past forty years and for the things that we want and aspire to achieve over the next ten years and I hope and hope that this is the majority feeling of this House, not to go back, not back to a Spain in black and white, but to a Spain that advances in rights, freedoms, prosperity in the end, equality and diversity. Of course, that is what we are going to defend from the Socialist Party project. I am grateful that you have that sensitivity to ecology, compatibility with economic development, but I would like to make some point. It is true that there has been some criticism of the Government of Spain regarding the Open Arms and also the Aita Mari, but I will tell you one thing, it seems to me that the Aita Mari the last landing did in Malta a few months ago and the Government of Spain offered to take over some of those rescued by the Aita Mari. Look what I say to you, that is what the Government of Spain does; the Government of Spain through the public company Sasemar rescues thousands of human beings a year and does not ask Europe to share those people that we rescued in the Alborán Sea, in the Strait or elsewhere in the Mediterranean, with which what I want to say with this, Your Honor, is that if something demonstrates it is precisely the solidarity of Spanish society because, despite the xenophobic and racist speeches that surround the far right, Spain is solidarity, Spain is progressive and what it wants to move forward in these areas. [[Applauds]] In any case, I must say this in order for it to appear in the Diario de Sesiones, Your Honor, I am grateful that you at least, with your abstention, facilitate the formation of a Government in Spain. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u25	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. Mrs. Aizpurua.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u26	Thank you. I'm just gonna throw a question into the air. I only want to end this way, and it is something that the Basque and Basque independenceists are not going to stop asking until we get it; I say it now. What's going on in the Spanish state? Why can't what can be done in Scotland or Quebec be done in the Spanish state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u27	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u28	Please note, Your Honor, that today is Scottish independence calling for a second referendum and the British Government is denying the holding of that second referendum in the United Kingdom. As for Canada, you just have to read, study and see what the law of clarity has been... [[Rumors]] To be aware of what limitations have been made. Have referendums been held in Canada - in Quebec in this case - for independence? Yeah. They were done from an illegal point of view, and I remember what the Prime Minister said at the time, Trudeau - that is, the father of the current Prime Minister -: you can hold all the referendums you want, but you will not allow Canada's independence. Therefore, Your Honor, on many occasions images are used in my opinion that are not in keeping with reality and truth to defend that there is a lack of democracy in our country, in contrast to other countries. I believe that we have a democracy - no doubt improved and imperfect, as are all democracies - that is homologable to all those of the developed countries in our environment, and that is also what all the international indices of recognized prestige say: Spain is among the twenty best full democracies in the world. And certainly we have to do many things, here are some elements of improving our democracy. What I am most ashamed of is having witnessed during these last seven years the cases of corruption that have scandalized Spanish public opinion. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u29	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u30	There is a lot to do in relation to democratic regeneration but, I insist, if you look at those indices, if you evaluate from an objective point of view the indices and levels of self-government they have... [[rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, please don't make me start calling you by your name.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u32	...the levels of self-government that the different territories of our country have, I think we are, by far, at levels high enough in relation to other territories of other countries. [[Mr Casado Blanco asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Candidate. Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u34	Madam President, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, you should have called Bildu's spokesman to order when you have cast disqualifications and concepts insulting the institutions of the State. [[Rumors]] You have not done so, but the most scandalous thing is that the candidate for the Presidency of the Government has not defended either the Constitution or the King of Spain or the victims of terrorism after the intervention we have heard. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u35	Mr. Married...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u36	Madam President, I have just heard the most nauseous speech I have ever heard in this Chamber. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u37	Mr. Married, you don't have an intervention shift.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u38	And it is intolerable, for the 850 victims of terrorism in Spain, for the Constitution, it is unacceptable that the incumbent President of the Government speak of a fence against the right, without accusing... [[protests]] [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u39	Mr. Married...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u40	...to ETA's heirs of their crimes, and offenses...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u41	Mr. Married, you don't have an intervention shift.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u42	... the Constitution and the institutions. It's infamous what we've been through. [[Protests.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing up and saying: Freedom, freedom, freedom!-Applause from the parliamentary groups VOX, Citizens and Mixed Navarra Suma and Forum Asturias.- Mr Bal Francés asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u43	Mr. Bal, do you want to take the floor or not?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u44	Express invocation of Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure allowing any Member to claim compliance with the Rules of Procedure. Article 103, as Mr Casado said, effectively imposes the call to order when the decorum of State institutions is lacking. [[Protests]] Mrs Aizpurua specifically said that Spain is an authoritarian country and that an expression of that authoritarianism is the speech of the head of state on October 3, 2017. [[Applauds]] Authoritarianism means being undemocratic, authoritarianism means not defending fundamental rights. Mrs. Aizpurua has called the head of the fascist state. [[Denials by Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus]] We have been cautiously waiting for the candidate for President of the Government to defend the head of State who has appointed him to form the Government. [[protests]] It has not done so, so we demand that the Presidency of this House, in compliance with the call to order, ask Mrs Aizpurua to withdraw from these demonstrations and to delete from the Journal of Sessions the allusions she has made to the head of the Spanish State. [[The applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and Mixed Navarra Suma and Forum Asturias, some standing positions.- Various Members: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, there were other times in this country when criticism was not actually allowed to either the Government or other State authorities. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Luckily, those times have passed. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, standing and saying: Freedom, freedom, freedom!- Applause of the Republican Parliamentary Group and of several Members of the Plural Parliamentary Group]] Let me finish, please. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we enjoy a full democracy, a full democracy, and precisely to guarantee... [[Mr. Echaniz Salgado: There is a regulation.-Protests by Mr. Casero Ávila]] Mr. Casaro Ávila, please. To guarantee precisely that full democracy we must guarantee freedom of expression within this House, and that is what this Presidency is going to do. [[Mr. Echaniz Salgado: No, the rules]] Thank you very much. [[Mrs Álvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos shows a copy of the Rules of Procedure]] In accordance with Rule 171.5 of the Rules of Procedure, I announce that the vote will not take place before 11.30 a.m. Next we will start with the interventions of the formations integrated in the Joint Parliamentary Group. I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Vehi Cantenys.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u46	Good morning. Since the Candidature d'Unit Popular today, despite the short time we have, we would like to analyse the political context in which the proposal for an investiture and a coalition government is given. We understand, first of all, that the situation is exceptional, and exceptionality is given in so many dimensions. The first is democracy. While in Catalonia it can cost you jail or exile to defend the independenceist political project and the right to self-determination, the Catalans voted last November 10 with 42% of the votes in favour of independence. If I am not mistaken, between the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and Podemos there are 37% of the votes, and I say this so that the percentages are compared. And according to the CEO of July 2019 that you quoted yesterday - quoted November, we quote July -, 70% of Catalans are in favour of the right to self-determination. For us this reading is the legitimacy of the democratic project in front of the legality of a State, and the summary could be the images of October 1st: voting while the State Security Forces and Bodies respond to blows and beatings. [[A honourable Member: Shame!]] Don't worry, there's still a little talk. In recent days Ómnium Cultural publishes the map of the repression of the state in Catalonia and speaks of more than 2500 people affected. Let me quickly review the retahíla: 21 persons convicted of exercising the right to vote and to protest, 9 persons exiled, more than 1000 health care on 1 October, more than 300 persons injured during the protests of the sentences of 14 October, more than 290 persons detained, 8 persons detained in pre-trial detention, 144 closed web pages and 18 teachers investigated, and today a pending government president who is disqualified by the Central Electoral Board. Exceptionality also in the violation of human rights at the southern border. The International Organization for Migration numbers some 15,000 people in the Mediterranean mass grave over the past six years. Exceptionality every time a woman is assaulted or raped, and justice, no doubt patriarchal, asks the victim how she was dressed, and the media do a show that re-judges the brave woman who dares to denounce. Exceptionality in workplaces, where hundreds of people die every year. Exceptionality when more than 16% of employed Catalan workers are on the poverty line, and when, according to data from the trade union of finance technicians, a working family pays three times more taxes than any Ibex company. Exceptionality when hate speech against women's rights is allowed in the Congress of Deputies. Exceptionality - let me tell you - when the right and the ultra-right are dedicated to systematically torpedoing the Congress of Deputies. We have already lived it in Parliament; we inform you that this has no end. Exceptionality when the extreme right is also a popular accusation in a trial against the political leaders of the Government of the Generalitat for putting ballots, and when they also mark the speech that will end up assuming until the State Law. Exceptional when COP 25 is held in Madrid for the climate and sponsors Endesa, purchase of editorials and covers included. And exceptionality above all - and Bildu's partner said - in the nature of the Spanish, police, military and judicial apparatus, other than that of the government, is true, but in charge of the management that has been made of the process in Catalonia. Dirty war in a state where names such as Commissioner Villarejo and Francisco González appear involved in businesses that come to light with droplets; where there is prize and impunity against those responsible for the violence of our people - Pérez de los Cobos, General Gonzalo, Commissioner Trapote -. If we understand correctly, yesterday you said you'd withdraw medals from the Franco police. Will he do the same with the award-winning commandos for beating up our people? [[Rumors]] We'd like to know. And exceptional when the only coup d'état that has taken place in our country has been the judicial, by the hand of the Supreme Court that has imprisoned a government, members of the Bureau of Parliament and leaders of civil movements and organizations. Where the judicial culture is tremendously authoritarian and that with the hand of Mrs Carmen Lamela, apart from the Government of the Generalitat, at the table of the Parliament and the Jordis, also imprisons the young people of Alsasua, and at the same time files the complaint to Florentino Pérez for the Castor case. And finally, by way of a prize, she has just served as judge of the Supreme Court. It is in this context that you put forward the proposal for investiture and for government, and we wanted above all to underline it: it is an exceptional political context. This proposal makes no reference to the regime of 78 as a democratic anomaly, despite the fact that the Spanish Episcopal Conference has already manifested itself; nor does it speak of putting a referendum on self-determination as a concrete mechanism for resolving the conflict. You said yesterday that you were willing to sit at a table with the Government of the Generalitat. He spoke of dialogue, he spoke of resuming and resuming the dialogue where the grievances began to accumulate - if I did not aim badly - and although we do not have time to make a retrospective of grievances we did want to move him that this is not a meaningless conflict between two parties that have forgotten why they are fighting. This goes from the right to self-determination, and the right to self-determination is not a quimera of the independenceists, it is a collective right that already recognized the Charter of the United Nations in 1950. And even though we appreciate positively that both you and Mr. Iglesias were talking about politics rather than judicializing the conflict, you also did not ensure yesterday that you will stop violence against the independence movement and against political dissent. Let us tell you that from our perspective Catalonia lives under the doctrine of shock, the one that seeks to solve by authoritarian and repressive means what cannot be solved in the ballot boxes. Nor does your proposal speak of the matrix of problems that are key to us in your ability to carry out transformative policies, and that is that European budgetary stability does not allow the majority of the proposals that you bring us today. I would now like to comment on some of the points that you have brought to us, and that from our perspective are impossible without questioning European stability. We will certainly be the only ones to talk about the government proposal that you presented to us yesterday. You spoke yesterday of labour reform, but after the headlines and reading it in detail you announce the repeal of three articles of labour reform and not of the entire labour reform. The rest remains in a focus that continues to generalize job insecurity. Our independent project is committed to labour legislation that guarantees rights and does not condemn people to wage poverty. They also talked about housing measures, one of the main political conflicts in the Spanish State and also in the Catalan countries. They talked about regular rents and that it will be in the hands of municipalities and autonomous communities to be able to decree urban areas as tensioned market areas. What we propose is that it does not serve much to decree only in certain areas, because they stop gentrification processes that are outdated, but do not stop the gentrification that stalks all urban areas, and also leave it in the hands of municipalities and autonomous communities, do not force the regulation of rent, which from our perspective is what should be done. Moreover, when they mention the rental price they speak of a price benchmark index, which is the market index, not the index of access to the right to housing. The market index is the same that drives us out of our neighborhoods and our cities. Our independent political project is committed to public housing and total price control, without distinction of areas. They also referred to the shielding of public education, but said nothing of stopping funding concerted centres. They talked about public college, but they didn't say anything about breaking the fees and making the university public and free. Our political project is committed by the university and education 100 percent public. They also talked about guaranteeing pensions, they talked about the update of the CPI and the re-edition of the Toledo Pact. However, despite the fact that they have been insecure since the mid-1990s with the same scheme, they never proposed that all pensions should be decided directly in the State budget, thus ensuring their stability. The king's salary and the military's salary are set in the budgets, but the salary of our elders depends on the CPI and its fate, depending on the working life they have had, and we already know what it means, that especially the women who have not contributed, because they have done care and household tasks, will continue to have the lowest pensions. Our political project aims to guarantee people's dignified lives, without depending on any market index. He also spoke of the European Union, promoting migration policies with secure entry routes, but they did not question detention centres, deportation policies, concertinas or the Organic Aliens Act. We understand that you are the party that approved it, but our independentist political project is committed to the right to migration without borders that covers lives. Finally, the agreement proposes that 8 May be the day of the commemoration of the victims of exile. Welcome to this day. We'll always remember. Unfortunately now and here and under different circumstances we not only remember it, but we live it and fight for the return of today's exiles from yesterday's memory. By the way, this year marks seventy - five years after the liberation of the Nazi camps. It should be remembered that Neus Català also voted on 1 October, and that the 4227 Republicans of Mauthausen until last August did not count as dead from the Civil Registry. Another oblivion of democracy. After this analysis of the investiture agreement and the coalition government that they bring us, I want to tell you that we are presenting ourselves to the elections with a very clear political agenda: amnesty for all those retaliated, self-determination and rights, not because we think it is the political project of the CUP for the breakup, that for those who do not know us advance them that we are an organization that is part of the independence movement, anti-capitalist, feminist, ecological, anti-racist, etc. Amnesty, self-determination and rights are a political framework that the CUP puts - in our opinion with overwhelming evidence - as a common meeting point for resolving the conflict. And we, our more than 240 000 votes, would be lacking if we approved a government proposal that does not go in this direction. But we are surprised that a coalition agreement such as the one we are discussing today, which calls itself left-wing and transformative - and we really appreciate some of its measures - does not make any reference to self-determination as a form of solution to the conflict, as is understood from the progressive doctrines of international law. But what worries us most is that either you are naive or you are deceiving the citizenry, and let us explain. The left-wing political programme that we are faced with is not viable with point 10.7 of its agreement: the budgetary stability of the European Union. The dictatorship of the market and austerity is not done by respecting the suspense of the budgetary balance of the austereicide, and the collection they propose does not give them for so much expenditure if they respect the deficit ceiling. The second question is that the possibility of resolving the conflict democratically, as well as the measures related to the democratization of the State and the persecution of corruption and the rotating doors that you pose, are not possible without questioning the apparatuses of the Spanish State: the Spanish corrupt monarchy, and let me give the reason to the companion - who is not now, but let me give the reason -; the king, on 3 October, made an authoritarian speech and not proper to a democracy. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u47	Keep quiet, please. Keep quiet. [[A Member of Parliament: That's it!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u48	This is freedom of expression! We were talking about the monarchy, the Constitution as a legal framework that shields the possibility of the people having national sovereignty and of any kind - and we recall article 135 of the Constitution - courts that maintain the authoritarian heritage of past times, and an extreme right with a clear function of anchoring to the right this regime crisis.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u49	Mrs. Vehi, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u50	Media dedicated to the support of power and educated State security forces and bodies driven to hatred and repression against dissent. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Mrs. Vehi, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u52	Or do they think we're gonna think Villarejo was acting alone? Don't think about it. The State Security Forces and Corpses, the domes, are also part of this State apparatus, which systematically denies rights. [[Protests]] And despite not being one of the worst, better, as some have wanted to say from this stand, our analysis is that the pact that you have raised with the Republican Left of Catalonia is also not going to have a long way to go, because dialogue without questioning the regime of 78 is not going to be viable. In any case, we will be delighted to be wrong, and if the agreement is ratified by the Catalan people, we will recognise that the dialogue table has produced results. If so, do not doubt that we will, but for the moment we will maintain the mistrust that the spokesman of Esquerra Republicana also expressed yesterday. Obviously we are always on the side of dialogue and the ballot box, and beyond the bad wishes of your recent career we wish you to be right, to be right and to know how to be consistent, Mr Sánchez, with what was one day your party. Yesterday you were talking about Granada and we wanted to remind you of Suresnes and point 11 of the resolution that your party adopted in October 1974. [[rumors]] Work to recognize the right to self-determination of the Iberian peoples, because the alternative is to remain crushed by the doctrine of extending State authoritarianism to curb the democratic path at all costs. Emilio Botín, the biggest tax fraudster in Spanish tax history, said: I'm just worried about Catalonia and Podemos. Catalonia remains, because 2.3 million people defending and exercising sovereignty on 1 October would amount to 12 million Spaniards and Spaniards opposing article 135 of the Constitution. For all the reasons given so far, today we are not going to vote in favour of your proposal for an investiture and of the coalition government. Contrary to what you and some other spokesmen have not stopped repeating - which we voted as VOX or the People's Party - we have tried to expose - with the short time we had - as deeply as possible the meaning of our vote. And please do not trivialize the extreme right; please do not put us in the same sack because we run the risk of the same thing happening in Congress as in the Supreme Court: that they mark the line of discourse. Unlike some people say, we are not the 'worst, better'. On the contrary. You, Mr. Sánchez, have twice called us anti-system. Let me tell you that if being an anti-system is to be against this model of cannibal growth that deprives people of housing and work, that condemns the most humble to the chronicled misery, yes, we are anti-system, and we are proud of it. Let me also say that our political project has never been based on identity. Yesterday you were reflecting on your identity; we don't care how people feel and where people feel; for us the important thing is that our people can decide freely everything that affects their life. The CUP faces the legislature, not from the need to choose between centralizing governments,...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u53	Mrs. Vehi, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u54	Okay, I'm done. ...but to choose between the legitimacy of peoples or the authority of the State. Beyond this session of investiture and beyond not sharing a sense of vote with the majority of sovereignist and leftist forces, if we want to reach out to you, we want to meet with you against re-centralisation, for amnesty and for the freedoms of our people and of all the peoples of the Spanish State. I ended, now, with Lorca: 'There are things locked inside the walls that, if they suddenly went out into the street and shouted, would fill the world'. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that in the face of Mrs Aizpurua's ineffable speech I was forced to start in a different way than I thought, but not only because of the ineffable speech, which is of extreme gravity, but above all because of the complex, submissive and kneeling response of the President-in-Office of Spain. [[applause and rumors]] [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some from the Joint Group]] It is necessary to have swallows, Mr Sánchez, to be invested president of Spain with the votes of Bildu. We need to have swallows after what we have heard in this House. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some from the Mixed Group.-Rumores]] I'm going to tell Mrs. Aizpurua, even though she's not here now, what you should have told her and you haven't told her. What he hasn't told you is that fascism is 857 killed by the ETA terrorist gang in our country, that's fascism. [[The applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some of the Joint Group, stood up.- Several Members speak words that are not perceived.]] And what he has not told you is that in addition to these 857 murders in our country, there are many people who have been extortioned, who have lived without freedom, who have been kidnapped for defending precisely the democracy that Mrs Aizpurua is now coming to us to speak of. And I, gentlemen of Bildu, can't ask you for decency, because I know that's impossible for you, at least I ask you to be ashamed that when you come out to this rostrum there are things that at least you don't dare say. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some from the Joint Group]] If there is a political party in this House that is not democratic, it is precisely Bildu, because he has not yet had the guts to condemn so many years of suffering and terrorism. [[The applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some of the Mixed]] He has never yet gone to a parliamentary rostrum or in any medium of communication to say that murdering someone in a democracy just by thinking differently is a fact of totalitarianism. And today the fascists, those who wait at the gates of the jails with ongitorris who have killed our comrades of the People's Party, the Socialist Party and other democratic forces of Spain, know in which ranks they militate? At Bildu's. Of course, not in my game. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some of the Mixed.-A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] That is why, Mr President, if I were you, I would ask myself a question: Why does Otegi prefer me to preside over Spain? And I would do something else: I would never be president of this country if in order to be president I needed to get there with the abstention of a party like Bildu, never. [[The applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some of the Mixed.-Protests]] Just as I would never accept the Government of Navarre at Bildu's hand, as you did last August, and to some confession there is evidence, because today Bildu's spokesman in this House has said so. [[Mr. Cerdán León: You were already with HB]] The confession on the part, there's evidence left. 'I have not agreed with the independenceists, it is a lie, it is a lie; you will be able to repeat a lie a thousand times, but it is a lie, it is a fake, it is not a no and it is never a lie': Mr.Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, April 2019. 'If I had accepted the demands of Pablo Iglesias for a coalition government today I would be president of the government, but I would be a president who would not sleep, like 95% of the Spaniards': Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, September 19, 2019. Where is the one who then uttered these words? He is here, even if he now seems like another, trying to be president of Spain although for this he has had to eat each of these letters, he has had to deceive more than 40 million Spaniards and he has had to sell Spain by fascicles. [[The applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some of the Mixed]] Because the same Mr Sánchez who confessed to us in an electoral debate the insomnia that produced him a pact with Podemos now brings us to the whole of the Spaniards the nightmare of a pact against Spain, against democratic principles and against the politics of truth, which is nothing other than that which tries to improve the life of a country. It is undeniable that one cannot improve the life of a country by the hand of those who want to destroy it; it is undeniable that one cannot, Mr Sánchez. That is why I believe that no one will doubt that UPN's position in this House is going to be a no-fly to its investiture. And it is going to be because we have burned the defense of freedom, the defense of Navarre and the defense of Spain to the DNA, and in our way of doing politics, we take very seriously the firmness, frankness, honesty and loyalty that shape the character of the shipwrecks. This pact that you ask us to support today to invest you as President of the Government cannot be to defend Navarre nor can it be to defend Spain, and of course it is neither frank nor loyal, because you came to an election telling the Spaniards the opposite of what you propose today in this House. [[A Member: Liar!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some of the Mixed]] But, unfortunately, the shipwrecks this pact doesn't catch us by surprise. Last August in the Foral Parliament you did the general essay of the work that you represent here today for all of Spain; a work in which it seems that the Socialist Party is the protagonist, but in which you are only puppets whose threads run the nationalists, the independenceists, the extreme left and even Bildu, as has been perfectly credited in this session. One of your partners, the Basque Nationalist Party, signed an agreement with you this week, and I will tell you one thing, Mr Sánchez: when you want to agree on something that has to do with Navarra, do it with your legitimate representatives, with the Government of Navarra, with the Foral Parliament or with the deputies or senators we have been elected to represent them. [[a Member of Parliament: Of course!]] [[The applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some of the Mixed]] Because the pact you have signed with the PNV is an insult to Navarra and is a disrespect to its citizens, who have not chosen the PNV to represent them. But not only have we not chosen the PNV, it is that in the last general elections in Navarre they obtained 3.8% of the votes. Because the problem, Mr Sánchez, is not competition; the problem is with whom it is agreed and for what, and now I will explain this to you. But before I explain this to you, I will tell you one thing: those of us who represent the Navarra citizens, because they have chosen us for this, we tell you that the Civil Guard is not going to leave Navarra. [[Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, candidate for the Presidency of the Government: Are we not?]] [[Applause from a number of honourable Members, on the floor]] We tell him that the Civil Guard is not going to leave Navarre because Navarra loves and needs it, because Navarra thanks him so many years of work, dignity and sacrifice in the fight for freedom, against terrorism and in the fight for our security. [[Greetings from the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some of the Mixed, standing up and saying: Long live the Civil Guard! Long live! Freedom, freedom, freedom!]] The Civil Guard doesn't bother us with the shipwrecks, the Civil Guard bothers the criminals and the nationalists, and most of the shipwrecks are neither criminals nor nationalists, so we don't just bother, but we appreciate their work. As I was saying, the problem is not competition, it's who you deal with and for what. You are negotiating the competition with the PNV, a party that has not been elected to represent Navarre, but that presided over the Government of Navarre in the last legislature because it was part of the Geroa Bai coalition that presided over Mrs Barkos. The Minister of the Interior of the Government of Navarre at that time was Mrs. Beaumont of Bildu!, and she brought to the Parliament of Navarre a master plan of police, which certainly did not dare or debate, in which she collected three possible models of police: that of coexistence - which is what we now have: the Foral Police, the municipal police, the Civil Guard and the National Police -; that of complementarity, and that of exclusivity. The one of exclusivity, of course, involved the disappearance of the Civil Guard and the Navarra Foral Police. Do you know what model the PNV and Bildu government chose? The one of exclusivity, Mr. Sanchez. That's why when they want to agree with you the Traffic competition, what they want to do is that the Civil Guard disappears from Navarre, because competition is not the problem, it's with whom you agree and for what the pact. [[Applauds]] That is why, Mr Sánchez, the day you want to talk about self-government and competence, call us, which we do believe in the Improvement of Navarre, we were born to defend it. Navarra is a Foral Community, with broad self-government, yes, but loyal to Spain and solidarity with all its peoples. Don't forget that either, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] Of course - I had it clear, but I have seen it more than ever -, another of your partners in Navarre and now it will also be in Spain is Bildu, and it is that you have decided to whiten Bildu, Mr Sánchez, you have decided to whiten Bildu to ensure eternally the governments, because to you the only thing that matters is to rule with whoever it is and at any price. [[rumors]] And you know what I'm saying?: that Bildu cannot be bleached because there is nothing blacker in the democratic history of our country. [[The applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some of the Mixed]] You don't have enough paint to bleach so much suffering, so much indignity and so much barbarity. This should be known, because you have suffered terrorism as we have; because you have been threatened, as we have; because you have had to look every morning under your car, as we have had to look at you; because you have been painted targets, as we have, and those who have threatened you, those who have extortioned you, those who have made you look under the car are the ones who abstained from being a government in Navarre; those who are going to approve the budgets and those who will elect you next Tuesday as President of Spain, those same ones. [[The applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some of the Mixed]] That is why, Mr Sánchez, I ask you not to disguise what is nothing more than an indecent strategy of laundering and not to look at plurality, which is nothing more than a renunciation of any ethical and moral principle in order to reach the government as it is, because you are moving away from the policy of your most fundamental pillar, which are the principles, and you are turning it into an end in itself to reach the government at any price, but in this case the price is called Spain, Mr Sánchez. [[The applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some of the Mixed]] I'm done, 'cause I see I'm running out of time. I told you in July, and I repeat it today, that you choose this government, even though I had other alternatives. We offered you in July our vote to prevent nationalism from ruling in Navarre and Spain, and you chose the opposite path. You have chosen the worst partners for Navarre and Spain, and I tell you that being president is a huge responsibility, a tremendous honor to the reach of very few. You are looking for the best partners for this task because Spain deserves it and needs it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some of the Mixed, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u57	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. Finally, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Sanchez. On behalf of Forum I will vote against his inauguration as President of the Government, first and foremost because his agreements with Unidad Podemos, ERC, PNV and EH Bildu violate article 1 of the Spanish Constitution which affirms that national sovereignty resides in the Spanish people, from which the powers of the State emanate. Among the powers of such powers, the Legislature, the Executive and the Judiciary, are not the bilateral tables of Governments without any normative support or control, nor the pedrea of the bat burrillo of nations. Their violation of the Constitution resulted in a new model of a multi-national State characterized by inequality. The agreements enshrine the inequality between Spaniards and between territories and also liquidate, from a pen, the history of their party, to which the 'E' of Spanish falls when it erases the word Constitution of their pacts or promotes consultations that ignore 95% of those who make up the national sovereignty, which resides throughout the Spanish people. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some from the Joint Group]] Mr Sánchez, yesterday you forgot these sacred principles of our democracy, and I would like to remind you that in politics not everything is worth getting the presidency, much less at the price you agree to pay after your negotiations and dealings with other forces that violate the Constitution. Our great democratic framework of harmony, coexistence, freedom, transformation and social progress has been the guarantor of Spain's modernisation for more than four decades, and should continue to be key to progress in cohesion. In its deterioration, however, some of your investiture supporters have been involved, but also you personally by misuse of the Moncloa converted into the licit plateau of electoral herring, by manipulating Spanish Radiotelevision, by distorting the CIS, by circumventing the independence of the Attorney General's Office and by manipulating the Attorney General's Office. Today, many Spaniards have reason to be very concerned about the drift you are dragging into our country; a feeling inversely proportional to the palmarial satisfaction of those who want to mutilate their unity or mutate it into plurinational to obtain more privileges, assignments and concessions at the cost of grabbing means and resources, at the cost of tumbling our democratic institutions and undermining law enforcement. Instead of progressing towards equality, his presidency will push us back after meeting with those who make tribalism and insolidity a pattern of political conduct to the detriment of others. Under his mandate, several major problems have already been exacerbated, starting with the need for work, the main priority for the Spaniards, and support to improve, update and sustain our Public Pension System. Mr. candidate, Asturias is another great reason why Forum will vote against your investiture, because the government chaired by you will be calamitous and condemn us to impoverishment for its fundamentalist ecologicalism, which in recent years has already destroyed thousands of stable jobs without alternative; a radical and unthinkable energy transition that has already paid the mining basins for their desertification, which has in the wake of the electro-intensive industry with its skilled workers and which suppresses, without socio-economic alternative and without guarantee of supply, power generating power stations, despite the fact that families, businesses and companies have already paid one of the highest electricity receipts in Europe; an executive that, in terms of infrastructure, steals the AVE from the Asturians after prostitution the great project of the Pajares variant, which threatens to crush the consensus reached in Gijón for rail integration, essential, as well as the regional collapse of the neighbourhood; an executive which, in terms of infrastructure, steals the competitiveness of the transport by road of goods and goods, with the use of goods and goods, and with the addition of the use of the use of a single word of a single word of a single word of a single word of the government in order, and of the country in order, which we have never more than the railway in the railway, Mr. on the railway, Mr. President, Mr. President's, Mr. President, Mr. candidate, Mr. candidate, Mr. Astur candidate, Mr. candidate, Mr. Astur candidate, Mr. Astur candidate, Mr. Astur candidate, Mr. Astur Astur, Mr. Astur Astur Astur Astur Astur Astur Astur Astur Astur candidate, will, will, Mr. Astur candidate, will, will, as candidate, Mr. Astur Asturcancancancancancancancancancan, will, will, will be, will, as a candidate, will be, will be, will be, will, will be, will be, will be, will, will be, will, will, will, will be, and will be able to condemn the government, and will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, and will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, Mr Sánchez - I conclude -, in his exercise of adanism yesterday he forgot to recognize that the history of Spain has many centuries and is the heritage of all, not only of those who have signed their unacceptable pact of investiture which, in the name of Forum, reject. I offer a piece of advice to his aulic successors: after listening yesterday and today to an intolerable splendour of uttered and uttered nonsense by those who declare themselves enemies of Spain, it is opportune to evoke one of the extraordinary Spaniards, whose portrait decorates, by the way, the vault of this Chamber Today we commemorate the 276 Anniversary of the birth of Jovellanos in Gijón and I want to remember him quoting his words. [[signaling it.]] I - Jovellanos said - do not follow a party, I follow the just cause that sustains my homeland that we unanimously adapt those that we receive from his hand the august order to defend and govern it and that we have all sworn to follow and defend. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Spanish people, in their honour, in honour of Jovellanos, of the Spain for which he fought, passed prison and defended, I finish my speech with a Long live Constitution! Long live the King! Long live Spain! [[Ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some of the Mixed: Long live!]] [[Ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some of the Mixed: Long live!]] [[Ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX, Citizens and some of the Mixed: Long live!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the floor. - Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and some of the Joint Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u59	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u60	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your interventions. I'll make some point. I will start with Mr Oblanca, the spokesperson for Forum Asturias, telling him a number of questions. The extension of the highway and toll of the Huerna was proposed by - let's say - its father founder of Foro Asturias, by Mr.Cascos, twenty-nine years until 2050. [[Applauds]] To Caesar what is Caesar's. As for the fact that bilateral relations are not contained in the Constitution, it seems that you have been left in the only article you have mentioned of this Constitution, which is article 1, but the clear bilateral tables that are recognized in the Constitution. Some are not even recognized in the Constitution, but are assimilated to our territorial order, for example the Conference of Presidents. In short, if we are so bad, if so impressive is your political project for Asturias, why always when the elections are called in Asturias who wins, for example in 2019, has been systematically the Socialist Federation of Asturias in that land? [[Applauds]] Mr Sayas and Navarra Suma's spokesperson are already impressive. [[Rumors and Protests]] It impresses a lot when you listen to the things you say. [[Rumors and Protests]] Let me answer that!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u62	Let me answer, man, don't be like that. You are quite loose in insult, even to the figure of the Presidency of the Government, but when you are told something good you have fine skin, eh? [[Protests.-Applause.-Several Members speak words that are not perceived.]] The problem, Mr. Sayas, is... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u64	...the conception we have of democracy. I said it in the first part of this investiture. Yesterday, both in the morning and in the afternoon, I said clearly that the composition of this Congress of Deputies has not been decided by the 350 Members who are here, it has been decided by the Spanish with their vote, and as legitimate is their seat as the seat of any other of the 349 Members. [[Several Members say words that are not perceived.-Applause]] Mr Sayas said that he would never have accepted the votes of Bildu or any other independentist or nationalist group to be elected president of the government. Okay. I'll tell you a story, Mr. Sayas. In September 1991, Union del Pueblo Navarro first acceded to the Government of Navarra. This government was in coalition with the People's Party because they went to the elections together. Navarro People's Union and HB allyed in the no to the Navarro Socialist Party and elected the UPN candidate for the most voted list. UPN, twenty seats; PSN, nineteen seats; HB, six seats; Eusko Alkartasuna, three seats; and United Left, two seats. [[rumors]] That is, the UPN nationalist party, the Navarro People's Union, agreed to the agreement with HB and obtained the presidency of Navarra. [[applause.- Rumors and protests.-Mr Sayas López: No! No! No!]] Mr. Sayas says... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u65	I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u66	Sayas says he was the first political force in Navarre. And what are we, the third political force in Spain or the first? [[Applauds]] Look at your view of democracy that it should be remembered that in the general elections of 2019 the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and Podemos obtained in Navarre 44% of the votes in April and 41% in November, while Navarra Suma and the ultra-right obtained 35% of the votes in November; 41% against 35%, Mr Sayas. Therefore, the current Government of Spain has very broad support in Navarre. Not to mention Geroa Bai, who obtained 3.9%, and of which the Basque Nationalist Party is a member, nor EH Bildu, with 19%, which is among those that facilitates the formation of the only possible government in Spain. That is to say, if we add all that conglomerate, there is 60% direct or indirect support from the citizens of Navarre for the formation of the progressive coalition government that is being proposed to this House. [[Applauds]] By the way, neither you nor the People's Party nor the far right can give any lesson to the Socialist Party in its commitment to freedom and peace in Euskadi and Navarre. [[Applauds]] He can't do it, because we were the ones who beat ETA. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] And so much so that today on the social networks children of murdered by ETA, for example María Jauregi or Elespe, say - and I quote textually -: my aita today would be happy, ETA does not exist and we will have a progressive government. [[Applause from the Socialist Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the members of the Government in office, on the ground]] Ladies and gentlemen, I said it yesterday and I repeat it again today: to the right and to the far right it does not hurt Spain, it hurts them not to rule Spain, and that pain becomes unbearable to them. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Navarra's spokesman Suma spoke of the transfer of traffic to the Government of Navarra and said that we should ask the Navarras. What's the matter, that we don't show up in Navarre, Mr. Sayas? We are as shipwrecked as you; at least, Mr. Sayas, as you are. [[Applauds]] These are transfers, ladies and gentlemen, which were agreed twenty years ago by a Government of the People's Party chaired by José María Aznar. [[Applauds]] You speak of the rule of law and of respecting the Supreme Court's decisions, and these are transfers that are recognized in a Supreme Court ruling, 371 of 7 March 2018, ladies and gentlemen; transfers that you recognized when you passed the Navarra Police Act with Bildu and Geroa Bai, which allowed the integration of the Civil Guard into the Navarra Foral Police. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] What a joke this is! But what cynicism we have to hear from this rostrum, ladies and gentlemen! But what cynicism we have to hear, when this government, when it was in opposition, the socialist bench denounced the loss of 12,000 members of the State Security Forces and Corpses, including those of the Civil Guard, for the cuts that you supported the People's Party Government, and today, in less than two years, there is an increase of 5000 members of the State Security Forces and Corpses throughout Spain. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Today there is more Civil Guard in Navarre with a socialist government than with the governments of the People's Party that you supported. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] So I reaffirm, Mr Sayas: the only outlaw party in Navarre is the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Mrs Vehi, if you'll excuse me, I think your attitude is the most comfortable. You are simply anti-system and therefore do not assume the contradictions you have to assume one precisely to change that system. You have spoken of exceptionality; indeed, there is exceptionality in many matters, for example - you said - on the southern border with the field of migration, in gender-based violence, in labour sinestrality, in fiscal injustice, which results in social injustice. We can agree on that. It is true that in the formulas you put forward I did not understand very well what you mean by taking pensions out of the general state budget. I don't know very well how they can be financed. Nor have I understood very well how you, who defend plurinationality, come to say that we have to pass a state law on housing in the Congress of Deputies. Ask the Basque Nationalist Party or the Republican Left. [[Applauds]] Precisely, that is the great contradiction between the things that you say and that exist, because we live in a fortunately decentralized state where municipalities and autonomous communities also have competence in these matters. I want to do a math. We have begun to replace the concertinas we denounced when we were opposed as harmful mechanisms to defend our borders against irregular immigration by much safer mechanisms, and that is something we intend to culminate in this legislature. I also want to do another math. We, in May, approved precisely that those murdered in Mauthausen were recognized in the Civil Registry and their families could obtain the dates and certification for it, and precisely we have done so in a very significant year for the democratic memory, which is also the memory of the Socialist Party but logically transcends the memory of a political formation because it is the memory of the whole country, of Spanish society; we have done so on the 80th anniversary of the Republican exile that we also claim. You speak of repression, of all the terms that have always been used by Catalan independence. I remind you of what the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg said, so much so that you often claim the judgments of the European Courts, for example that of Luxembourg. Precisely on the part of the Court of Strasbourg there was criticism of the unilateral bankruptcy of the democratic legality that was inflicted by the majority of the Catalan Parliament in 2017, in that month of September aghast, and that is why I was reflecting, in the air too, on the independenceist political forces if things had been done right. I accept the mistakes, the others themselves, because at the time I was in the opposition, but I did support the Government that took those exceptional measures, because it was exceptional to apply Article 155, but I also believe that independence would have to make a self-criticistic reading of those harsh months and above all not justify violence, Your Honor. I believe that it is important not to justify violence, to demarcate itself from violence, and I would like to hear from you the absolute condemnation of any kind of violence and certainly also to end the unilateral path that your political formation in some way defends in the context of Catalan litigation. [[rumors]] Otherwise, he talks about public education, and we agree. It speaks of a new Workers' Statute. It rejects the repeal we are proposing of the labour reform of the People's Party. It is true that here there is a broad consensus between different parliamentary groups, not only from the left but also more from the centre, from the centre-right, which we need to review. We have proposed not a complete repeal, but look to the future. We need to adopt a new Workers' Statute, which is what the social partners are also asking us to do. In short, I believe that there is a road map for the recovery of rights and freedoms in which I value at least that you leave the door open in order to be able to count on your parliamentary support. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Joint Group is a plural group for the perspectives and approaches that have been given to different issues in the country, but for responding to the spokesman of Foro Asturias, lessons of Constitution to the Socialist Party, who was architect of the Constitution, and not precisely the founder of Foro Asturias, which he did when he was in the former People's Alliance was not to support with great fervor and intensity the Spanish Constitution, Mr. spokesman of Foro Asturias, lessons the just to the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u67	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u68	Thank you, President. You, Mr. Sánchez, have described my words as impressive. What really impresses me is to see someone who aspires to be president of a country like Spain kneeling before the entire cohort of nationalists, independenceists and separatists in the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] That really impresses me. You have spoken that the composition of this Congress is a diverse composition and that your Government is a legitimate Government. Obviously, legal and legitimate is. Another thing is that it's moral. [[Protests.-Applause.]] You can kick whatever you want, but it may seem immoral to me to reach out to the government by the hand of those who have been bleaching ETA's, immoral terrorism for years. [[Applauds]] It seems immoral to me to become president of Spain by the hand of those who have convictions in the Supreme Court for wanting to break our country, it seems immoral to me. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I told you that the problem is not the traffic competition, but with whom you agree and for what the pact, because the objective of who you are agreeing with is the disappearance of the Navarra Civil Guard. I explained to him about the Police Director Plan. Of course, you have the legitimacy to agree on what you want and that the Socialist Party has also been elected by the Navarra Foral Community, of course. But I will tell you the same thing that Mrs Chivite said last parliamentary term when she was not the president, that a pact of these characteristics cannot be agreed with a party like the PNV, that it must be done with the Government of Navarre. Do you know what's going on? That we have the same speech when we are in the government as we are in the opposition. You guys change it. [[Several Members: Yes, yes!-Protests.-Applause]] I understand that in order to try to cover up your shames, which you should give him many, you try to spread that we have all ever reached the government by the hand of Bildu. My game never. It seems a lie that you have so many advisors, Mr. Sánchez, because every time you go out and talk about Navarra, you screw up. [[Rumors]] It has already done so in the previous investiture debate. It seems a lie that you have the advisors you have. In 1991, UPN arrived to the Government of Navarre by the most voted list procedure, exactly as the Socialist Party had arrived in the previous two elections, because when an absolute majority was not established there was a law that allowed the winner of the elections to access the Government directly. [[Greetings.-Rumores.-Mr.Rojas García: Now what?]] That is the way UPN came to the government, because it had won the elections. Indeed, you have also won them in Spain, but in Spain there is not the most voted list procedure, exactly as in Navarre there is neither because there was a legal change. Of course we did, but it wasn't with Bildu's support. [[Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, candidate for the Presidency of the Government: Now, now!-Rumores.-Applause]] We never did it, we never will, and if it makes you ashamed to do it, which seems normal to me, do not divide shame on others and keep it to yourself that you are the one to give it to. [[Applauds]] You - and I will finish with this - will be President of the Government of Spain with the votes of the extreme left, with the votes of nationalism, with the votes of separatism and with the votes of Bildu. But it's going to be not because you haven't had another alternative; you haven't spent a single minute searching for the agreement with those of us who don't think like you but share, or believe that we share, the same idea of a country. You choose your partners and the responsibility for what is going on in Spain will also be yours, Mr President. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the stand.-Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some on the stand.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u69	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, by following the order of the answer he gave to me, first of all I would like to say that the Government of which Mr Álvarez-Cascos was a member has prevented the continuation of the Huerna motorway between Leon and Benavente - 70 kilometres of enlargement - from being toll-free. It was a highway designed by the socialists, by Felipe González and Josep Borrell, as a toll freeway. Therefore, it was Cascos who freed the Lions and Asturians from the socialist toll freeway between Leon and Benavente. The Asturians hope - indeed - that the PSOE will fulfill Mr Zapatero's promise to withdraw the Toll of Huerna or, in his case, build a highway for Pajares. You say the PSOE always wins the elections in Asturias. It does not say, however, that the winner in 2011 was precisely the Forum of Alvarez-Cascos. And speaking of blockages, your party -- right, Mrs. Lastra? it was the one who blocked through the Covenant of the duernu that Cascos had his budgets in Asturias. Yes, the PSOE wins in Asturias, but you should read at the National Institute of Statistics that Asturias is the red lighthouse in employment, population, aging and decadence. With PSOE we are and will be the last in line. At Forum, in any case, we want to put an end to the decline of Asturias. To conclude, because I barely have time, in relation to the defense you have made of the Constitution, I would like to remind you that Mr Manuel Fraga, of the People's Alliance - a party in which militia, and to a great deal of honor - is one of the parents of the Constitution; Manuel Fraga is the father of the Constitution, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] In any case, if this debate of investiture has served anything, it is for you, Mr. candidate, to have confirmed yourself as a danger to Spain, to your Constitution, to your institutions and to a community like Asturias of loyal and supportive Spaniards to whom you and your next government of inequality will relegate in favor of other Spanish communities. Thus things, by Spain and by Asturias, Forum will reject his investiture. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u71	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u72	If I may, Madam President, I will answer from the bench because there is not much more to add either. As much as Navarra Suma's spokesman says, the story is there, there it is 1991, Mr Juan Cruz actually got the Presidency with the contribution of HB and, so much so, Your Honor - I have read it before because I just wanted to refresh his memory -... [[protests]] [[rumors]] [[protests]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u74	UPN in 1991 won twenty seats, the Socialist Party of Navarre nineteen seats, HB six seats, Eusko Alkartasuna three seats and Left United two seats. [[Rumors]] UPN therefore acceded to the presidency of Navarra. And look what John Cruz said there, Your Honor: twenty-six are more than twenty-four. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sayas, you're talking about who and not so much what, but if you've passed with Geroa Bai and EH Bildu a traffic police law in Navarre to integrate the Civil Guard into the Navarra Foral Police! What lessons will you give! The transfers were agreed by an administration of the People's Party with the Foral Government of Navarre, there is also a ruling of the Supreme Court that endorses those transfers and this government - Your Honor, to make it clear - will transfer those traffic skills but will also defend, not only mouthly but with facts - as we are doing - the good name of the Civil Guard. [[Applauds]] Madam President, simply to give concrete expression to some of the things that the spokesman for Foro Asturias said: in the Official State Bulletin of the year 2000, being Vice-President of the Government of Spain Alvarez-Cascos and being Minister of Fomento Arias-Salgado, the toll on the motorway to which you referred was extended until 2050 - twenty-nine years. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u75	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor. [[Applause from the Socialist Group and from the members of the Government in office, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I shall begin by telling Mr Martínez Oblanca - defending my land - that there is no decline in Asturias, in any case in Álvarez-Cascos, even within his own party. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this House, each of you, represents all the Spanish and Spanish. Each of us collects the flow of confidence that citizens place in our democracy and in our institutions. [[Rumors]] Calm down, I haven't started yet. [[Rumors]] Calm down. And that word, trust, is the key to everything we do and everything we are, what we are Members of Parliament and what we are and can be as a society. Every step we take as individuals and as a collective is a declaration of trust in others, in the doctor who attends us, in the teacher who watches over the younger ones or in the politician who represents us. That, trusting that everyone will carry out their task with dedication and responsibility, is what keeps our society standing and united. We are here on behalf of all the Spaniards and the first responsibility they have placed on us is to give a government to Spain. What we have met is right-wing people who betray that trust, who do not accept the outcome of the elections, who try to prevent - and do not care about the means - the democratic majority, the party that has won the elections and the candidate appointed by the head of state from forming a government. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] These days we have heard the right to call the traitor who won the elections, they have spoken of illegitimate government and they have called for it to be stopped by all means. Right-wing political representatives have said that they do not feel alluded to by the laws and have implicitly and even explicitly threatened with a coup d'état. [[Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, democracy... [[rumors and protests]] [[Mr. García Aegean: What do you say?- Rumors. - Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is opening up and the right-wings will not be able to prevent the formation of the government that the citizens have chosen. [[Applauds]] Nor am I going to hide my concern for extreme, disproportionate and radicalized rights - and today we are seeing it - which are only worth democracy when they win and are willing to do anything when they lose. The damage they do to the institutions is difficult to exaggerate and if there is anyone with a democratic sense on the right - which we are beginning to doubt - I call them to wisdom, I demand respect for the decisions of the citizens, I demand respect for this House and I demand respect for democracy. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, on Sunday 10 November, as soon as the ballot boxes opened and confirmed another victory of the Socialist Party, we got to work to negotiate the coalition agreement between the PSOE and the United Nations We can, and we did it quickly, but above all with loyalty and discretion, because we both knew that the Government is a responsibility and a necessity, and with the same loyalty and responsibility we have reached agreements with other political forces. I belong to a centenary party whose history is woven with the thread of freedom in our country, and that is why I know that democracy has never been to impose and silence, even less the result of the elections, is to listen and dialogue, especially with those who think differently from us. Negotiating is not, nor has it ever been, giving up your principles, on the contrary, is giving them the strength to turn them into reality, and whoever does not understand this will not understand the time in which we have lived. We have the most fragmented Parliament in the recent history of our democracy. Dialogue, responsibility are not just a political requirement, it is starting from reality. The Spanish have voted plurality, not block; they have voted dialogue, responsibility and understanding. No community, no country, no future can be built from confrontation and paralysis, even less from fear and threat. Extremism and the blockade, proposed in this case by the right-wings, are not a country project, nor a government programme, are the sterile finding of their lack of proposals, are the expression of the impotence of defeated right-wings who only respect the will of the citizens when they vote for them. [[Applauds]] It's always been like this in our history, it's always been like this in our history. The right-wings have always come late and towed democratic agreements: they have come to disdain in the Constitution; they have come late to the State of self-government and already want to destroy it; equality between men and women has not been reached nor expected, neither the rights of workers nor the rights of the LGBTI collective, and the State of Welfare every time they arrive is to cut it. You, Mr. Married, are always going to tow society and nothing can be led by going two, three or four steps behind and questioning the will of the citizens. She said - because we have heard many barbarities in recent months and some I will refer to - Mrs Ayuso when we exhumed the dictator that the parishes were going to burn as in 36. Well, look, the only thing that's on fire here is a right that forty years later still doesn't reject Francoism and almost behaves like it. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Either democracy is defended or murderous dictators are honoured, but both things cannot be done at the same time; or the outcome of the elections is accepted or democracy is attacked, there are no more options. [[Mr. Casado Blanco: Felipe González?]] So much back, Mr Casado, both to go and come for decades, that if the moderate right, if the center, if the reformist center, so much effort to convince the Spaniards that you are truly democrats, to end where you started forty years ago, by the hand of the extreme right, by the hand of the extreme right. [[Applauds]] His only project is to return Spain to the past. [[Rumors]] Our project is a government to move forward, a progressive government to fight against insecurity by guaranteeing decent and quality jobs; an ecological government, because the fight against climate change is already an emergency; a government that guarantees the right to a dignified death - yes, to euthanasia - a feminist government that guarantees the security, freedom and independence of women; a government proud of the freedom with which sexual diversity is lived in our country; a government that makes social and territorial cohesion a cornerstone, because, ladies and gentlemen, the socialists do not want to live from the territorial crisis: we want to solve it. [[Applauds]] We do not want Spain to be uniform, but to be diverse, united and cohesive. Cohesion as a horizon, responsibility as a principle and, as a working tool, first dialogue, then dialogue and always dialogue. And to those who wish all evils I will say only one thing: that we have already done the most difficult; we have opened the way and the success of this investiture will be proof that we can understand each other. [[Applauds]] This government program is, as you know, the result of the agreement with our coalition partner, with Unidad Podemos, but not just with them. Other political parties have also been involved in its creation, which have been able to act from the point of view of political responsibility and to tie their shoulders when necessary. I would therefore like to thank you personally: thank you, Mr Quevedo; thank you, Mr Baldoví; thank you, Mr Errejón and Mrs Sabanes; thank you, Mr Rego; thank you, especially, Mr Guitarte, especially for the pressures you are suffering; thank you, Mr Esteban. [[Applauds]] And they're gonna let me... [[Rumors]] Quiet, arriving, quiet; Theodore, quiet. They're gonna let me stop at the Republican Left of Catalonia. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u79	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u80	Yesterday Mr. Rufián said, paraphrasing Borges: 'We were not united with love, we were united with fear.' And it is a part of the truth; but we were also united - and you will allow me, Mr Rufián - the convictions in the greatness of politics and in which we have to return politics to the central axis of this country, because politics solves problems, does not generate them. [[Applauds]] We live in difficult times but our great differences could not be the excuse to prevent a social government or the alibi of a right thrown into the mountain of extremism. It is time to take a step forward and make commitments, and we have done so. It is time to be brave and to face the overcoming of a conflict that has been ensnared for years and that paralyzes everything. It's not going to be easy and we're seeing it, we're checking it out. It's gonna take time, we know, but we can do it. We have an obligation to give certainty to the citizens of Catalonia and the rest of Spain and to end a conflict that, as I said, paralyzes us, divides us and confronts us. And I would especially like to thank you, Mr. Rufián, for your courage and commitment. [[Applauds]] It is the moment of democracy and it is the moment of the left because it has been wanted by the citizens and nobody speaks louder than the citizens: dialogue, dialogue, dialogue. Mr. Churches, here we are. [[Rumors]] We make history, yes: the first coalition government of our democratic stage; the first government in which we will be two left-wing parties. Let's see if next time we make history a little faster I've always defended that the left knows, can and must understand. [[Laughter]] Now it is up to us to demonstrate and preach by example. We've got a lot to do and we're gonna make it worth it. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Party is a loyal partner and I know that United We can also be a loyal partner. [[Mr. García Aegean: Don't trust]] Thank you, Mr. Iglesias, for finding 'the new words', which Angel González would say. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that I cannot count on this list of thanks with some parliamentary groups. Obviously, I did not expect anything from an ultra-right who has only come to this House - and they prove it every day - to energize our democracy, when not to directly encourage contemptible coup practices. [[Rumors]] From whom I believe we all expected something more is from those who define themselves as constitutionalists but refuse the constitutional work of giving this country the only possible government and are dedicated exclusively to boycotting in any way possible the formation of the democratic government. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Arrimadas, we've seen the right do desperate things, but nothing like the ridiculous thing you've done encouraging tamayazos. [[Applausos.- Mrs. Arrimadas García shows a poster on which is written 'CV Adriana Lastra PSOE' and sees the anagram of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party]] Look, I don't know what kind of Members you're used to treating, but Members of this House are neither arrivalists nor fugitives. [[A Member: We'll see about that!]] So if the next thing I thought was to bring a bag with money, we're going to save it; we're going to save it. [[Applausos.- Mrs. Arrimadas García again shows the sign on which it is written 'CV Adriana Lastra PSOE' and sees the anagram of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party]] In politics there is something worse than being in the opposition and it is being in irrelevant. [[Applauds]] Mr. Casado, I was saying it a moment ago and it is that you have settled in the denial of the election result but have gone much further. They denied the election results on the same election night asking for the resignation of the winner of the election. So let's put things in place and each other in place, Mr. Married. Look, since you came to the presidency of the People's Party in less than eighteen months the PP has lost five elections, two of them general. [[Rumors]] The PSOE has won them all, are we still talking about resignations, Mr. Married? [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u82	And it's true that other PP leaders also lost elections, it's true. [[Mr Rojas García: Time to time!]] But you are the first to celebrate defeats and question who has won the elections. This is his way of understanding political responsibility: he loses the elections and demands that he resign those who have won them, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] And you alone, without anyone forcing you, are thrown into the hands of the neo-rancist far right and come here to give us lessons of constitutionalism, to call yourself constitutionalist. I'll tell you what the Constitution stands for and what it doesn't. Defending the Constitution is fighting gender-based violence, not questioning it. Defending the Constitution is protecting all people equally, not attacking the LGTB collective. To defend the Constitution is to recognize and protect, yes, the victims of terrorism and their families, not insult them and use them for shameful partisan purposes. [[Protests.-Several Members point to EH Bildu's bench.-Applause]] But what can we expect from a political party that says that the militants of the Basque People's Party were armed in the face of terrorism or that we are now worse than when ETA was killing? You have said that and it is unworthy; it is unworthy. [[Applauds.-Protests.-Several Members point to the seats of EH Bildu.-Mrs. Álvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos: That is the proof]] They are unworthy words of a ruling party; they are unjust with the sacrifice of those who, like their militants in the Basque Country - and also my own, those of the PSOE - have given everything to achieve peace and defeat terrorism and deserve not their insults but all our respect and our greatest tribute. [[Applauds]] Between the interest of Spain or that of your party, you always choose the second, always. And if you believe that your party's interest is to agree with the ultra-right and against the Spaniards, it does so without problem. [[Protests.-Mr García Aegean: But say something about Bildu!-Various Members: Talk about Bildu!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u84	Yes, Mr. Casado, against the Spanish and against the Spanish. In a country where a woman reports rape every five hours, you ridicule express consent and the fight against macho violence. [[Applauds]] Their debts to VOX are paying them with the security and freedom of women, and women will know how to remember it. [[rumors.-Mr. García Aegean: What debt to VOX?]] You don't want to help victims of sexist violence, you want them not to be talked about, you want to hide them, you want to make them invisible. [[Protests]] That's why they call it in many ways... [[Rumors.-Mr. García Aegean: What about Bildu's name?]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you again for silence, please. I ask you to remain silent. The speaker in the rostrum is the speaker, not you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u86	That's why they call him in many ways, but not by his name. I repeat: it is macho violence and it kills. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] And I repeat, in case it has not been made clear to you, you and your partners are a danger and a threat to women's freedom and security. [[Greetings.-Protests.-Mrs. Beltrán Villalba: Don't insult women!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u87	Mrs. Lastra, just a moment, please. Keep quiet, please; keep quiet and respect the speaker, Mrs Lastra. Quiet, please. [[The Rumors Continue]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u88	Defending the Constitution also means protecting workers' rights, and you talk about the economy and its management of the crisis. Do you really think the biggest cuts in Spain's history are to breastfeed? Look, I'm going to remind you because you forget the data many times: with your crisis management, the poorest 1% lost more than a third of their income and the richest 1% earned 20%. That was his crisis management. [[Applauds]] You have achieved what you have never seen in Spain: poor workers, people who work and spend hours and hours and cannot reach the end of the month. [[Protests.-Mr.De Olano Vela: It was you, who have a lot of face!]] That's what you, you alone have done.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u89	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u90	If they think they're gonna scare me with screams they're very wrong and they know me very little, very little, very little. [[Applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand.- Applause from the members of the governments in office, some of them on the stand.]] For all this requires a left-wing government, because the economy too can and must be fair. And defending the Constitution, Mr. Married, is also dialogue with those who have differences. [[A Member of Parliament: With Bildu!]] Of course I do, even big differences. [[A Member of Parliament: With ETA!]] And in order for this country to move forward, we had to talk to a lot of people that separated us a lot, even those who persecuted us. [[A Member of Parliament: With the etarras!]] Yes, even with those who have persecuted us. [[Mr. García Aegean: That's called losing dignity!]] Some of them, by the way, founded their party. It's all right, it's all right. [[Applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand.- Applause from the members of the Government in office, some of them on the stand.]] You have spread about the conflict in Catalonia in your intervention; you have based it almost entirely on the conflict in Catalonia. The problem is that he's not in a position to teach anyone lessons. And I will remind you of a fact that we have repeated several times. In the 2010 Catalan elections, before you arrived in La Moncloa, 320,000 Catalans voted for independence options; in the 2017 elections, after their passage through La Moncloa, there were already 2 million. You're an independence factory, Mr. Casado. [[Applauds]] But, look, the most significant thing about your speech is that you have not given a single idea, a proposal, or absolutely nothing for Catalonia. Do you know the difference? That we do believe in the transforming power of politics; we do believe in the transforming power of politics. [[Applauds]] I listened to him yesterday and all morning to say very outraged that we agreed with independent parties and today I heard him seriously insulting many Members of this House, also, of course, the Socialists, when Mrs Aizpurua was speaking. [[Mrs Beltrán Villalba: The lady!-A Member: The one from Bildu]] I call you Mr Casado, think what you think, I treat all Members of this House with decorum. [[applause]] That's all right, because your party and UPN, by the way, had no problem talking, negotiating and seeking agreement with HB when they needed it, as they did in Navarre. [[Several Members: Lie!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u92	And I'm not going to talk to you about 1991, as did the president of the government and candidate... [[Mr. García Aegean: And where was he?]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u93	Mr. Aegean, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u94	... But I'm going to tell you about the year 1993. We were no longer negotiating an investiture, you were negotiating budgets, in 1993, when ETA existed and killed up to twenty people a year. [[Applauds]] And this is what UPN and the People's Party did. Look at the picture, look at the picture! [[Show a photocopy]] [[Several Members: Lie! Liar!-Applause]] By the way, do you know how many times you voted with the independence groups in the last legislature? [[Mr. White Casado: What, what?]] I tell you, in this Chamber, 225 times. Enough hypocrisy; enough hypocrisy. [[Applauds]] And I'm telling you all this because it's all right with so much irresponsibility and so much hypocrisy, as I was telling you now, but also to try to call you wise, because, you see, if you talk like VOX, you say the same thing as VOX, you propose what VOX, you behave like VOX and you do politics like VOX, it's not that you become VOX, it's that your voters will end up voting for VOX. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the extreme right is fed by uncertainty and fear, it is fed by shaking scarecrows from a failed past and tricking those who seek asylum, and that is why it is very important to have clear priorities. Defending Europe today is defending social Europe; defending democracy in Spain today is defending social Spain, defending the welfare state. This is something that the left has always known and that today must understand the democratic right, if there is anything left of it. The greatest threat to democracy throughout the world is the far right, and we already have it in this House, and it is therefore appropriate that we all be very clear who we are and where we stand. [[Rumors]] Mr Abascal - or lords of VOX, since Mr Abascal is not - you do not want to build a better Spain nor, as you say, to return to Spain your greatness; you want to destroy precisely everything that makes us great: freedom, equality, social justice. That's what they want to destroy. You talk a lot about Spain, but you dedicate each of your words and deeds to attacking the Spanish and Spanish, and we will reveal your lies, one after another, until the citizens know your true face. He lies when he says that the Law against Gender Violence does not work; it works and every day saves lives since its adoption, and I will give them data: almost 2 million complaints of gender violence, 477,000 protection orders, 870,000 calls to 016, 30,000 women with police protection. They are not figures, gentlemen of VOX, they are millions of women to whom this law has been useful. [[Applauds]] Behind each figure a woman has begun a new life; behind each figure there is a freer and fairer society. You don't stop talking about anti-Spain while attacking all Spanish and Spanish. They attack and try to ridicule women by saying that feminism is a cancer or that sewing a button empowers. Yesterday, they were stunned to say that in the PSOE we are responsible for sexual violence; his spokesman said so here. I'm going to ask you a question: do you know what the Arandina case is? This is the case of a multiple rape of a minor. Do you know what was said from your ranks about the girl, the teenage girl raped after knowing the sentence? That she was a harpy and a slut. That was said from their ranks; their number nine to Congress. That's how you defend the victims of sexual assault. [[Mr Ortega Smith-Molina and Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon and Mrs Olona Choclán make negative signs.- Various Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group: Yes!-Applause]] Look, they attack the most vulnerable by calling chiringuitos the organizations that protect them. Man, chiringuito is what Esperanza Aguirre created for Abascal to get rich with everyone's money; that's a chiringuito. [[Applauds]] They attack older and younger people by saying that pensions or education is for those who can afford it, as their economic guru says. By the way, children are children come from wherever they come from and need protection, not criminalization. You very much like to point out, as you did with the centre of Hortaleza and as you are doing yesterday and today with various Members. You know what I'm telling you? That I have risen today, I have ascended to this rostrum, I am making this speech and I will vote yes to defend the democracy of people like you; of people like you. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simón: And with Bildu?-Applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, we can-in common May-Galicia in common, standing]] And then they surprise us with that turn to social chauvinism talking about workers. But you know what happens to them? That the only class consciousness they know is that of the exploiters; they have them in their ranks as well. [[Applauds]] Look, they attack freedom when they ask you to hide from the LGTB collective... [[Protests and rumors.- Mrs. Arrimadas García again shows a poster on which is written 'CV Adriana Lastra PSOE' and sees the anagram of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u96	They attack freedom when they ask to hide from the LGTB collective. The LGTB collective in these forty years of democracy has done much more for the advancement in this country than all of you together, Mr Ortega Smith. [[Applauds]] And they attack our democracy by announcing, as their leader in Ceuta does, that they are going to cleanse Spain of socialists. Purify Spain from the Socialist Party, Mr Ortega Smith. Others of the same grudge that you tried before and are where your political party will end: in the landfill of history. There they are. [[Applauds]] In this country, no threats to freedom and democracy are tolerated, neither explicit nor veiled. What I don't understand is what kind of country you believe you live in, what kind of country you believe is Spain. They attack women, the LGBT collective, the workers, the children, the elderly, the deputies of this House. Don't keep looking anymore: anti-Spain is you. You're the hate party. [[Applauds]] And, look, in the PSOE we love everything you hate... [[Rumors.-Mr. Sánchez García utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u97	Quiet, please. Mr. Sánchez García!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u98	... feminism, ecology, diversity and social justice. We love democracy and we love freedom and we will always be in front of a neo-ranquitous party like yours. [[Applauds.- Mrs. Olona Choclán: But with Bildu yes!]] That is why it is very good for everyone in this House to be very clear who we are and where we are. You cannot be a Europeanist and agree with those who want to destroy the European Union. It cannot be argued that the PP is a party of moderate center, reformist or what they decided to call themselves that morning, and agree with those who feed the most extremist discourse. One cannot be a Democrat by denying the will of the citizens and the right of the majority to form a government. Look, Mr. Casado, you said that you came to rearm ideologically to the PP and so far you have only rearmed to the far right, to which you have opened all the doors in institutions, communities and municipalities. [[Mr. García Aegean: You opened the doors to Podemos and Bildu!]] Everything that is VOX at institutional level owes it to you; to you. [[Applauds]] You have a huge responsibility, Mr Casado, and I no longer speak to you about supporting government formation, obviously. He has two options: to bring his party to the centrality of constitutional democracy or to sit in the same space of the far right. That is something that only you can decide, but the consequences of what you do will affect us all, the whole country. Ladies and gentlemen, I was beginning this speech with confidence and I want to close it with that same idea, because today it is more important than ever that we democrats know how to recognize ourselves above what separates us. It is true that there are doctrines and ideologies of division and resentment, but they are not the majority. It is true that there are politicians living from confrontation, even hatred, but we are not the majority and this investiture will prove it. It is true that there are citizens who in times of uncertainty fall attracted by those mermaid songs and it is our obligation to draw them out of their deception. The vast majority of people want to live in peace, with vital security, with decent employment and with confidence in the future, and extremism feeds on uncertainty, fear and also division among us. That is why I am convinced that there is no better antidote against the extreme right than a left-wing government, a government that tells our elders not to fear for their pensions and our young people that a better future is possible; a government that knows that competition is not in conflict with social justice, that the benefits of globalization cannot go to just a few, they have to reach out to all, that the European Union does not take away sovereignty from us, but makes us stronger, that our democracy raises it on dialogue and responsibility, which is a success story to be proud of, very proud of. [[rumors]] But, above all, it's a project to be built, and that's where we'll all have to be and we all fit. [[Rumors.-An honourable Member: Another lie!]] Compañeros and compañeras of the Socialist Party, thank you all very much for your work, for your support and for your trust, especially to my secretary general, Rafa Simancas. [[Applauds]] I always say that there is only one thing that can be compared to the pride of being President of the Government and that is to lead the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and to me it is a pride and an honour. Our founder said that we are socialists not to love our ideas in silence or to recreate ourselves with their greatness and with the spirit of justice that encourages them, but to take them everywhere. For that we are, comrades, to bring our ideas, our values and our proposals everywhere; especially, Mr President, let us take them to the BOE. Thank you so much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Bravo, bravo!-Various ladies and gentlemen: Out, out, out!- Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the Confederal United Parliamentary Group We can-In Communal May-Galicia in common and of the members of the government in office, standing.- Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simón asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u99	Yes, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u100	Thank you. For allusions that affect dignity and decorum, as stated in article 71.3. Mrs. Lastra thinks it affects our dignity and decorum by lying when she speaks of neo-ranchism, by lying when she speaks of anti-Spain and by lying when she speaks of us being against women or against gays. But it's not that, it's not that the problem... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u101	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, what expression affects decorum?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u102	The expression that affects the decorum and dignity of this House - and that is going to make it, by the way, that not only nearly four million Spaniards vote for VOX, but that in the next few years we will destroy them - is the indignity of pacting with Bildu above all. That is the real indignity of this House,...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u103	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u104	...that all of you should be ashamed of. Shame on you! Shame on you! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u105	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, there are no allusions. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, here has been a chapter of thanks to various members of different negotiating teams for being able to forge a parliamentary majority that will allow the progressive coalition government to move forward next Tuesday that we are going to launch for the first time in the history of democracy, but certainly if there has been one person who, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, has led those negotiations with correctness, tenacity, patience and empathy, has been the group's spokesman, Adriana Lastra. Thank you. [[Applauds]] And on behalf of Adriana, I also want to transfer recognition, support, solidarity and empathy to the 120 Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, who during these last few hours and days have received a campaign of harassment, insult and threat simply by defending their convictions and giving an alternative to governance to Spain, after five elections won by the Socialist Party in 2019. [[Applauds]] It is a pride, because after what we have heard during the debate these days, what we have seen and read in the e-mails of Members of the Socialist Party, even here, from this rostrum, by some spokespersons, calling, shamefully, the transfuguism of Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, when the transfuguism was denied and rejected by many political parties years ago, today it seems to me that this is the worrying symptom of the colonization of the discourse of conservative space by the ultra-right. So, ladies and gentlemen, in front of the coalition of the apocalypse, the progressive coalition that we are going to propose and that will come forward on January 7. [[Applauds]] Let us leave them, ladies and gentlemen, with the grudge of those who have never learned to lose and who know that right now the space of moderation, temperance, rigour and respect if represented by someone is precisely the progressive coalition that will lead Spain over the next four years. [[Applauds]] What I humbly propose to the socialist bench - because it is to which I can address as secretary general of the Socialist Party - is: in the face of insult, measure; in the face of harassment, temperance, and, in the face of the threat, respect and willingness to dialogue and to build bridges with all parliamentary groups, because that will be the best demand for the best of the policies that our country needs. [[Applauds]] I wish, ladies and gentlemen, there was no intolerance, but there is. And our democracy is so great that even the intolerance we have heard during these two days in this House is recognized and is welcomed in our democracy. Therefore, let us leave the grudge to those who have lost the elections, let us leave the grudge to those who do not assume the election result, let us leave the grudge to those who do not assume the popular will, who decidedly - not once, but five times - have told them not to them and yes to a progressive coalition over the next four years. [[Applauds]] And I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because there are many people - I don't know if it has happened to you on your mobiles; not the call from Mrs. Arrimadas or any other calling for transfuguism, as if it were a virtue, when it is precisely the opposite, Mrs. Arrimadas - I say this because I have received on my mobile a lot of messages from people who are excited, hopeful with the political project that we are going to put on the table from 7 January. [[laughter and rumors]] [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Hope, yes, because there is hope. There is hope in the workers, who will see their labour rights recovered. There is hope in the pensioners, who will see finished, finished the dictatorship of 0.25 that put on the table the People's Party. [[Rumours.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common and from the members of the Government in office, who continue to applaud while still speaking to Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón]] There is hope for women who suffer from sexist violence, there is hope for young people who have difficulty in being emancipated and educated not with segregating systems, there is hope for finding work, there is hope for those young people who came out of Spain as a result of the cuts, and we will put in place plans for them to return to their country. [[rumors]] There is also hope for those young people who are marching through the streets of Madrid and all of Spain, as from all over the world, saying that we must demand intergenerational solidarity, mitigate and adapt to the effects of climate change, and not precisely frivolize them, as does the reactionary wave that also suffers Spain. [[Applauds]] There is hope also for those Catalans and for those Spanish who want to live in harmony, claiming those principles and values of the Spanish Constitution that yes, the Socialist Party, the centre-right of this country, the Communist Party, the moderate nationalist parties... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u108	...we stood up forty years ago. There's hope. [[Applause from the Socialist Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the members of the Government in office, on the ground]] There's hope. [[Several Members: Bravo! Bravo!]] There's hope. Let us make this legislature a demand for the best of policies, the best of hopes. [[The applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal and the members of the Government in office, who have been put on the stand, continues]] Let us leave the apocalypse coalition with its grudge, with its Spain in black and white. There is hope, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mrs. Beltrán Villalba: What there is is hope without you]] And there is hope, above all and above all,... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u109	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u110	... because we are not people who come here on behalf of anyone; on the contrary, we come in the name of principles and values that have been endorsed in a majority by Spanish citizens, that, in the face of the reactionary waves that we are seeing that they achieve the majority in other countries and that govern other countries - by the way, not far from Spain -, here in Spain, citizens have wanted all these dramas of inequality, climate change, gender violence to have a progressive perspective, which is the one that demands this progressive coalition that we are going to launch. [[applause]] Of course there's hope. And let's open that new stage. We will open it with all responsibility, with all loyalty, with all heights of vision and with the vocation of dialogue, dialogue and dialogue, even with those who insult us, Mr Casado. Look, I told you in the first of my speeches that one of the greatest honors I have as a Socialist Party activist is to be secretary general of an organization with a hundred and forty years of life. Here are newly born political organizations... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u111	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u112	... and there are other political organizations that have been behind them for many years: the Basque Nationalist Party, Republican Left, singularly. But, look, if we have a hundred and forty years of life and we are transcendent - because we are, and not only are transcendent, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in Spain, we are transcendent in all those places, which even need the contribution, moderation and progress that the Socialist Party demands; if we are transcendent it is because of something that I said in my first intervention, and it is because the roots of our demands, of our political projects sink in the dreams and needs of much of Spanish society. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this progressive coalition is the best antidote against this coalition of the apocalypse, no doubt. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and, with all humility, also to the United Nations Group we can moderate and progress. With moderation and progress, I call for the majority confidence of this House to finally have a government in Spain. [[Applause from the Socialist Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the members of the Government in office, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u113	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, once the debate is over, we shall proceed to the vote for the granting of confidence to the candidate proposed by his majesty the king. As set out in the Rules of Procedure of the House in Rule 85.2, the vote shall be made public by appeal. Your ladies and gentlemen will answer yes, no or abstention from your seat when they are called by the secretaries, who will read the names from the speaker's rostrum. I ask you to answer the appeal with a clear and audible voice, although the secretaries who call them will repeat the meaning of the vote in order to avoid difficulties. The appeal, as you all know, is made in alphabetical order, but beginning with the first name of the honourable Member whose name has been drawn by lot and who has been Maria del Mar García Puig. The Government in office and the Bureau shall vote at the end. The vote will begin in two minutes. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin the vote. I ask the Secretary to start the appeal first. The secretaries of the Bureau make an appeal to the ladies and gentlemen, who are expressing the sense of their vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'yes': García Puig, María del Mar Garrido Gutiérrez, Pilar Garzón Espinosa, Alberto Gomez Hernández, Hector Gómez-Reino Varela, Antonio González Caballero, Miguel Ángel González Pérez, Ariagona González Ramos, Manuel Gabriel Gorospe Elezcano, Josune Guaita Esteruelas, Sandra Guijarro Ceballos, Maria Guijarro García, Txema Guinart Moreno, Lydia Guitar Gimeno, Tomás Gutiérrez Prieto, Sergio Honrubia Hurtado, Pedro Antonio Turrion Churches, Pablo Illueca Ballester, Hector Izquierdo Roncero, José Javier Jover Díaz, Antonia Lamuà Estañol, Marc Lastra Fernández, Adriana Legarda Uriarte, Mikel Lima Cid, Fuensanta López Álvarez, Patxi López Cano, Ignacio López de Uralde Garmendia, Juan Antonio López Domínguez, Laura López Zamora, Cristina Master Moliner, Roser Máñez Rodríguez, Elena Marí Klose, Pau Marquez Guerrero, Maria Marra Dominguez, María Ángeles Marrodán Funes, Maria Martínez Seijo, María Luz Mayoral Perales, Rafael Meijón Couselo, Guillermo Antonio Mena Arca, Joan Mínguez García, Montse Montero Gil, Irene Maria Montilla Martos, José Antonio Muñoz Dalda, Lucia Narváez Flag, Maria Dolores Nasarre Oliva, Begoña Ortega Otero, Marina Padilla Ruiz, Esther Peña Waiter, Esther Perea and Conillas, María Mercè Pérez Abelás, Adolfo Polo Llavata, Francisco Pons Sampietro, Pere Joan Nieto's friend, Ana. Quevedo Iturbe, Pedro Ramírez Carner, Arnau Ramon Utrabo, Elvira Ramos Esteban, Caesar Joaquin Ramos Rodríguez, José Luis Raya Rodríguez, Maria Tamara Rego Candamil, Nestor Renau Martínez, Germán Rodríguez Gómez, María del Pilar Rodríguez Rodríguez, Alberto Rodríguez Salas, José Antonio Ros Martínez, Susana Rosell Aguilar, Maria Victoria Ruiz and Carbonell, Joan Saavedra Muñoz, Marisa Sabanes Nadal, Inés Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea, Idoia Sahuquillo García, Luis Carlos Salazar Rodríguez, Francisco José Sánchez Escobar, Mariano Sánchez Jódar, Marisol Sancho Guardia, Alfredo Sancho Íñiguez, Herminio Rufino Santiago Romero, Enrique Fernando Sarrià Morell, Vincent Manuel Saura García, Pedro Close Parent, David Serrano Martínez, Juan Francisco Seva Ruiz, Yolanda Sicily Ensign, Philip Jesus Simancas Simancas, Rafael Soler Mur, Alejandro Soto Burillo, Juan Luis Sumelzo Jordan, Susana Uriaarte Torrealday, Roberto Velarde Gomez, Martina Vera Ruíz-Herrera, Noelia Vicente Viondi, Daniel Vilches Ruiz, María Luisa Villagrasa I want, Naomi Zamarron Moreno, Agustín Zaragoza Alonso, José You take Galindo, José Luis. Agirretxea Ursti, Joseba Andoni Alfonso Cendón, Javier Alonso Suárez, María Olga Andrés Añón, Carmen Andrés Barea, Josefa Antón Cacho, Javier Aranda Vargas, Francisco Arangüena Fernández, Pablo Asens Llodra, Jaume Baldoví Roda, Joan Belarra Urteaga, Ione Berja Vega, Laura Blanquer Alcaraz, Patricia Botella Gómez, Ana Maria Bravo Boat, Eva Well Campanario, Eva Patricia Knight Gutiérrez, Helena Campo Moreno, Juan Carlos Canales Duque, Mariana de Gracia Cancel Rodriguez, Pilar Carrera de Castro, Zaida Carrillo de los Reyes, Beatriz Micaela Casares Hontañón, Pedro Cerdán León, Santos Cerqueiro González, Javier Corredor Sierra, María Beatriz Courtesy Gómez, Ismael Crespin Rubio, Rafaela Four houses Asua, Juan Díaz Pérez, Yolanda Diouf Dioh, Luc Andre Durán Peralta, José Carlos Echenique Robba, Pablo Elorza González, Odón Errejón Galván, Íñigo Esteban Bravo, Aitor Fagundez Campo, Antidio Faneca López, María Luisa Fernández Benitez, Andrea Fernández Casaro, Ana Belén Fernández Castañón, Sofia Ferrer Treasure, Sonia Franco Carmona, Isabel Franco Pardo, José Manuel García Chavarría, María Montserrat García Gómez, Valentín García López, Maribel García Morís, Roberto Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'no': García Rodríguez, Alicia García Tejerina, Isabel García-Pelayo Jurado, María José Garriga Vaz de Concicao, Ignacio Gasquez Collado, Paloma Gesto de Miguel, Luis Gimenez Gimenez, Sara González Coello de Portugal, Victor González Guinda, María del Carmen González Terol, Antonio González Vázquez, Marta Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu, Fernando Adolfo Herrero Bono, José Alberto Hispan Churches of Ussel, Pablo Holo Juliá, Belén Illamola Dausà, Mariona Jerez Juan, Miguel Ángel Jiménez Linuesa, Beatriz Jiménez Revuelta, Rodrigo Jiménez-Becerril Barrio, María Teresa Ledesma Martín, Sebastian Jesus López Álvarez, María Teresa López Maraver, Angel Lorite Lorite, Andrés Manso Olivar, Rubén Silvano Marcos Dominguez, Pilar Marcos Ortega, Miracles Marshal Anaya, Guillermo Mariscal Zabala, Manuel Martin Llaguno, Marta Martínez Ferro, María Valentina Martínez Granados, María Carmen Martínez Oblanca, Isidro Manuel Matarí Sáez, Juan José Mateu Istúriz, Jaime Miguel Mazón Ramos, José María Mendez Monastery, Lourdes Merino Martínez, Javier Master Barea, Manuel Miquel and Valenti, Sergi Moneo Diez, Maria Sandra Montesinos Aguayo, Pablo Montesinos de Miguel, Macarena Moraleja Gómez, Tristan Maria Moro Almaraz, Mary Jesus Movellán Lombilla, Diego Vidal Muñoz, Maria Navarro Lacoba, Carmen Navarro López, Pedro Nevado del Campo, María Magdalena Nugueras and Camero, Miriam Olano Vela, Jaime Eduardo de Olona Choclán, Macarena Oramas González-Moro, Ana María Ortega Smith-Molina, Francisco Javier Ortiz Galván, José Paniagua Nuñez, Miguel Ángel Pedreño Molina, Juan Luis Pérez Díaz, María Auxiliadora Píriz Maya, Victor Valentín Postigo Quintana, Jesús Prohens Rigo, Margarita Ramallo Vazquez, María Pilar Ramírez del Río, José Round Calvillo, Mary of the O Quejo Novoa, Peter Jesus Requena Ruiz, Juan Diego Riolobos Regadera, Carmen Robles López, Joaquín Rodríguez Almeida, Andrés Alberto Rodríguez Herrer, María Elvira Rojas García, Carlos Romero Hernández, Carmelo Romero Sánchez, Rosa María Romero Vilches, Mary of the Kings Rosety Fernández de Castro, Agustín Wheel Perello, Patricia Ruiz Navarro, Eduardo Luis Ruiz Solás, María de la Cabeza Sáez Alonso-Muñumer, Pablo Salvá Verd, Antonio Sánchez del Real, Victor Manuel Sánchez García, José María Sánchez Pérez, Caesar Santamaría Ruiz, Luis Sayas López, Sergio Steegmann Olmedillas, Juan Luis Suárez Lamata, Eloy Taken away Ochoa, Vicente Toscano de Balbín, Carla Trias Gil, Georgina Hate Bengoechea, Edurne Utrilla Cano, July Vazquez Blanco, Ana Belén Vega Arias, Ruben Darío I've seen Cantenys, Mireia. Velasco Morillo, Elvira Zambrano García-Raez, Carlos José Zurita Exposito, Ana Maria Abascal Conde, Santiago. Aizcorbe Torra, Juan José Alcaraz Martos, Francisco José Almodóbar Barceló, Agustín Alonso Pérez, José Ángel Alonso-Cuevillas and Sayrol, Jaume Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos, Cayetana Alvarez Fanjul, Beatriz Angle Romero, Maria Teresa Aragonese Mendiguchia, Carlos Back to top García, Inés Asarta Cuevas, Alberto French Ball, Edmundo Bass Corugeira, Javier Nice Accensi, Ferran Beltran Villalba, Ana Maria Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, José Antonio Betoret Coll, Vicente Boadella Esteve, Genís You'll erase Castanyer, Laura. Erras Pabón, Mireia Borrego Cortés, Isabel María Butran Pahissa, Albert Head Houses, Thomas Callejas Cano, Juan Antonio Calvo Liste, Pablo Juan Cambronero Piqueras, Pablo Cañadell Salvia, Concep Cañizares Pacheco, Inés María Fucking beautiful, Eduardo. Married White, Pablo Casaro Ávila, Alberto Castellón Rubio, Miguel Ángel López Castle, Elena Chamorro Delmo, Ricardo Clavell López, Oscar Contreras Peláez, Francisco José Courtesy Carballo, Mario Cruz-Guzmán García, María Soledad De las Heras Fernández, Patricia From Luna Tobarra, Llanos From Meer Méndez, Rocío From Fifth Romero, Marcos Del Valle Rodríguez, Emilio Jesús Delgado Arce, Celso Luis Diaz Gómez, Guillermo Echaniz Salgado, José Ignacio Spain Queen, Carolina Mirror-Saavedra Conesa, José María Spine of the Mounts of Simon, Ivan Esteban Calonje, Cristina Alicia Fernández Hernández, Pedro Fernández Ríos, Tomás Fernández-Lomana Gutiérrez, Rafael Fernández-Roca Suárez, Carlos Hugo Figaredo Álvarez-Sala, José María Bago Bugarín, Diego Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo, Conception Gammazo Micó, Oscar Garcés Sanagustín, Mario García Adanero, Carlos García Díez, Joaquín María García Aegean, Theodoro Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'abstention': Granollers Cunillera, Inés Iñarritu García, Jon Margall Sastre, Joan Matute García de Jalón, Oskar Nuet Pujals, Joan Josep Pozueta Fernández, Isabel Pujol and Farré, Norma Rosique i Saltor, Marta Rufián Romero, Gabriel Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano, Iñaki Salvador i Duch, Jordi Telechea i Lozano, Carolina Vallugera Balañà, Pilar Aizpurua Arzallus, Mertxe Bassa Coll, Montserrat Capdevilla i Esteve, Joan Carvalho Dantas, Maria Eritja Ciuro, Francesc Xavier Ladies and gentlemen who voted 'yes' telematically: Barandiaran Benito, Íñigo Government members in office who said 'yes': Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, Pedro Calvo Poyato, Carmen Delgado García, Dolores Robles Fernández, Margarita Square Mount, Mary Jesus Grand-Marlaska Gómez, Fernando Abalos Meco, José Luis Celaá Diéguez, Isabel Valerio Cordero, Magdalena Maroto Illera, Reyes Planas Puchades, Luis Ribera Rodríguez, Teresa Guirao Cabrera, José Carcedo Roces, María Luisa Duke Duke, Pedro Members of the Bureau who said 'yes': Sánchez Serna, Javier Hernanz Costa, Sofia Pisarello, Prados, Gerardo Elizo Serrano, Maria Gloria Rodríguez Gómez de Celis, Alfonso Batet Lamaña, Meritxell Members of the Bureau who said 'no': Suárez Illana, Adolfo Gil Lazarus, Ignacio Pastor Julián, Ana Maria
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u114	Thank you very much to the four secretaries. Are there any honourable Members who have not been appointed to vote? [[Pause]] Consequently, the votes cast shall be scrutinised. [[Pause]] Made the count, he said
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-05-CD200105.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, 349 votes have been cast. In favour of the candidate, 166; against the candidate, 165; abstentions, 18. Having failed to reach the proposed candidate by an absolute majority, the same proposal should be submitted to a new vote forty-eight hours after the previous one, in accordance with article 99.3 of the Constitution. The plenary session of the House can therefore meet with the legal possibility of deciding from 12:45 p.m. next Tuesday, 7 January. This Presidency therefore calls for the plenary session of the House to be held on Tuesday, 7 January, at 12 noon, to proceed to the second vote on the same proposal, with the expectation that, whatever the course of the debate may be, the vote will in no case begin before 12:45 p.m. on that day. The meeting rose. It was twelve and forty-five minutes from noon.
