ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Sanchez, are you going to respect the rule of law?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u3	Thank you, Mr. Casado. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Of course I do, Mr. Married; I have always done it and I will always do it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u5	Mr. White Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u6	Mr Sánchez, a month ago he promised for his conscience and honour to keep and keep the Constitution as a fundamental rule of the State, a Constitution which now avoids naming, but which in its article 9 subjects all citizens and all public authorities to the legal order, all, including you and your partners, to those who took his dream away and now require him to misjudge politics, to those whom he compared with Le Pen and now pleads and even bows to them. Respect for the rule of law is not to appoint in the Office of the Attorney-General a socialist deputy famous for her ties to a plot of illegal police extortion, nor is it to call tricks to court sentences that she does not like or frown on the resolutions of the Central Electoral Board with which she disagrees, nor is it to repeatedly violate and lie about the links with the geriatrics of a criminal dictatorship according to the United Nations. By the way, let's see if your Minister of Development and your Minister of the Interior agree on what happened in Barajas and already scandalizes the whole of the European Union. Nor is the rule of law respected by changing the Criminal Code to the order of a prisoner for sedition to pardon him through the back door in exchange for his support of the budgets, nor by subverting national sovereignty - also the representativeness of this House - at a negotiating table of self-determination with an disabled prisoner who is already usurping public functions. Mr Sánchez, we have already seen that for you the gravity of a coup to the state depends on what you need from the coupts, but you are already exceeding the limits, even the laxities that you usually have. It cannot be said in Spain that the law is not enough, because where the law is not enough democracy doubles its cervix. When the law says that you are not enough, what happens is that there is a political system in which - as a democracy - you may or may not agree with that law, but you will never be able to disobey it. Remember what Kennedy said in another situation of insurrection: If one were to reach the point where anyone by force or threat could challenge the commandments of justice and the Constitution, no law would be free of doubt, no judge would be sure of his mandate and no citizen would be safe even from his neighbors. You, no matter how much you look in the mirror, are not Kennedy, but in time you are not following Maduro's steps, returning to respect for institutions and the rule of law. Mr Sánchez, comply with the law and enforce it, which is not much to ask for in democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u7	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Casado, I understood that after two general elections last year and having lost five elections in one year you were going to change at least the opposition strategy, but I see that it remains relevant to the opposition strategy of chrispation or confrontation. [[protests]] Take a look back, Mr. Married. You talk about the territorial issue. Take a look back and see what has happened during these last seven years of administration of the People's Party: two illegal referendums, Mr Casado, a unilateral declaration of independence, imprisoned politicians and so many others fled. The balance sheet is unfortunate. [[Rumors]] No one has won, Mr. Married. [[Protests]] No one has won; he has lost democracy, he has lost politics. We are facing a collective failure, unfortunately led by a People's Party Administration over the past seven years. Mr Casado, we have only two options, two alternatives to be able to solve this issue, like many others that we have ahead: the first is to continue with the confrontation, with the rift and with the confrontation that have led us to the greatest social and coexistence fracture in Catalonia and throughout the country; the second, to give a chance to re-encounter, dialogue and agreement, Mr Casado. I invite you to join the dialogue and the agreement, Mr Casado, because territorial dialogue is as important as dialogue between the Government and the opposition. We have a lot of things we can work on together: we can talk about Catalonia, we can talk about the Toledo Pact, we can dialogue and agree on a new renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, we can talk about autonomous financing. Mr. Married, make a state opposition, don't be the echo of the far right. [[Protests]] Be the echo and voice of those millions of Spaniards who voted for a moderate option in the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Mr Casado, make a useful opposition, loyal to Spain and the Spanish. Look, the question that you will have to answer during these four years of the legislature is where you and the People's Party are going to be: in confrontation, in dialogue, in chryspation or in agreement? If you are willing to be brave, not to be dragged by those who want to take you to an extremist drift and want to dialogue and meet to solve many of the problems that we have ahead as a society, I hold your hand in this legislature. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON SANTIAGO ABASCAL CONDE, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: Has the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, Mr Ábalos, met with the Vice-President of VENEZUELA, Ms. DELCY RODRIGUEZ, AT THE AEROPUERTO MADRID-BARAJAS ADOLAREZ AND OUT OF THE AVION by express instructions from the GOVERNMENT PRESIDENT? [[File number 180/000005]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u9	Question by Mr Santiago Abascal Conde, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u10	Very good morning. Mr Sánchez, did the Minister of Transport, Mr Ábalos, meet at the airport of Barajas, with the vice president of the narco-government of Venezuela, allowing his entry into Spain and at the same time preventing his arrest, on express instructions from the president of the government?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u12	Mr Abascal, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ábalos did his duty, which was to avoid a diplomatic crisis with his intervention. [[Laughs.-Speaks.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u13	Mr. Abascal Count.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u14	Mr. Sánchez, you have shown all this time such a lack of scruples and such a lack of repentance at the time of lying that, when you came here thinking that you had to ask a question, you did not know if you were incurring an act of political innocence. You have lied to the socialist voters, committing a gigantic fraud in relation to the pacts you were going to have after the elections, why don't you now lie to the sides of VOX and, by the way, to all the Spaniards? [[Rumors]] This is very easy, Mr. Sanchez. A Spanish minister - who has already given a thousand and one versions and probably will give some more -, at dawn, comes to the airport of Barajas to receive the minister of a drug addiction and prevents him from being arrested on Spanish soil, in the vip room; by the way, of an illegal government - that of Venezuela - that has driven yesterday Juan Guaidó and his wife on his arrival in Caracas. [[a lady MP: Lie!]] What has happened in Madrid is very simple. Mr Sánchez, if you gave the order, resign; if the order was given by your vice president - who is Maduro's deputy -, resign both; if Mr Ábalos acted freely, he better leave; if the order was given to all of you, you can all go together. In any case, it is also an act of innocence, when not of political virginity, to think that you will assume no responsibility whatsoever. You have arrived at that blue bank walking and riding about fraud and lying to the Spaniards, illegitimately, because it is not yet illegal to lie to the Spaniards and therefore everything is in order: from illegitimate government to illegal government of Venezuela, from illegitimate government to meeting with the illegal president and disabled of an autonomous community. That is why you will come out here today - you have already advanced it in the answer that you gave to Mr Casado - ready to delegitimize 4 million Spaniards who want to turn into hate criminals to hide you who are in league with the communists, with the separatists and with the protera. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u15	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Anyway, I know that the President of the Government's word for you is worthless... [[Rumors]] I will remind you what Mr Guaidó said, Mr Abascal, to see if this is the way we all agree. Mr Guaidó said precisely: We have the best relations with Spain; Spain is ally of democracy, of freedom; I hope and am sure that it will be maintained in this way, and we will continue to insist on working with everyone. That is, Mr Abascal, it is quite clear what the position is in this case of the opposition leader in Venezuela. Therefore, why do you bring this matter here? Look, you care as much about Venezuela as about Spain, that is, nothing. What you do is use Spain and Venezuela to do the only thing you know how to do, which is noise; noise, Mr Abascal. [[Applauds]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the far right even moves us, because they pretend to be friends of Venezuela - I understand, then, that also of Venezuelans - but, instead, here you stigmatize immigrants and say that they are the main cause of all the evils of Spanish society. [[Applauds]] You claim to be patriots, and what you do is run behind and practice parallel diplomacy with, for example, some groups in Bolivia that only do stigmatize the action and democracy of the country to which you aspire to represent. [[Several Members: Hala!]] You say, Mr Abascal, that you are a political party defending Spain; of course you are, but financed with Iranian money. [[Applauds]] Many explanations will have to be given by you, Mr Abascal. Look, Mr Abascal, the interest of the Government of Spain is genuine, it is for the reunion, democracy and reconciliation of Venezuela. [[Rumors]] The interest your group has in Venezuela or the love you supposedly profess to Spain is as false as Mrs Monastery's visas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u17	Thank you. - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT ACTIVITIES IS THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT PROVIDED FOR TO BREAK THE WATER OF FASCISM IN THE STATE? [[File number 180/000013]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u18	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. President. What action has your Government planned to take to curb the rise of fascism? [[Laughter]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u20	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Rufián, we have placed democratic memory, ladies and gentlemen, at the level of state policy; yesterday the Vice-President said that at her first appearance in the Senate. I believe that democratic memory must be a state policy and must be a cross-cutting policy. It is also a policy in which, rightly, we have to claim not only the contribution of those people who were killed during the Franco dictatorship to democracy that today protects us, but also, without a doubt, the recognition of this government - and I am convinced that of the majority of this House - to the relatives of those people who are still looking for the remains of loved ones in many counties in our country. Of course, the Government of Spain will invest economic resources in order to obtain the exhumation of the remains of those loved ones. During the last few months we have done many things in favour of democratic memory, others we will do throughout the legislature. For example, we are going to amend and update the Historical Memory Act, because, precisely, during these last years of implementation we have found some gaps that we need to correct. Obviously, clarifications have been raised in the Congress of Deputies and, in particular, in the Bureau on a dossier, namely that of the famous Billy the Child. The Government of Spain wants the greatest transparency and the greatest reparations of memory and justice for the victims of Francoism. In this regard, Mr Rufián, we will also make amendments to the law on democratic memory in order to put an end to the recognition that, unjustly, democracy has given to people linked to Francoism and who tortured human beings in our country. [[Applauds]] Finally, in relation to one of the issues that is important for Esquerra Republicana, which is the judgment of Lluís Companies, I must remind you that in the Council of Ministers that we held in Barcelona last year one of the issues that we raised was the declaration and recognition of the figure of Lluís Companies and to denounce the judgment to which it was submitted. I understand that you too have some issue to raise in the law of democratic memory; let's talk about it, let's talk about it. I am convinced that the joint work that we can do will benefit from that democratic memory that represents the two political families - many of whom are here too - and, above all, the strengthening of Spanish democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u22	Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. There are things he says that obviously sound very good. We look forward to the best of this Government. We will follow the wake of the immense Joan Tardà. They will have us as watchmen of that future democratic law or of historical memory. I think there are many kinds of fascism. We could basically identify three. One terribly dangerous, for obvious reasons: the one who killed Enrique Ruano, Sonia Rescalvo, Guillem Aguló, Aitor Zabaleta, Carlos Palomino. That, for obvious reasons, is terribly dangerous. Another bulwark, which we have very present and very close, even at the physical level: the one that denies rights, the one that is recorded with subfusiles in shooting fields. [[Laughter]] And another, which is the worst of all: the tie, the toga and the uniform, which protects the other two. I urge you, as I did over a year ago, to make the left once and for all, because it is the best antidote against these people. First of all, we must bring to this House a law of historical memory that basically dignifies the memory of 120,000 people still in the canes, eighty years later, to shame many people. Secondly, decisions of murderous, fascist and Francoist courts must be annulled. And third, we must eliminate once and for all a fascist mausoleum in the capital of the kingdom, called the Valley of the Fallen. And I ask you to begin with two things that you have half announced, but that I want you to concretely: one, that you once and for all withdraw the medals from a recognized, fascist and Francoist torturer, named Antonio González Pacheco, aka Billy el Niño, for his symbolic charge - then many others will come - and two - of course, it is very important for all Catalan republicanism - that once and for all the memory of the only democratically elected president and murdered with impunity for fascism in Europe will be dignified: our president, President Lluís Companys. They're ideas, good ideas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u24	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. - OF THE DEPUTY THEODOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: HOW ARE THE POLICIES OF THE 2030 AGENDA TO COORDINATE? [[File number 180/000012]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u25	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Churches, welcome. Good to see you! You've moved from the shirt sleeves to the American, from the bike to the official car, from the backpack to the wallet. I see you well, but being there today has cost Mr Sánchez eleven months, Podemos ten seats and, worse, Spain has cost him the lay-off of 14,000 young people, the employment of more than 20,000 women, the employment of more than 30,000 farmers, farmers who have more reason to be on the street today than you have to be there. It has taken almost a year, ladies and gentlemen, to form the government of all against Spain, one of the most numerous in democracy, a government in which never so many owe so much to so few. And with this scenario, how will they coordinate the objectives of the 2030 Agenda? [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u27	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Don Teodoro, thank you very much for your question. I welcome your interest in the objectives of the 2030 Agenda. Sustainable development goals, as you know, have to do with social justice, climate change and gender equality. There will be a delegation committee, which will chair this Vice-President, to coordinate the implementation in our country of what is known as lever policies, so that our country becomes an example of sustainable development policies. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u29	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u30	Mr. Iglesias, after so many years against the system you have decided to fully enter the system and have invented elite communism. Before, the means of production were distributed and now the ministries were distributed. In addition, you have a problem, because Mr Sánchez, trying to minimize his role, has given him a portfolio of maximum exposure, but of minimal competences. If you want to build on climate change or the energy transition, ask Mr Sevilla how her partner, Teresa Ribera, spends it. I'd recommend another kind of strategy. For example, tell the Foreign Minister what the position is on Venezuela, tell or explain to Minister Marlaska what is Spanish soil or try to get Mr Ábalos to say once and for all a truth that only you know. I really hope you will coordinate successfully the objectives of the 2030 Agenda, but it will be difficult, because equality is not that there are first and second Spaniards, as you claim with the table with Esquerra; because sustainability is not to take a Falcon away from concert and because decent employment and decent work, which is the eighth objective of the 2030 Agenda, is not to destroy 240,000 jobs only in January. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no coordinator in this government. It is a government that already has a last name in less than a month. The one of Zapatero was the crisis; the previous of Sánchez, the ERE of Andalusia, the biggest corruption case in the history of Spain, and this, the one of Zapatero, the one of Sánchez and the one of Iglesias, will be remembered as the government of lies. [[rumors]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u31	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Don Teodoro, I appreciate the tone. Unfortunately, the chasm has become something common in this House and its ironic tone I think is healthy in a context of parliamentary courtesy, but let me tell you that the issue you are talking about is a serious one. [[rumors]] I'll read you something: 'Visited areas I suspect many Spaniards would recognize us as part of their country. A poor neighborhood with much worse conditions than a refugee camp. No running water, electricity or sanitation. ... Poverty rates are terribly high. 26.1% of people in Spain and 29.5% of children were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Over 55?% had some degree of difficulty reaching the end of the month. ... The thread was the lack of government support to ensure that people do not unnecessarily experience the worst effects of poverty.' [[Rumors]] What I have read to you is the report, which was published a few days ago, by the United Nations Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights after visiting our country. This rapporteur said that poverty is a political option. What I'm reading here are the results of your government's inefficient economic policy, because you ruled from 2011 to 2018. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u33	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u34	If for one thing this government has opted for a Vice-President of Agenda 2030 that converts the objectives of sustainable development not into a mere declaration, but into effective policies, it is precisely so that our country does not have to be ashamed that a UN rapporteur comes to tell this, Mr García Aegean. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED LAURA BORRÀS CASTANYER, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING THE GOVERNMENT: IS THE GOVERNMENT INVESTED ON 8 JANUARY, THE DEROGATION OF THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 14/2019, ON DIGITAL ADMINISTRATION? [[File number 180/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u35	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mrs Borràs Castanyer, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. I've heard of runaways and cohabitation crises. They don't know. They are MEPs and free citizens in Europe, and for the sake of a crisis of coexistence, that of this House. The Royal Digital Decree-Law was approved by the PSOE government in full electoral campaign, violating seven laws to the brave and without passing through Congress. It was validated in a Permanent Chamber, with the support of PP and Citizens, without debate and without admitting amendments. Of the eight articles it contains, seven could be unconstitutional. The Statute of Catalonia, the Constitution, European directives and fundamental rights are to be found. The Government of the Generalitat and the Parliament of Catalonia have already approved an appeal of unconstitutionality. Once this new government, called progress, is the government considering repealing the Royal Decree-Law on Digital Administration?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u38	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much for your question, Mrs Borràs, which allows me to clarify that our Government is firmly committed to the defence of the rights of all citizens, to the defence of constitutional values and to the proper use of infrastructure by the private sector and by the public sector, and, of course, the real decree-law is perfectly in line with the legal order of our country and the European one. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u39	Mrs. Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u40	It seems that they have not read the reports of Amnesty International or Article 19, which do not think the same precisely, because this decree allows spying on, cutting off any digital communication from the generic concept that many authoritarian regimes use as public order. In this way, the Spanish State joins China, Turkey, Saudi Arabia or Iraq with these practices that are carried out without a judicial mandate. It is not the digital rights model that supports Europe and in no case is it the model that we want for Catalonia and its citizens. Now they say they're opening the dialogue legislature. This is a good opportunity to move from words to deeds. Repeal this decree, accelerate the work for the submission of a new bill compatible with a developed democratic State. United We can, in fact, abstained; I hope it will help us repeal it. In Parliament last week they voted precisely in favour of filing the unconstitutionality appeal; let us hope that they are also consistent here. From Junts per Catalunya we defend the freedom of expression, information, the digital empowerment of citizens and the innovative capacity of administrations; we defend the deployment of fiber optics throughout the territory to guarantee equal opportunities. This decree goes against all this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u41	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u42	Thank you very much. Mrs. Borràs, I'm going to put you in context. The digital transformation of our economy and of our society requires a new approach by the public authorities to all that is the regulation and use of infrastructures, also the protection of the individual and collective rights - I insist - of all citizens and the proper use of networks in the analog world and in the digital world. This implies the need to establish a new regulatory framework that does not in any way refer to the matters you have mentioned. Don't invent, please, it's not about spying, it's nothing like that. Given the interconnection of all our networks, our system is as strong as the weakest link, and that is why we need a coherent policy at national level - I would say even at European level, at world level - to protect ourselves from the new risks, these risks which do not know the limits of the autonomous communities or the borders of the countries. That is why we must act in a coordinated way by all public authorities if we are to really defend the interests of the citizens and that is why we are regulating at national and global level. That is the spirit that guides our Government: protecting the rights of citizens, protecting our democratic values, including the freedom of expression of all citizens, security and the proper use of both physical and digital networks. That is why the Government does not intend to repeal the Royal Decree-Law. However, this is the government of dialogue - the President of the Government has just said this - and therefore our door is absolutely open to all political groups to improve the normative text, so that throughout the legislature we have a legal framework that adapts to new challenges and new risks and that responds to the priorities of the whole society, because it is about having, among all, a secure use of the network that responds to the general interest, that responds to democratic and constitutional values and to the national and European legal order. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DONA ANA BELEN VÁZQUEZ BLANCO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT INSTRUCTIONS DOES THE GOVERNMENT IN THE FORCES AND SAFETY BODIES OF THE STATE FOR THE STRECKED COMPLIANCE OF COUNCIL DECISION 2017/2074 OF 13 NOVEMBER 2017, TO THE PRESENCE OF THE VICE-President OF VENEZUELA ON SPANISH, WHICH HAVE OCCUPATED - BETWEEN OTHERS - THE QUESTIONS OF THE PAST OF THE SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE OF THE UNITED STATES IN VENEZUELA ELIOT ADVIRECTED THAT THE DECISION OF THE EUROPEAN UNION AUTHORITIES MAY BE VIOLATED? [[File number 180/000019]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u43	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Ana Belén Vázquez Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, you have to have a very hard face to say that a diplomatic crisis has been avoided when what you have created is an institutional crisis, covered today in all the newspapers: the 'Delcygate' case. That's why I ask you, Mr. Marlaska, why didn't you go to Barajas instead of sending Mr. Ábalos? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u45	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honour, in answer to your written question and which relates to your comment today, it can only be said that, with regard to the Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Venezuela, this Government, this Minister of the Interior, unlike those times that are very close to you personally, did not give any instructions to the Police. The only instruction given to the police is to comply with the law, and in that case it complied with the law by not allowing the Vice-President, under a ban, to enter the Schengen area. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u47	Mrs. Vazquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, Mr Ábalos says you sent him here. [[shows a cover of the ABC newspaper]] You sent Mr. Ábalos on a commissioner's or comrade's plan to Barajas. You, Minister, led a meeting with number three of the Socialist Party. You, Minister, disallowed the National Police and subordinated it to Commissioner Ábalos. You, Minister, proposed that the National Police should not carry out its duty and that you should allow a person to enter, to whom you are placing a position today, who belongs to a torturing dictatorship, and that he should go through Spanish territory, through the terminals of the airport; moreover, I even believe that he visited duty free. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] You proposed that in the official police cars Mr. Ábalos should be strolled through the airport terminals. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u49	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u50	You, Mr. Marlaska, did not defend the National Police when Mr. Ábalos on a television show blamed the National Police for that lady stepping on Spanish territory, because that day acknowledged that he stepped on Spanish territory. Mr Marlaska, in this farce, in which there was a president - I look at what I am going to say! - who was Mr Iglesias and a vice-president who was Mr Sánchez, in which you were a helper - who defined Mr Ábalos as the role he had - to whom did you owe the due obedience, to the president or to the vice-president? You, in this falsely united charade, have been delegitimized. You've lost all authority. You're afraid of the cops in case you ever give other arbitrary orders again - yes, don't laugh, Mr. Marlaska. You have to be under the law, by minister and by much judge. You, Mr. Marlaska, think if it was worth being the helper in this farce. Since you, Mr. Marlaska, are the helper, give three messages. The first, that the truth will end up knowing. The second, don't rewrite or erase the cameras. And, the third - tell him in the ear, here -, let him leave them for a predator. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u51	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Vazquez, I'll be very brief. It is not a question of making words or speeches. I want to say that this minister to the police and the Civil Guard simply gives them an indication from the first day, from June 7, 2018: compliance with the law. In this case, as in others, the law was enforced. The Vice-President of the Venezuelan Government did not enter the Schengen area. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u53	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u54	What you're saying about the police - I'm going to be very brief and that's the last thing I'm going to tell you - is something very serious. He's saying that the police have prevaricated. [[Several ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: No, no, no!-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u55	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u56	He's saying the police were allowed to receive an alleged illegal and illegitimate order. You're questioning the professionalism of the police, and as long as I'm Minister of the Interior I'm going to put it in your face. [[several ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: No, no, no!]] [[A Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group: Very well!]] We have a very professional cop. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u58	And, in this particular case, I will repeat it and perhaps get into their heads at some point: the Vice-President of the Venezuelan Government did not enter the Schengen area; she had a ban on entry. [[several ladies and gentlemen: Yes entered!-Protests]] And I will tell you that you confuse entry bans with European, international arrest warrants... For that, you have to study a little more. [[Rumors]] But respect the police, respect them. [[A Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group: All right!-Applause]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DIRECTOR OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF ROMERO VILCHES, OF THE VOX PARLAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT OPINION DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN deserve THE INCREASE IN CRIMINALITY IMPULLED BY FOREIGN ORIGINAL GROUPS? [[File number 180/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u59	Question by Mrs Maria de los Reyes Romero Vilches, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Marlaska, how does the Spanish Government view the increase in criminality by groups of foreign origin deserve? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u61	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, in case the data tells you anything, of the criminal acts investigated in 2019, 72?% was committed by Spanish nationals and 28?% was committed by non-Spanish nationals, and even the number of foreigners investigated was lower than in the years 2012-2013. We don't care or look at nationality, at origin, but at crime, and we fight crime. That is why, after the seven- or eight-year cuts of that party with which you are allied, we are investing in security to generate security for the entire citizenry. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u63	Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u64	Thank you very much. Minister, you can answer what you want, logically, but the fact is that the crime report published by the Ministry of the Interior, covering the first nine months of 2019, shows a worrying increase in most crimes committed in Spain. In particular, there is a serious increase in crimes against sexual freedom, which have increased by 11.2 per cent, with a special incidence of the crime of rape. This criminal typology motivated the submission of 1410 complaints, which represents an increase of 8?% over the same period of the previous year. Similarly, according to information provided by different media, robberies have increased in large cities. In central Madrid, for example, this increase has been 200?% -200?%!-. In this sense, media like the ABC newspaper publish police calculations according to which 70?% of those arrested by the National Police in the center of the capital are minas. That is the reality that the Government seems to be upset about being spoken of. However, the ministry you preside over, Mr Marlaska, does not publish data concerning the age, nationality and other personal circumstances of the detainees, concealing them from the Spanish. In order to prevent crime, it is necessary to know the sociological data of the population sectors most likely to commit them: whether they are men, young people or foreigners. In this regard, what is the reason why these data are systematically shunned by public opinion? The Spanish have the right to know which population groups commit the most crimes, so that they can take preventive and corrective measures that effectively protect the victims, especially women, if they really care so much about them. So, Mr. Marlaska, don't tell us about milongas. What you practice is false goodism. What they do is promote trafficking in human beings with their policies of so-called effect. These foster children are expelled from the centres when they reach their age or when they are considered to have reached it, being left homeless in the street... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u65	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I want to reflect with you briefly and give you some data, because I find it quite irresponsible, coming from a public representative, some of your statements: three quarters of the detainees and those investigated are Spanish; the organized crime group committed by foreigners is simply 10?%; 76.3?% of those convicted in our country are Spanish. Sexual offences - sexual assaults as you have said - committed by Spanish are 70?% of those reported. There are currently more crimes of sexual assault reported. Why? Because women no longer tolerate it. [[Applauds]] I would like to stress that encouraging, promoting hoaxes or false news about foreigners is not only a great irresponsibility, it is a manifestation of xenophobia. [[Applauds]] And more so if they are minors, where we need and demand greater protection from all public representatives of all institutions. [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived.- Rumours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u67	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u68	What are we doing to fight crime? As I have told you, more investment in personal and material means; a special plan for the security of the Gibraltar Field, as you well know, and with the results that are obvious; a new national strategy against organized crime; a plan of hate crimes - do hate crimes, xenophobia sound to him?-; an increase in places for the police, and above all the commitment of this Government, is a government committed, with the rights and freedoms of all, of nationals and non-nationals. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u69	Thank you, Minister. Is OF THE DEPUTATE DON Jon IÑARRITU GARCIA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT PREVICES DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO RETURN THE CONDITIONS TO POLICE AGENTS IMPLICATED IN THE CONCULTURATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS, AS THE TORTURER ANTONIO GONZALEZ PACHECO, 'BILLY THE CHILD'? [[File number 180/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u70	Question by Mr Jon Iñarritu García, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u71	Thank you very much, President. Minister, good morning. These days there has been a certain echo of the fact that we have requested the service sheet of the Francoist torturer Billy el Niño, but today we want to go further and ask when and how, that is, how they plan to make possible the withdrawal of decorations and honors from all those police officers who have violated human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u72	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Iñarritu, I would like to point out to you in this regard - yesterday there was already a specific agreement of the Congressional Bureau that you already know - that in the Socialist Party and United Nations Government Agreement We can, in point 5.4, on civil rights, reference was made to a bill of historical memory, which would also regulate the withdrawal of decorations in those persons who attended - of course, justified causes - in particular in an attitude or conduct contrary to constitutional values and principles, either before the concession or after the concession, but we obviously need the legislative framework, which is already provided for. These decorations were granted under pre-constitutional laws of 1964 and 1976, as you well know. We have already registered a law of historical memory, article 12 of which provides for the possibility of revocation and the procedure in this regard. It is published in the General Courts Bulletin of 31 January, and I hope that your parliamentary group will support the process in a quick way so that we can materialize that possibility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u74	Mr. Iñarritu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Marlaska, with regard to this legal change we and we see no problem; we will support the withdrawal of the Francoist torturers - of course - any decoration and any benefit. I believe, however, that it should be extended more extensively than to those who torture Francoism, because it should be borne in mind that in the Basque context during the constitutional period the vast majority of agents who have been convicted of torture or dirty war were pardoned, ascended and decorated. For example, there is the case of the colonel of the Civil Guard, Mr. Sánchez Corbí, who was decorated by his ministry and during his term of office, or Mr. Abdellatif Hammouchi, the Moroccan superintendent who is persecuted for the disappearances and tortures of hundreds of Saharans. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] Ultrasounds and cacophonies are heard. [[Laughter]] In fact, there is another problem, and it is that medal concessions remain problematic. The same police unions told him last week that there were problems with the 322 medal awards to the agents of Operation Icaro, last October in Catalonia. By the way, an operation in which there were four Catalan citizens who lost an eye and another citizen who lost a testicle. Are you going to investigate those facts or have you decorated any of those agents? Because I think it is problematic that decorations be decorated or maintained not only for those agents of Francoism, but for those who do today the same thing that the Franco police did or that Billy the Child did. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u76	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Iñarritu, I would like to reiterate that there is a proposal for a law registered by the Socialist Party where it is envisaged that all those persons, regardless of the historical pre- or post-constitutional moment in which they have been decorated and can be proved in a contradictory file, who have omitted constitutional values or that constitutional values or principles are not part of their skins, can be removed from them. I hope that in the legislative process you too will be able to enrich that proposal and we will reach a consensus. Regarding Operation Icaro and the performance of the National Police in October and November in Barcelona, perfectly coordinated with the Mossos d'Esquadra and the Civil Guard, let me finish by congratulating you again for your work. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY MARIA VALENTINA MARTINEZ RARO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: OF ALL THE VERSIONS THAT HAVE OFFERED ON YOUR FINDING WITH THE RODRIGUES IN THE AIRPORT OF BARAJAS, IS THERE ANY TRUTH? [[File number 180/000018]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u78	Questions to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by María Valentina Martínez Ferro, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u79	Thank you, President. Mr. Ábalos, of all the versions that have been offered about your meeting with Delcy Rodriguez at Barajas Airport, is there any that is true? Let me sum them up a little bit because we're probably all lost. In the first, you strongly denied going to Barajas Airport to receive Delcy, because the one you were going to receive was a close friend of yours, Minister of Tourism, and in fact you didn't even greet her. Then he told us that he had greeted her, but in a quick, protocol, forced, fortuitous way. In the third version it turns out that the one who sent her was Minister Marlaska with the mission of not getting her off the plane. In the fourth version you have twenty-five minutes of meeting with her inside the plane and, after those twenty-five minutes, you don't get the Marlaska mission and make her get off the plane, but, yes, without stepping on Spanish soil, which is what Mr Sánchez has described today as a diplomatic mission; it's almost a miracle to get her not to step on Spanish soil and get off the plane. Then we go to the fifth, which is when once she arrives at the airport meets with her another twenty-five minutes; today they say that an hour. And the last version, which is what we have today, is that it was not even invited by Marlaska but mandated by the Presidency of Government. What are you hiding from all this? Why are you lying so much? What's he hiding or who's he hiding? Mr. Sanchez? To Mr. Churches? Mr. Zapatero? Mr. Maduro? I ask you not to take this as a punishment, but as an opportunity for redemption, and tell us a truth, which sometimes makes free. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u80	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u81	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Martínez, over these days, indeed, there have been not only many versions but many more interpretations and many clearly confessed purposes. [[Rumors]] But the important thing, beyond the details that worry you... if you ask me, I imagine you'll expect some answer. [[Rumors]] [[A Member of Parliament: Yes!]] If what they want is to listen to themselves, I have no problem. [[Applauds]] The important thing, what you would have to worry about is what I think I modestly got. One, that the restrictions of the Council of Europe's decisions that this woman should not enter Schengen territory were complied with: achieved; and two, that she should not add any more problems with a government, with which - let us not forget - we have diplomatic relations with ambassadors who, by the way, restored Mr Rajoy. [[rumors]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u82	Mrs. Martinez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u83	Mr. Ábalos, I don't care about your credibility because it is believed that you are a liar. What worries me is Spain's credibility with our European partners, with our Latin American partners and with the United States. Do you know who you met in Barajas? With a lady who has European Union sanctions for human rights violations, for human rights violations, who has imprisoned people of the party, of the Socialist International, of his colleagues, of those who torture in prison. Something you should say about this, right? There's also... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u85	Mrs. Martinez, the truth is, despite everything, I appreciate the tone. It's been the softest thing I've heard all this time. [[Laughter]] I have to thank you and, moreover, it is very convenient that it comes from you, who is responsible for the international relations of the People's Party and, as such, to whom these relations are concerned, this very thing you have said. But, of course, the problem is that you have questioned Spain's credibility, not so much mine, as I am an instrumental peak. [[Mr. De Olano Vela: Not from Spain, yours!- Rumors]] You've wanted to confront us in the United States... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u86	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u87	... at a time when the tariffs of many Spanish products are at stake. You wanted to enmity us with our partners in the European Union, making a mockery of it yesterday afternoon. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u88	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u89	You want to exacerbate our difficulties in achieving the true purpose that should unite us all, which is democracy, peace and respect for rights in Venezuela. [[Applauds]] I remember, and this hurts me, a meeting in Geneva with Mr Echaniz and the Venezuelan opposition. There was an atmosphere of unity between the opposition and the Government, and there was unity between the Venezuelan opposition. Too bad today, a year or so later, there's no unity here, no unity there! [[Applause. - Several ladies and gentlemen: Resignation! Resignation!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. BELEN TODAY JULIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WHAT DEMOCRATIC IMPLICATIONS HAVE THE AFIRMATION: 'I HAVE COME TO STAY AND NOT EVEN ME'? [[File number 180/000015]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u91	Question by Mrs Belén Hoyo Juliá, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u92	Mr. Ábalos, your contradictions are palmarias and your turns, Copernicans. You're lying. Too bad we don't have a lie detector in this House because you wouldn't pass the polygraph test. [[Applauds]] But a few days ago, between lying and lying, you missed a truth: that you had arrived to stay and that you did not throw anyone away. I will tell you that you are wrong, because both you and the rest of us here are the citizens who can throw us away with your vote, because we are in a democracy and not in a dictatorship like that imposed by your friends and those that support your government partners. Mr. Ábalos, your words are shameful and also threatening. Who were you threatening? To Mr. Churches? Mr. Sanchez? What do you know about your boss that makes you so much tremble? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u93	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u94	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Hoyo, I regret that your debut in this new legislature as a Valencian representative, as I do, is on a subject like this. We have so many problems in our land, I have to account for so many things about our land, that the one you wear your turn on this issue...! But, on the other hand, I am glad because it means that among your priorities the important thing is what you propose and everything else occupies a second place. Fortunately, Spain is doing very well, according to you, and that is why we need to talk about another country. But if you are concerned exactly with the content of your question, what I can tell you is that this minister and the government of which he is a member have a strong commitment to democracy and the Spanish Constitution. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u95	Mrs. Hoyo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u96	Mr. Ábalos, what are you telling us? If Netflix could do a series with everything that's been going on these weeks! The first season could have seven chapters that could correspond to the seven versions of what you have told in Barajas. And the second season, which started with Zapatero whitening Maduro's dictatorship, maybe he could end up with Delcy in Quintos de Mora spending a weekend with you and Mr. Iglesias. [[Applauds]] That's right, I'm telling you, in case you don't know, Toledo is Spanish soil. Mr. Ábalos, you are not paid to do night trips to meet an international criminal, you are not paid to wear the gabardine and play the spies; you are paid to carry out the powers of your ministry and to solve the problems of all citizens. Mr. Ábalos, you're mistaken if you believe that your lies and your deceptions to the Spaniards are not going to pass you a bill. We are in a consolidated democracy and, of course, we are not going to swallow either with their lies or with their abuses of power or with their cacicadas. Mr. Abalos, you're going to fall. And why do we know that? Because like in every show, just like in every movie, it always ends up dropping the messenger. Mr. Ábalos, if you don't think anyone's going to throw you, resign now. Quit being a liar. [[Applause. - Several ladies and gentlemen: Resignation! Resignation!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u97	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u98	Thank you, President. I don't know, anyway, if you get paid for what you just said... [[Laughter and applause]] We're wasting it, aren't we? We're leaving. Look, I'm going to go to the tenor of your question, which I finally imagine is what moved you, the worry about this expression of 'I've come to stay and no one throws me'. I want you to know in what context I did it, at a party meeting and, of course, I went back to 1976, in which I began my political commitment. What do I mean, then? As a minister, you already know who can throw me out, who appoints and ceases, who is the president of the government. And with regard to my seat, as with you, the voters, that is clear. What no one is going to throw me out of - and that is what I meant - is my political commitment that I acquired in 1976. [[Applauds]] You'll find it odd, I can understand it, because it's a matter of values and maybe it's hard for you to understand. Especially do you know why? [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel: Talk about Delcy, talk about Delcy]] Because you were born after that year, and you have thought that that democracy you invoke is that of all life, it is normal. But I'm telling you, in 1976, the vast majority of us here couldn't be because we were illegal. [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel: Delcy, talk about Delcy]] You don't understand that. [[Applauds]] Well, that commitment I'm talking about, and that commitment is not going to throw anyone at me. [[Rumors]] I remind you of my commitment.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u99	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u100	My commitment is for the struggle for democracy in this country, for freedom, for justice, for solidarity and against fascism. That's my commitment. [[Applause. - Several ladies and gentlemen: Resignation! Resignation!]] - OF THE DEVELOPED FRENCH BALDE, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: CAN YOU, MINISTER, EXPLAIN THE DIFFERENT VERSIONS THAT YOU HAVE DATED FROM YOUR FINDING WITH DELCY RODRIGUEZ? [[File number 180/000003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u101	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u102	Mr. Abalos, look, you've got so much to do with the matter called 'Abalos case' that in two and a half minutes it's absolutely impossible to question you about all of your legwork. [[Laughter]] Will you continue to deny us a Commission of Inquiry that will clarify these facts when, precisely, thanks to Citizens, even the European Parliament will investigate whether Spain has failed to comply with Mrs Delcy's ban on entry into the national territory, within the Schengen area? Look, take note and please answer the Spanish. You went to see your friend Plasencia. Oh, no, no! You had to have a casual encounter with Delcy. Oh, no!, which met after twenty-five minutes; The Country says this morning that you met one hour. Did they talk about President Guaidó, who now calls the President of the Government of Spain leader of the Venezuelan opposition? Did you talk about Leopoldo Lopez's case? Were you on behalf of Mr Marlaska, on behalf of Mr Iglesias, on behalf of Mr Sánchez? Look, like the old TV commercial said, and what does Zapatero think of all this? Did you get the target? In 14 hours Mrs. Delcy didn't get off the plane? If he got off the plane, he went to the VIP room flying through the Spanish air. [[Laughter]] Did you meet with her for twenty minutes, did you talk about something or do you take a long time to say good-bye? Did you instruct the police not to complete Mrs. Delcy's entry into official Spanish territory, as you say? [[Laughter]] I don't get stunned, I'm still after the commercial. [[Laughter and applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u103	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u104	Thank you, President. Mr. Bal, a new account that you incorporate into this topic, properly recreated, has strived in humor and is fine because it is distasteful, prevents those repressions that I have heard before as full of arguments as is the cry. I regret that today you have one question, one question to control the session. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: do not answer!]] Spain has very little interest in them, they are interested in Venezuela. They already have an explanation, they don't need to do much analysis on why they've stayed in ten. Keep it that way and clear up the matter. [[Applauds]] You say it happened yesterday in Europe. In Europe they simply did the ridiculous thing, because a national debate - the one we have here today - wanted to bring it as an appetizer yesterday, with desirousness, the disinterest of the whole of the European Parliament, where only two of the rest were Spanish. That is the great success of the European contribution of you, of the supposed liberals; you left them alone in Europe. That's the big problem. [[Applauds.-A lady MP: Answer!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u105	Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u106	Was the international conflict that you helped resolve between Spain and Venezuela, between Venezuela and another country, between Venezuela and the European Union, between Spain and the European Union? Did you know that this lady was going to enter Spain, and as minister of airports, did not prohibit the plane from entering Barajas, diverting it, for example, to Morocco? In your new position as Minister of Foreign Affairs, will you defend the rights of Venezuelans and free elections without Maduro, recognizing Juan Guaidó as the legitimate president of Venezuela? Did you know that plane was carrying gold? Do you know that you also had a ban on flying over airspace? Will the commission of inquiry continue to deny us? Please do the Spanish and the Government a favour: resign. Oh, no, he's here to stay. You wouldn't talk to Delcy about how to stay with Mr. Maduro, would you? Because that would scare us so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u107	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u108	Thank you, President. Anyway, Mr. Bal, it is noted that you are passing through this story, tomorrow you will be in another game, what we will do to you. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] I have achieved two things - if you have said so yourself - I have achieved two things: one, which does not set foot on Schengen territory, is put in the right way; two, I have managed not to have any more problems in the diplomatic sphere of relations with a Government which, by the way, if we want free, democratic, monitored, observed elections to be held between the parties, cannot be done unilaterally, unless you are thinking of some kind of coup or something of these. But, as we must do well, democratically and following European policy, we have done so. Now, you've done another recreation that surprised me, because you're a state attorney. You know that this is not Community law, we are talking about restrictions on the European Council, and therefore there is no body to appeal to or sanctions for. Consequently, the application of this restriction, which is not a sanction, is done by each Member State. You also know that in airspace it is not exactly the same as on land as the international term is, and you have invoked legal grounds that are absolutely false. There was no reason to arrest this lady, no reason to arrest her. And what bothers me - and the Minister of the Interior has said - is that you insinuate that our police is likely to be handled by a minister who above has no ladder of hierarchy... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u109	Thank you, Minister. - Mr Joseba Andoni Agirretxea Urresti, the Parliamentary Group, which gives the Minister of Health a form: what have the steps taken by the Government to solve the problems of the supply of some medicinal products? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000010]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u110	Question addressed to the Minister for Health. Question by Mr Joseba Andoni Agirretxea Urresti, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u111	Thank you, Madam President. I am going to talk about a problem that is much more of a concern to citizens, which is the problem of the supply of certain medicines that, from a time to this part, we are suffering and which seriously affects the entire citizenry. Moreover, according to data from the Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Sanitary Products, it seems that the problem rather than being solved has been aggravated in recent times, so we are dealing with an issue that has already been chronicled. In fact, in May 2019 the agency launched the Drug Supply Plan 2019-2022, which in its analysis of the situation says at a given time: the number of notifications of supply problems grows every year. It does not seem that the actions implemented are succeeding in reversing the upward trend of these problems. Therefore, Minister, we ask you the question that we consider to be a problem for all citizens: what steps have been taken to solve this problem and what results have been achieved?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u112	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Agirretxea, the Government, along with the Autonomous Communities, is developing the plan you have referred to to to address this situation, the Drug Supply Guarantee Plan 2019-2022, which, as you know, was approved by the plenary of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System in May last year. This plan includes a set of measures that can be grouped into four axes. The first axis is prevention, with the early detection of these situations. The second axis consists in improving management tools to provide and obtain therapeutic alternatives. The third axis is to inform professionals and patients, and the fourth axis is to work in coordination with other countries in the European environment. These measures are working. I want to provide you with some data here. According to the latest report of the Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Sanitary Products, of the more than 32,000 authorised submissions only 2.6% in the second half of 2019 presented problems, and in almost all of these cases there were therapeutic alternatives available. In the same second half of 2019 there was a 20% reduction in cases; 761 cases were presented to us compared to 940 cases in the first half. I sincerely believe that the measures are working. And thirdly - and this is particularly relevant - the number of cases in those drugs used in critical situations has been reduced, and the time for supply interruption has also been reduced. I think we need to keep working on the same line. It is not just a Spanish problem, it is a global one, and we must work on developing the plan that we adopt in cooperation with the autonomous communities and European partners. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u114	Mr. Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u115	Thank you, Minister. Our question was recorded on the 6th day, and the next day, casually, his ministry released a press release informing of the actions carried out. That's effectiveness. Unfortunately some voices feel that it is a little toast to the sun that Drug Supply Plan that you have shown, but our group wants it not to be so, because its implementation we want it to improve the situation that we are suffering from. We are well aware that we are faced with a multifactorial problem, which does not affect only one issue, which is due to many causes, but they had to have been on the wall for a long time - as is said - to defend the general interests. Medicines are not a whim of anyone, they are the needs of citizens. In the press release you have taken, they say you have opened six sanctioning files. We would like to know what the reasons for opening these files have been, if prevention plans have been required for marketing authorisation holders who have generated supply problems, how many have been... It is also said that Brexit can somehow affect this supply problem, and we would also like to know whether the Spanish agency has already carried out any drug-to-drug studies of the reason for the lack of supply. So there are many questions I could ask you if you had more time. And it must also be seen that this problem...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u116	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Agirretxea, for the tone of your speech and for focusing on this issue, which is indeed a problem that we have to address. I sincerely believe that the plan that was adopted last May - I insist, with all the autonomous communities - is a plan that is yielding results. As you said very well, this is a multifactorial problem, which affects not only Spain, but all European countries. We will continue to develop this plan which we approved in its day, we will continue to have a policy of absolute transparency in this regard, and we will continue to work in cooperation not only with the autonomous communities, but also with European partners and international bodies in regulatory convergence in order to avoid such problems. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANGEL LÓPEZ MARAVER, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD: WHAT MEASURES TO ADOPTE THE GOVERNMENT TO Satisfy THE LEGAL REFUNDS OF THE SPANISH RURAL WORLD? [[File number 180/00004]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u118	Question to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Question by Mr Ángel López Maraver, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u119	Good morning, Mr. Planas. What steps will the Government take to meet the legitimate demands of the Spanish rural world?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u120	Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, the last few weeks have witnessed the mobilization of our farmers and farmers, as in France or Germany, in demand of fair prices for the food they produce and also for their work, and I want to say that this Government shares these legitimate requests and we are working to resolve them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u122	Mr. López Maraver.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u123	Mr Planas, all this that tells me to you will seem very good, but the reality is very different: the rural world is dying. It is dying for those policies that they have carried out during the decades in which they have ruled, putting in the field sticks and more sticks, and then European bureaucracy transformed into legislative formulas that have suffocated the inhabitants of the rural world. The men and women in the countryside are demanding dignity, and that dignity is being trampled on by trade agreements between the European Union and third countries, where a slave labour force is being used, where the conditions for producing are much simpler than those which mark the union. The dignity of our farmers and farmers is also being trampled on, forcing them to sell below the cost of production, which then see their product on large areas at a price sometimes exceeding 600?%. The rural world is dying and the global model of production, which they say is going to be more respectful of the environment and the climate - which will have to be seen - is killing it. Agriculture, livestock and the traditional uses of the rural world guarantee the generational relief and fix the populations in our field, but this is also being taken care of. They are being charged with autonomous policies of removing schools, eliminating doctors and ceasing to have assistance in small populations and in rural areas. You have put in fashion that of Spain emptied, emptied by you, by the farmers of the living room, those who walk in carol shoes through the walks of the European bureaucracy, who do not know how to distinguish a straight from a tudanca or a sail, and by the ecologists of the living room who hunt subsidies, who do not distinguish a squatting from a deaf or a muflon. Mr Planas, finally, Teruel already exists, who has given them the vows, but the Bierzo, the Pedroches, Somiedo, the Alcarria, the Monegros, the Sierra de Maria, the mountains of Toledo, and so many places of our Spain that die. Mr Planas, listen to the people of the countryside, to our traditions, to our culture and above all to our food, even to the food you eat, which depends on them. Thank you very much, Mr. Planas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u124	Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, we are working with professional agricultural organisations, with cooperative agri-food companies, with agri-food companies and with agri-food distribution companies. For what? To solve a serious problem, that of the volatile prices and the low prices that our farmers and farmers receive, and to achieve a good CAP for the period 2021-2027 that supports them, and we are doing it honestly. To their party last week, on a Wednesday like today, farmers and farmers threw them out of a demonstration because they didn't want them to be supplanted and with them. [[Protests.-Applause.]] That's the reality. Farmers and farmers deserve to work honestly for them and not to pretend to use them politically, as you do. This is a call to all groups in the House, including you: let us respect our farmers and farmers. On their occurrences I have to say that the CAP is on average 30% of the income support of farmers and farmers. As for closing Spain's borders, you are looking at Spain from 1950 and not at that of 2020, Spain struggling to have a future in agriculture and livestock that is economically, socially and environmentally sustainable. That is why this Government is working and will continue to work: to achieve a good result in the negotiations of the next common agricultural policy, as well as the support that our farmers and farmers deserve, because they certainly do not deserve to be manipulated in any way, as you intend to do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. CAROLINA SPAIN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DOING: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT'S INFORMATION TRANSPARENCY VALUE IN RODRIGUES AFFAIRS? [[File number 180/000016]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u126	Questions to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. Question from the representative of Carolina Spain Queen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u127	Good morning. This was a question for the spokesman minister, Mrs Montero, but it can be seen that yesterday Mr Ábalos was hidden and today they are hiding it from her. Anyway, how do you rate the Delcy Rodriguez case?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u128	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for this government, transparency is a priority for each and every one of its axes of action. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u130	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u131	In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Minister Ábalos, as well as other members of the Government, have provided complete information... [[Rumors.-Protests by a Member of Parliament]] Thank you, Mr. Congressman. I'll keep talking even if you don't let me. He said that Minister Ábalos and the other members of the Government have given complete information on this matter, and again today's session - which has been monographic - I think it is good proof of this. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u132	Mrs. Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u133	What a lock-up you've been made! Is it true that the only thing that happened is that Mr. Ábalos was walking quietly at dawn on the slopes of Barajas and from a plane he was invited up? Or did they warn you to go because Mrs. Delcy Rodriguez was on a plane? What was it, a meeting, a greeting, a date? Do you usually use twenty-five minutes to greet a person? Did Mr Ábalos know that this lady was sanctioned by the European Union for not respecting human rights in his country, and that she is therefore prevented from setting foot on European territory? We're talking about human rights. Is it true that Mr. Pablo Iglesias has imposed on them a new policy, a change in politics about Venezuela, including those twenty-five minutes of greetings to the vice presidents? Don't you realize that the real one who dominates foreign policy now is Podemos? Why did Mr. Ábalos lie so many times? Why did Mr. Ábalos lie so much? The lie has very short legs and very long consequences, and a minister who lies cannot spend another minute in the government. What are you guys hiding? Did the minister also lie to you as he lied to the rest of the Spaniards? Are you going to defend a minister who lies? Are you going to be an accomplice to a minister who doesn't tell the truth? Madam Minister, the lie is not paid for even all the gold in the world. Now I ask you: who are you, Felipe González, who says that Maduro is a dictator, or Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero, who spends more time giving Maduro his hand than his minister Ábalos greeting Ms. Delcy? You have lied and the worst thing you can do in a government is lie. Because of the hygiene of your Government, why don't you ask Mr. Ábalos to resign so that he can go and say hello to Mrs. Delcy as many times as he likes? Madam Minister, Mr Ábalos has to resign as irresponsible, because a minister who lies cannot continue in the government. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well! Resignation! Resignation!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u134	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u135	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Spain, each or every one of you chooses what you mean and how you mean it, obviously. Therefore, you and nothing more than you own your words; also some of your silences, but especially your words and how you say it. In the face of the noise that the bench on this side has chosen, this government offers work. In the face of distraction, what this Government offers are concrete actions and proposals. And in front of you, who take care of it from there, we take care of it from here, the problems of this country. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, I would like to tell you that, despite the noise and distraction, this government and this minister are through dialogue, dialogue and understanding with those who make up this House. You know why? Because we have many issues and many answers to give to the citizenry. I want to talk to you about what you ask me, which is transparency. Your Honor, I want to talk to you about transparency and I want to share with you some of the objectives that this government has and that are the responsibility of this minister. That is why I have answered this question, not because no one wants to hide; rather, contrary to this minister, he will always have it in front of him and with his hand stretched out. I don't know if you will, too, but you will always find me, even to disagree, because both consensus and dissent must be constructive. And I want to share some drafts of this legislative agenda which I believe will play a leading role in this Parliament, such as the amendment of the Transparency Act, which was announced by the President of the Government in the investiture. We have a lot of work to do and I hope to have this House, each and every one of the parliamentary groups, at least this minister will try. Also the impetus to the 4th Open Government Plan, of good governance. I think we have a lot of work ahead of us. And you know why, ladies and gentlemen? To build confidence in citizenship. And this behavior, at least polite on my part - the House is the agora of the word and to speak you have to listen - is the least one can demand: let one listen... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u136	Thank you, Minister. - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MARÍA MAZÓN RAMOS, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHEN THE GOVERNMENT IS GOING TO REALIZE THE REQUIREMENTS TO PAY THE SUBSIDITIONS INCLUDED IN DECRETO 630/2019, OF 31 OCTOBER, WHO DEVELOPMENTED THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 2/2019, OF 25 JANUARY, TO PAY THE DAMAGE CAUSEED BY THE INundATIONS IN CANTABRIA? [[File number 180/000007]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u137	Question by Mr José María Mazón Ramos, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u138	Good morning. Yesterday in the Senate the Minister of Ecological Transition, on questions from a partner of the PRC, announced the investment of 2.5 million in river cleaning. I hope that this ministry will also make it clear that the main function of rivers is to channel the water from the rain, for which nature formed them, and it is necessary that they fulfill that function, because we sometimes forget obvious things. It's a shame the minister just left, but I hope you remember that. It also announced aid for those affected. But today I ask you about the support for your ministry from the floods of late 2018 and early 2019.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u139	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u140	Thank you, President. Mr. Mazón, allow me to begin by showing my solidarity with all the families of the people who died from the last drunken Gloria and those who disappeared. I would also like to highlight the fantastic coordination and collaboration between all the administrations involved in this emergency. With regard to the question you ask me, I have to say that the ministry has, as a matter of urgency, promoted the necessary procedures to pay the subsidies included in Royal Decree 630/2019. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u141	Mr. Mazon.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u142	Thank you for your words, but I also want to tell you the following. Yesterday we approved here a non-law proposal on the occasion of the last storms of this autumn and this winter that we are passing, but in this same Congress another non-law proposal was passed in September, and the result has so far been null and void. I hope that the direct answers of the ministers will be more reliable than the proposals adopted with all the votes of the House, including the parties that support the government, but I remind them of the deadlines. Look at the deadlines: end of 2018 and beginning of 2019, floods; 25 January 2019, decree-law; and 31 October the development decree, i.e. more than nine months later. Today we are on 12 February, it has been another three months and we are still without news. In short, more than twelve months have passed since the decree-law enacted as a matter of urgency and urgency. And I remind you that most of the aid envisaged did not even need the figure of the decree-law, because there are sufficient regulations, but it seems that at the moment the urgency has disappeared. Minister, I hope you will notice your arrival in this ministry. I'll tell you one thing, in Cantabria we're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u143	Thank you, Mr. Mazón. Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mazón, believe me, I have a special appreciation for your land - also for the rest, but especially for yours - and for some of the municipalities that have been recognized in the last royal decree, such as Cillorigo, Camaleño or Cabezón de la Sal. As you know, October 31 is when the municipalities of your region, Cantabria, together with others, are included, and it is from that date when the computation begins. The procedure for the payment of these aids is complex. He knows that there is a prior assessment by the municipalities together with the government delegations, and then different ministries intervene. It is true that we have to try to give more agility to these aids, I acknowledge, and that is going to be our commitment. For this reason, the Directorate-General for Autonomy and Local Cooperation is already working on this budgetary amendment so that, under the Contingency Fund, appropriations for aid can be made available as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware of the importance of this aid to the municipalities concerned in Cantabria, but also to other regions that are waiting for it, because it will agree with me that cooperation is essential, essential in order to be able to work in a competitive system in which the various administrations intervene according to the levels of action of each one. But believe me if I tell you it will be our commitment to deal with the aid requested as quickly as possible so that they can reach their destination. Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Mrs Olona Choclán asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u145	Yes, Mrs. Olona Choclán?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u146	With all due respect, Madam President. Pursuant to Rule 72.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber I intervene to denounce the flagrant violation of Article 103, first paragraph, which occurred on the occasion of the intervention of Mr Iñarritu, Member of the Parliamentary Group EH Bildu, in so far as the decorum, of course, has been seriously lacking, but specifically that of two State institutions, namely the Civil Guard and the National Police, since he stated in his intervention the existence of a systematic practice of torture in the Basque Country by the State Security Forces and Bodies. Very briefly, Madam President, in order to justify the very serious lack of decorum that this statement entails. ETA was defeated by the colonel of the Guardia Civil Sánchez Corbí, who, thank God, did not have to pay with his life that fervent fight against the terrorist organization ETA, until his complete defeat. For this reason, we understand that our Civil Guard and National Police officers should be kept on their mark. They used to shoot at the back of the neck, now they try it from public institutions, like this Congress, to which they have agreed by eating the corruption of the Basque Nationalist Party to try to defeat them from within.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u147	Mrs. Olona, I think you've stayed...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u148	It will be very brief, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u149	...explained enough, and the expression...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u150	Before the Civil Guard and the National Police were mentioned...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u151	...to which he referred...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u152	... EH Bildu has to wash his mouth, and we don't say our hands, because we're never gonna let them bleach...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u153	Thank you very much, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u154	... the history of ETA terrorism. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the VOX parliamentary groups, stood up, and some of the people in Congress]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u155	Thank you very much, Mrs. Olona.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u156	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress to the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda to explain the reasons that led him to hold a meeting with Delcy Rodríguez, the commitments that were made on behalf of the Government of Spain with the regime of Nicolás Maduro and the impact of those commitments on Spain's relations with Venezuela, with the European Union and with our allies. For her defence, Mrs Álvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos has the floor. [[Applauds]] Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Thank you, Madam President. Minister Ábalos, in front of the maze of lies that you have built around your clandestine meeting with a chavista hierarchy sanctioned, a fact is imposed, a cold truth: the Spanish government defended a torturer and despised a Democrat, both in the same week. Yes, Minister, the woman you met, whom you protected, is a torturer who has been banned from entering the European Union and in much of the free world. Delcy Rodríguez, Nicolás Maduro, Diosdado Cabello are the dome of a criminal regime. And yes, Minister, the President of the Government of Spain turned his back on a Democrat, a hero of democracy, a young and courageous man, the legitimate President of Venezuela who yesterday, upon his arrival at Caracas airport, was assaulted by the regime's assassins. We condemn that aggression, we condemn Maduro's drug addiction, and I was going to demand that the Government defend Juan Guaidó, as they deserve his cause and office, but we already know they won't. Today President Sánchez has called Juan Guaidó leader of the opposition. He has ceased to recognize him as president in charge of Venezuela. He has assumed the language of Podemos, of Mr Zapatero and of chavismo himself in the parliamentary seat. It must be the torturer's last demand, because that language is the reflection of politics, a democratic, deleterious and desolating involution for Venezuelans and also for Spanishs. And we demand - I don't know if it will - a public correction by the President of the Government today. [[Applauds]] Although it is also Mr Sánchez, we must think that this is an act of coherence. Why would Venezuela be different from Catalonia? Mr. Sanchez always chooses criminals from among his allies. Pedro Sánchez must have received Juan Guaidó with all honors, with emotion, even with pride, as did the presidents and prime ministers of France, Germany, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Greece, the United States, Canada, as would the government of a great democracy, and Spain is, or at least was. But he didn't get it. In fact, he did something worse. Minister, I'll explain something you know and keep quiet. President Sánchez not only refused to receive Guaidó; his government also pressured other European leaders not to receive him, but also failed. He even pressured Spanish entrepreneurs not to attend the Guaidó conference in Davos, which was attended by political and economic leaders from all over the world who are betting on an open and free Venezuela. What would you call this, Minister, with your wooden tongue? We also call it resolving a diplomatic incident? No, Mr Ábalos, these are the artefacts of a government without political or moral compass. And in the Delcy case, in the sordid Delcy case, there are three elements that I want to talk about today: contempt for the truth, contempt for the rules and contempt for democratic values. I start with contempt for the truth. Minister, really, what a waste of versions!, what a pyrotechnic imagination you have! It has already been said today, but I repeat it so that it remains, the first lie: 'I went to Barajas, in my personal capacity, to see my friend the Minister of Tourism'. No, she went to receive a torturer, accompanied by diplomatic personnel. Second lie: 'I didn't meet with Delcy Rodriguez, it was just a forced greeting on the plane'. No, he met with the torturer, and for a long time. Third lie: 'Well, yes, it was a meeting, but it lasted only twenty-five minutes.' No, the meeting lasted for at least an hour in and out of the plane. Fourth lie: 'Delcy Rodríguez did not step on Spanish territory'. Do you carry her in your arms, on horseback? The torturer got off the plane, stepped Spanish soil on the red carpet that you put on her, stayed in the VIP room with you and spent the night in Barajas, then took the plane where she wanted to go. Fifth lie: 'I don't intervene at all, it was a police thing'. I was going to ask Mr. Grande-Marlaska to explain it to him, but he's gone. Although the President of the Government may also be able to explain this. Today there is a new version in a newspaper that assures you that the Moncloa sent it directly to you. Sixth lie: 'My brilliant intervention in Barajas avoided a diplomatic incident'. Bond, José Luis Ábalos Bond, Mission in Barajas. [[Laughter]] For pity's sake, we're gonna leave him there. No, Minister, the diplomatic incident now has Spain with the European Union. Yesterday, at the request of citizens, his action was the subject of a debate in the European Parliament, and Mr Borrell himself acknowledged that the European External Action Service could investigate his violation of the sanctions. In the U.S. government, by the way, they don't come out of their stupor either. Minister, no one has lied more in less time than you, not even the one we're all thinking about. In the matter of lies you are more papist than the pope and a detail that sincerely intrigues me personally. [[pointing to the seat of the President of the Government, Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon]] You really thought no one was gonna find out? Did you really think that? It's naivety or prepotence, one of two. You will think that in the Sanchez era everything is absolutely the same; I understand it, but it doesn't matter. Without respect for the truth there is no democracy; at most, a substitute. Therefore, Minister, to the facts. Answer me, please: When did the government learn of the torturer's coming to Spain? Why did the torturer come to Spain? To talk to who and what? Who do I invite? And why didn't the government disinvite her? Who asked you to receive it? For what specific purpose? In what capacity did they ask you to go to Barajas, Minister of Transport or Secretary of Organization of the Socialist Party? And what exactly did you and the torturer talk about? Did she demand that President Sánchez not receive Juan Guaidó? And in your case, why did you obey? Did you talk about the situation of the political prisoners, Leopoldo López? Were you interested in the retaliated, the harassed? And, above all, why didn't you expel her, that is, why didn't she fulfill her obligation? I am completely sure that you will give me a timely answer to all these questions, because it is very important that you do so so that I, among other things, in the reply do not call you an accomplice. And with this I turn to your disregard for the rules. Mrs Rodríguez is forbidden not to set foot in Spanish territory, in the European Union, not only in Schengen, but also to fly over the European sky. This is laid down in Decision 2017/2074 of the European Council, driven, by the way, by Spain. Therefore, you, Mr. Minister, have failed to comply with that rule on your own and risk, and that non-compliance is not free, it has consequences. First, it seriously harms the interests of the Venezuelan people, as is evident. As you know, sanctions are the greatest element the international community has to achieve the goal of free elections in Venezuela. As sanctions go down, you remove pressure on the regime, at the same time, incredibly, that you exercise it on democracies so that you do not receive Guaidó, that is, exactly the opposite of what you should do. Secondly, non-compliance with the agreements seriously undermines Spain's credibility vis-à-vis Europe and the world, and that is not real politics, it is not intelligence, it is not pragmatism, it is a hallmark for Spain. It undermined our role as bridge between Latin America and Europe, marginalizing us to an improper subsidiary place in our history and contrary to our strategic and economic interests. Neither the privileged ally of the Latin American governments nor the decisive interlocutor nor anything, appears of an agonizing dictatorship. And with this I come to the third point: their contempt for democratic values. Minister, with your facts and with the words of President Sánchez today, the government has taken the positions of Podemos, a party that owes chavismo in every sense. The Chavista connections of Mr. Iglesias are well known. Mr. Iglesias - a pity he is not here - is a specialist in the complaint of retired torturers and in the protection of those in force. Pedro Sánchez and you have acted against history and the positions held so far by the Socialist Party, even against Felipe González, who has disowned them. They have allied themselves with that axis Iglesias-Zapatero-Maduro, and that is an involution. And now, you will allow me a paragraph about Mr Zapatero, since, in general terms, he is the original and you copy it. A man who works actively for a dictatorship does not deserve one of the privileges of a former President of the Spanish Government, not even his name, and should be removed. There was a time, yes, in which Mr Zapatero acted as mediator in Caracas, in which he raised some hope in some sectors of the opposition, but that time has long passed. You know him. Zapatero is a man found among Venezuelan democrats, a man who wanders through the dictatorship's ravines without any moral authority or legitimacy, everyone knows that his invocations to dialogue are only oxygen for the dictatorship, a mere agent of the regime, a mediator of part. However, you now recover it; even worse, you assume your strategy, that is, your discredit and your contempt for human rights. Minister, it is not necessary for anyone to tell me, I have seen it with my own eyes: undernourished elderly people making hours of queues under an unquenchable sun to receive two bags of rancid rice, bare mothers carrying their children across the border of Cúcuta thousands of kilometres towards Peru or wherever, students imprisoned, tortured, raped for manifesting themselves in favour of democracy; parliamentarians - our counterparts, deputies like us - of all ideologies, of all, harassed, beaten and exiled for defending political pluralism, the separation of powers, freedom. Twenty-first-century socialism called it, and plunged Venezuela into an abyss that has driven four million people out of their own country. [[Applauds]] Chavism has committed more than 18,000 extrajudicial executions since 2016, according to figures from Human Rights Watch. And I suppose you have read this report by Michelle Bachelet, Socialist, Chilean, High Commissioner for Human Rights of the UN - here she is, there she is - Speaks expressly of extermination groups and death squads at the orders of Maduro and of the woman with whom you met. [[shows a document]] That is why, Mr Ábalos, I ask you today: What was a Minister of the Government of Spain doing on the morning of January 20, 2020 at Terminal 1 of Barajas Airport with a torturer? Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo. The Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda then has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in the last few days and today, in particular here, the recreation of details is leaving behind what is truly important. That is why, first of all, I would like to talk about the international context. It is well known that a political, social and humanitarian crisis is affecting Venezuela, which is followed from Spain by the Government, by all parties and, of course, also by anonymous citizens, concerned about these kinds of issues. This is because, on the one hand, we have close ties with Venezuela, because in that country there are more than 150,000 Spaniards who suffer the consequences of the crisis, and, on the other hand, in Spain there are currently more than 320,000 Venezuelans, a large part of whom have been established in our country as a result of the crisis, because, on the other hand, that crisis has overflowed the national sphere, to become a regional crisis both as a result of the migration exodus caused by the humanitarian crisis and because of its negative impact on relations between the Ibero-American countries, a region that is of utmost priority for Spain. To confront this crisis, from the Spanish Government we promote a solution that has the following characteristics: peaceful - we reject the use of force?, political - negotiated among Venezuelans, who are to decide the future of their country - and which leads to the holding of presidential elections with full democratic guarantees. To this end, we are ready to make every effort to contribute to a solution with these characteristics. We do so bilaterally and also in coordination with our international partners, in particular those of the European Union and those of the International Contact Group. The latter was established in February 2019 by the then Vice-President and High Representative Mogherini, at the initiative of Spain. In this context, on February 4, 2019, the socialist government of President Sánchez recognized Juan Guaidó as president in charge of Venezuela with the aim of promoting the convening of democratic presidential elections. The Government of Spain continues to recognize and support the President-in-Charge Guaidó, whom the Minister of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation received a few days ago. In any case, these are such complex issues that, for example, with regard to the crisis in Venezuela, the United Nations organization itself came to call for inclusive and credible political negotiations to address the challenges in the country. I also remind you that it was precisely during Mariano Rajoy's government that, following the expulsions of the ambassadors in January 2018, they returned in April 2018. Once this review has been made, I will try to answer some of the questions raised by the inquiry. First of all, you are talking about Mrs Rodriguez's status and you are questioning how to act, as a result of it. In this respect, I must say that, first of all, with regard to the rules applicable in the field of air navigation and airport management, compliance with each and every one of the rules and provisions to be taken into account guided each of the actions of the various officials in their respective areas of competence. I am referring to security, border control, protection and safeguarding of passengers, crews, aircraft and installations, preserving the regularity and efficiency of national and international air traffic in the Spanish State and its airspace. With regard to the Council decision of 2017, it does not itself impose a sanction prohibiting entry into and transit through the Schengen area on the Vice-President of the Government of Venezuela, but restrictions on admission in the Member States to prevent them from entering or transiting through their territory. The decision leaves the Member States, to whom it is addressed, the way to carry them out, within the framework of their respective powers and in accordance with the provisions applicable in each case. In particular, the decision itself states, in text, that the said restrictive measures'must be gradual, selective, flexible and reversible, without affecting the population in general, and should aim for the promotion of a credible and meaningful process that can lead to a peaceful negotiated solution'. Yesterday you made a small number in Europe co-sponsoring a debate in a virtually empty House, which shows, or you put into evidence, the real interest in the subject. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u160	They brought this matter, together with the extreme right, to the European Commission, knowing that it was not the right place and that a Council decision is not the right of the Union. The High Representative for Foreign Policy of the European Union and Vice-President of the Commission left them in evidence yesterday and asked them to study a little more. Listen to him. The Commission cannot intervene or initiate infringement proceedings. Finally, there is a ban on entry into Schengen territory, processed by Austria on 27 August 2018 and the date of end of force on 26 August 2021, but which does not prevent international transit. And in any case, a ban on entry is not the same as an arrest warrant. In this sense, on Delcy Rodríguez does not weigh any national or international arrest warrant, get as you put it, unless you consider it democratic and legal to arrest people in any way, without legal subjection - well, there is some precedent -. Therefore, it is not a national or international arrest warrant, but a restriction on entry into the territory of the European Union, and it was applied and enforced. As far as the consideration of whether or not to have stepped on Schengen soil is concerned, Mrs Rodríguez was not at any time in the Schengen area. You can make all the jokes you want about whether or not you flew, your arms, etc. All this is very well, I thank you for the humor and the distension, but, obviously, in legal terms, you know that the thing is not going there. It did not set foot on the Schengen area and, moreover, the ban on entry into Schengen does not prevent international transit in the air mode. In order to be able to consider that Mrs Rodríguez had been on Schengen soil, she would have to have crossed the passport filter or passed a border inspection in the room where she stayed, and none of the circumstances had occurred, and this, the case of non-admissions, in Barajas is daily and usual, is not an exceptional matter. In any case, Mrs Rodríguez was accompanied at all times by a State Security Forces and Corps patrol to ensure that her ban on entry into the Schengen area was complied with. I insist, the entire operation was coordinated by the relevant police command and its instructions and recommendations to implement the protocols in force for these cases were followed at all times. With regard to the motivation of the encounter, by calling it in some way, I have indicated it on numerous occasions, but to my attributed versions you increase a few recreations, as those of today. They want to attribute them all to me: nothing happens either, but they understand, at last, that I don't have to take care of them either. Obviously, every day I see some recreation, all for the same purpose, which is what I said to try to say there was a meeting. As you know, I have a relationship - not too intense, but a relationship, after all, as with many others at international level - with the Minister of Tourism. Given the fact that this minister was travelling with Mrs Rodríguez, of which I was informed a short time ago, the aim was nothing more than to remind her, with the greatest diplomacy - let us say so - of the restrictions imposed by the Council of Europe and to ensure that she continued with her travel plan as quickly as possible. In any case, that time - to some it will seem to them that it lasted a lot, or a little, for each one depends on their attitudes and abilities, because some of them cost us some more things and others have to dispatch it very quickly - it was the mission that I was, that was the mission that I had, and always under the direction and supervision of the border control authorities, as it cannot be otherwise, no longer from the point of view of legality, which is obvious, but even from the point of view of knowing how to operate in facilities that one does not know. I therefore regret that there is not so much mystery, but the question was reduced to that, to comply with the restriction of access to Spain, and it was fulfilled, and to have no more problems with a country with which we have diplomatic relations and with which, of course, if we want democratic elections, we will also have to consider it. Therefore, there was no formal meeting, call it what you call it, because there was neither a preview of it nor any interest nor issues to deal with, nor circumstances of space or time to carry forward any meeting, nor am I anyone to carry issues of that stalemate, and I do not even continue on the subject. Therefore, there is no meeting content, be put as put. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, to stand alone on a part of the conflict, as I am observing, to make a flag of such a complex problem, to despise, insult and humiliate the Venezuelan Government, whether or not we like it, and to instrumentalize, as has been done, the Venezuelan opposition, with which I have met so many times, so many times, all that you do is to renounce the historical responsibility that Spain has with Venezuela. [[rumors]] It is also to put at the feet of the horses our diplomacy, fellow citizens and our businesses in the brother country. They won't find us there, because they don't deserve Venezuela or Spain. You, in this case, are being very irresponsible. You really don't care about Venezuela or the role Spain plays in Latin America as a whole. What really matters to them is to wear down this Government, even at the cost of the suffering of the Venezuelan people. In short, I insist, what I tried to do was to make compatible the application of international rules, with particular attention to the decision of the Council of 2017 to ban entry into Schengen territory, and, on the other hand, to safeguard international relations between Ibero-American countries - brothers and sisters we are - as important as Venezuela and Spain are. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u161	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Mrs Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Thank you, Madam President. Actually, I'm not surprised that you've been left alone by your colleagues and colleagues at the blue bank, because, to hear this, you'd better leave. You have given here the answer of a bureaucrat, the usual tactic. The bureaucrat acts when shame overflows, which is what happens to you. I used to lie better; yes, I mean it, I used to lie better. What was this? Trying to hold on to what? I have here the document, the Official Journal of the European Union, Chapter II, Article 6: 'Member States shall take the necessary measures to prevent the entry into or transit through their territory of natural persons responsible for serious violations or abuses of human rights or repression of civil society and democratic opposition in Venezuela', and the name of Delcy Rodríguez. And I continue, in case it was not clear - this article you have not read it -, article 10 - I listened very well, then sends us to give lessons -: 'It is forbidden to participate consciously and deliberately in activities whose object or effect is to circumvent the measures laid down in this decision'. You have failed this, yes, you have failed it. But, worse, they have failed, as I said before, to protect and protect a torturer, while disabling and disabling a Democrat, whom, I insist, today the President of the Government has called the leader of the opposition. You called him president, I think. Are they clear? Who's in charge here? The president, I suppose. Leader of the opposition or president in charge of Venezuela? Are you going to clear it up throughout the day? We expect a note from Moncloa in which they say: Yes, Juan Guaidó is the legitimate president in charge of Venezuela? [[Applauds]] Another scathing matter, because with the bureaucratic tone there are also really amazing innuendos. He has suggested that my parliamentary group and others are interested, we like extra-judicial detentions. How? Coming from the LAG party? Forgive me for saying so; it is ugly to have to remind you of such a thing. You know what I'm gonna tell you? Those who are really fighting fascism and extrajudicial arrests are those democrats you leave at the foot of the horses with facts like the one you starred in Barajas and who we have attended here today. [[Applauds]] Mr Ábalos, you have not clarified anything, you have not answered anything, you are not interested in anything. That's why he's going to let me ignore him now. I want to address the Venezuelan people, the hundreds of thousands of citizens who have come to Spain fleeing from hunger and repression, the five million refugees, all who heroically survive in their country in unbearable conditions. I would like to ask you not to confuse Mr Sánchez, Mr Iglesias, Mr Zapatero and Mr Ábalos with Spain, to know that we are millions of Spaniards who are moved by their suffering, that we are honoured to receive President Guaidó, that we reject the hypocrisy and visceral racism of those who from their European armchairs play to the revolution in the backyard of others, tourists of the ideal; Spaniards who do not do business at the expense of the freedom and the most elementary welfare of a country that we consider brother, that we do not admit to Latin America what we would never accept for ourselves, that we know that the defense of human rights does not admit moral borders; Spaniards who we are clear that also in foreign policy the moral is the effective. These Spaniards are represented today by my parliamentary group and, therefore, on their behalf, I say today to all Venezuelans: We will continue to defend for you exactly the same as for us, democracy and freedom. And now I'm coming back to you to finish, Minister. Don't worry, I'm not gonna demand your resignation. A previous human and political condition, which is dignity, is necessary to resign. You started losing her that night when you took a car clandestinely and set out on Barajas and ended up destroying her here today. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u162	To conclude the debate, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u163	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Alvarez de Toledo, you have not disappointed me either, I believe no one in particular. Its tone - mine is bureaucratic; well, bureaucrats are usually modest and simple people, without greater aspirations - its is a tone of alcurnia, of a pride that doesn't even need to set, it's natural. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Oooh!-Applause]] It's coming from her. I don't say it as a reproach, in the end, the origin always determines each one of us, always accompanies us. Therefore, it has no responsibility to do so. You told me to cover up murderers and stuff. My commitment has been quite the opposite in Latin America. That which alarms you of poverty is unfortunately chronic in Latin America, is chronic in general in Latin America; and unfortunately also with a lot of political failure, in that I am right. The policy of poverty in Latin America has not been absent, it has generally been the cause of poverty in Latin America, but not only in Venezuela, in many countries. I landed in the 1980s and the truth is that I have a perfect perception and image of what poverty is, and also what political commitment to poverty is. Honestly, at first I denied what I still deny: that there was no meeting. Does a meeting seem like any meeting to you? Well, when a gentleman passes a border check with the police, he can say later: I met the border checker. You can say it, but obviously I don't find elements that characterise a meeting when I say to someone: You can't go in, you know, continue your travel plan and we don't have any bigger problems. And I do, moreover, because that could be done by a policeman, of course, but we are obviously talking about a country with which we have diplomatic relations and with which we must dispatch and understand ourselves. Do we want to understand? No; let's go to confrontation, let's make a political and not a diplomatic opposition. For that is good from the partisan point of view, but from the diplomatic point of view it is barbarity!, and that is what you are in. And you know what's gotten me into all that? Look, at first I thought about relativizing all that, why? My mistake, I thought you could live up to the necessary understanding on an international issue. [[Rumors]] My mistake! Second, my mistake in communication too, no doubt, no doubt. [[A Member of Parliament: You already have two mistakes!]] Third, I didn't think I'd mess things up. I mean, if I try not to have an added conflict in Venezuela, I'm not going to start telling things here about how it went to see if I mess it up, because then it doesn't make any sense to fix it. It seems so elementary, so elementary that I couldn't expect so much disloyalty! And I will not only tell you institutional disloyalty, but even personal, because in your group there are many people I have spoken to; you know how I am, you know that I like dialogue, understanding and I have done many things with you too and I have found a deal... It seems to me something important what you have said and that is that I lack dignity. That is your problem, and that is the democratic lack that you have, that you do not see the adversary as such, you see him as an enemy, you cossify him, you deprive him of dignity as you do because it is the only way to cossify him in order to eliminate him, and that is what I have experienced these days: the elimination of the adversary! [[Applauds]] That's why you're depriving me of dignity. If you respected my dignity, if you allowed me to have dignity, you would not speak like that and, of course, you would have no temptation to eliminate me as you have done in recent days. I'm gonna tell you an episode so you can see the difference. You will remember what the king said to Chávez in 2007: "Shut up. He was Zapatero then, he was messing with Mr. Aznar, and what did Mr. Zapatero say? I do not share Mr Aznar's policy, but he was the president of my country elected by the Spanish. And he asked for respect for that. [[Applauds]] I can't imagine Mr. Married, Mr. Abascal or yourself asking for that respect. There's no precedent. Make an effort, make an effort of loyalty to this country and don't make me talk about what happens these days. You, who worked for Mr. Acebes; I don't want to go in but it makes it very easy for me. [[Rumors]] The other day you know about the funds reserved to use the police, and you tell me that I use the police? [[Applauds]] But how he lies, you can't lie the rope at the hangman's house. Don't make it so easy for me. Don't talk to me about dictators that come to me in memory of Gaddafi. Don't make it so easy for me. [[Rumors]] That doesn't build up, it doesn't help us, it doesn't make us any better, neither we nor the country, which, by the way, I deeply love because I have been nothing but Spanish. [[protests]] Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, stood up.- Various Members: Resignation! Resignation!-A lady deputy utters words that are not perceived. Another lady MP: Come on, shut up, you idiot!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. - THE REPUBLICAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE SITUATION OF THE FRUIT SECTOR. [[File number 172/000003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u165	Urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group into the situation in the fruit sector. Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor for his defence. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the unrest in the agricultural sector is not spring bloom, unfortunately it is the reflection - and you know it - of a chronic situation for years. I do not find anything out to you if I tell you that this sector has been dragging for many years a deep and very complex structural crisis. It is not normal that the owner of an average farm, after the effort and investment made, not only cannot live from his work but also that negative numbers come out and have to pay. I repeat, it's not normal... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u167	Excuse me, Mr. Eritja. Please be quiet, please, the control session is underway. There's a second interpellation. [[Pause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u168	I repeat, Minister, it is not normal for the owner of a medium or small agricultural holding, after the effort and investment made, not only to be unable to live off his work, but also to have negative numbers and to have to pay. In the hands of his ministry he is trying to reverse this absurd and inviable situation, and courageously initiate much-needed structural reforms in support of the small and medium-sized producer. They'll have us here by their side. I am not going to list the set of problems affecting a sector as broad as agriculture, I am sure you know all the causes in detail, but I will remember that market liberalisation, deregulation, the position of dominance of oligopolies - all this as a result of neoliberal policies, let us remember - today are even destabilising factors affecting a set of economic and social sectors but also the agricultural sector. It is clear that this sector today accounts for 11% of GDP, with annual production of 11 million, an exploitation of more than 50 billion and a positive balance of 16 billion. But, running away from strictly economicist approaches, the agricultural sector maintains specificities which, at territorial level, make it a very sensitive strategic area. It is precisely in this sector that food sovereignty and the sustainability of the rural environment depend. This sector depends on territorial balance and, therefore, on social cohesion in rural areas and plays a key role in preventing and managing the effects of climate change, such as floods and fires. This is the real importance of the agricultural sector, the impact on the transcendental and first-class sectors. We cannot tackle the fight against rural depopulation or talk about prevention policies in the face of the effects of climate change without taking into account that it is small and medium-sized farming that ensures the fixing of the population in the rural environment and participates in the comprehensive management of the territory. As the leader of the GRAF group, of Catalan firefighters, has indicated, this summer's fire in the Torre de l'Espanyol, precisely in Tarragona, was stopped by the farmland and all this despite the fact that in the last twenty years the landscape has ceased to be that agricultural-forestry mosaic to which we were accustomed. Today we even know that climate change and the abandonment of cultivated land are leading to unprecedented scenarios that were common fires of very rapid evolution. Here is the real significance of the primary sector. It goes far beyond even the sector itself as an economic sector. In this regard, the consolidation of the agricultural sector should be considered as a strategic priority, a response at the local level to the major global challenges. These days we have attended various protests in the agricultural sector. These mobilizations again highlight the fragility and structural crisis of a sector that has been demanding solutions year after year. Yesterday were the dairy and citrus sectors and today are the olive and fresh fruit sectors. The crisis is therefore global in all sectors. We know that your ministry has put its hands on the matter, but, like any structural crisis, while emergency measures make it possible to resolve day by day, those of a structural nature are the only ones that guarantee the future of the sector. This is very important to keep in mind. The growing manifestations of farmers in Extremadura denote the concern and tension of the moment, although for the new government these protests should be an opportunity to initiate deep structural paths. Either this or we chronise once again the problems of the sector. We are currently at a crossroads and will see what the position of the new Government is, but we believe that this is a crucial moment for decanting the crisis on one side or the other. In this context of claim of the agricultural sector he wanted to take advantage of the speaker of the Chamber to transfer the claims of the fruit sector and in particular of the Platform in defense of the sweet fruit, a platform made up of producers of fresh fruit, entrepreneurs, agricultural organizations and municipal representatives of Catalonia and Aragon. The liquidations being received by producers of fresh fruit, below cost prices, are of great concern. They are being paid 20 cents a kilo, with a production cost of 40 cents a kilo. I will be graphic: for 6 kilos of fruit you will be paid what costs us a coffee. For 6 kilos of fruit they are paid what costs us a coffee. It's very graphic, graphic and embarrassing. That way you can't really live. Some of their demands expressed are, for example, to ensure fair prices for producers. They also express awareness-raising campaigns and promotion of fresh fruit or even propose tax aid or measures with all their arguments. There is a constant in all these claims in the sector that indicate what the underlying problem is: the claim for fair prices. This is really the factor that destabilises the whole sector, prices now subject to the interests of the large producers and distributors who control the value and distribution chain. An analysis of the current situation of the value chain shows the existence of clear asymmetries in the bargaining power, asymmetries that sometimes result in a lack of transparency in price formation and potentially unfair commercial practices - that is the root problem, really - with anti-competitive practices that distort the market and have a negative effect on the competitiveness of the entire agricultural sector. In fact, we can speak clearly of speculation in the distribution chain through two major disloyal practices that we know very well. On the one hand, the sale at loss, where the selling price to the public is below the purchase price, and on the other hand, the practice of dumping, which consists in fixing selling prices to the public below the production costs of farmers and farmers. These practices favour precisely a position of collective dominance in pricing by large distributors - I am not discovering anything, I am setting an example of what the basic problems really are - a position which is also characterized by a total lack of transparency, which further facilitates such abusive practices. One cannot speculate with the market price and less low cost price, which is what is happening now. In a recent statement you pointed out one of the solutions: Those who are weaker, producers, have to see their role in the distribution chain strengthened. We need a common effort made through dialogue. The proposal is very good, but at the same time we must demand traceability and transparency in the value chain. In this regard, there is a pending transposition of Directive 2019/633 of the European Union of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices that can put order in that regard. It is a directive which aims to establish a market share percentage for the agri-food industry, distribution and retail trade; to put an end to the poor regulation of storage contracts in the face of horticultural abuse and practices; and to modify the regulation of the sale at loss from the producer to the retail trade, so as to include, in addition to the purchase price of the original product, the fixed and variable costs of packaging, logistics processing and marketing of food. It's a complete law that's probably going to allow us to regulate a large part of the problem we have now. I insist that the transposition of this directive must have an impact on traceability and greater transparency in the value chain. Another of the mechanisms that we consider important and that in the short term will allow to rebalance supply and demand and to influence the regulation of prices is precisely the plan to start the bone fruit in which we want to insist as a group. Since last year, the Generalitat has been running a bone fruit grubbing-up plan in a 2019-2021 program, which aims to bring 2000 hectares of peach, nectarine, Paraguayan and platerine to the market, eliminate obsolete varieties and promote the future viability of farms. The forecast is that 80,000 tonnes will enter the market, which is precisely the volume that was ceased to be exported as a result of the Russian veto. This is a less costly structural measure than having to resort to an extraordinary withdrawal, which would cost between €35 million and €55 million annually. In early 2019 the Agriculture Council asked the fruit growers if they would welcome a start-up plan and, following that consultation, received 800 requests corresponding to about 1700 hectares. The survey was precisely the result of a request from the Ministry of Agriculture, which in principle had to co-finance the project. In this sense, and given the current critical situation, we believe that it is time to request the ministry to launch a start-up plan for 10,000 hectares of peach and nectarine throughout the Spanish territory, distributed between Catalonia, Aragón, Region of Murcia and Extremadura. We think it's important. It's an emergency action plan to get results. According to the Catalan Fruit Business Association, the implementation of this plan would bring some 300 million kilos of peaches and nectarines to the European market, 25% of what Spain currently produces. This measure could certainly be sufficient to reverse the negative trend that has accumulated losses in the sector since the end of the summer of 2014 in which the Russian veto began. I'm not going to stretch out much longer. I repeat that courageous structural reforms are needed to reverse the current crisis situation, reforms that we hope can bring about a left-wing government. There are many fronts and there are many other proposals that would allow structural actions or structural action proposals, but immediate urgent action is also needed. It is very clear that we must move towards a model of agricultural exploitation that allows for sustainable social, economic and territorial development that ensures that living conditions are equal to other sectors. That is essential, because if all this were not feasible, the costs, not only economic but also environmental and social, in rural areas would be profound. As I mentioned earlier, the agricultural sector is not just an economic sector, but is a sector that has a special significance and sensitivity in everything that refers to the own management of the territory. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President. I very much thank the Republican Parliamentary Group and Mr Eritja for bringing this issue here this morning. I believe that it shows a sensitivity to the reality of the political agenda of this country and, as I had the opportunity to say this morning at the monitoring session, I believe that we are all sensitive to the situation facing our farmers and livestock farmers, to their mobilizations in relation to demands that we from the Government consider fair and to the work that we have been doing in this regard. Therefore, your intervention, which I liked - I must confess - for the tone and for the content, without prejudice to the fact that I am going to diverge, as is logical, from one of your statements, certainly puts us in an important position to discuss a topic of greatest interest for Spain, for Spanish society and for its future, because in fact the sector of fruits and vegetables that you have brought here this morning is a spearhead in our agriculture, we are the garden of Europe, as the sector itself likes to be called. There is nothing more to visit than fairs such as Fruit Attraction, in Madrid, or Fruit Logistica, in Berlin, recently celebrated, to demonstrate the power and presence of our sector, of our farmers We are a world power in production and marketing, and I believe that there are very different sectors within the fruit and vegetable sector: the intensive sector of greenhouse vegetables, in drylands, nuts or dried fruits, that is, a great diversity. I know that you are particularly concerned about the sweet fruit sector, especially in Catalonia, the pupita fruit, apples or pears, or bone, peach and nectarine, and indeed there is a very important presence in Catalonia and the rest of Spain in relation to it. We are one of the top ten producers of sweet fruit and the first European producer of bone fruit and the second world producer behind China. Indeed, all exports of this sector are undoubtedly of economic importance, EUR 12 billion, of which more than EUR 1 billion are located precisely in the bone fruit sector. Therefore, this is a very important issue and a real priority for the work of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and for the Government of Spain and we are following very closely not only the evolution of the sector but the answers that we must give to the fruit sector within and outside Europe. In fact, tomorrow I meet with the fruit and vegetable sector in the ministry, which is one of the regular meetings we have been holding. And in the context of the decision on the establishment of the Agrarian Dialogue Bureau and the actions that we have been carrying out with professional organizations of farmers and farmers with agri-food cooperatives, with industry, with distribution and with the various sectors, I will meet, as I did last week, with the olive oil and bone oil sector, because within the situation of the Spanish agri-food system are probably currently those who are going through a more difficult situation from the point of view of prices. As you certainly know, since 2018 we are developing a plan of measures for the sweet fruit sector in collaboration with the sector itself and thus improve marketing and solve its structural problems. I would like to list the vision and actions that we are promoting from the ministry. Firstly, the amendment of the rules on aid to the operational programmes of the Organisations of Fruit and Vegetable Producers, OPFH. This was a decree that I myself took to the Council of Ministers to finance actions that would adjust supply to demand, in addition to speeding up aid to operational programmes that reach nothing more and nothing less than EUR 220 million a year. It is a question of trying that through the varietal conversion we can adjust the productive capacity to the will and ultimately the tastes of our consumers in Spain and in the rest of the international markets. The concentration of supply and vertebration in the sector is absolutely essential in order to be able to negotiate on equal terms in the face of a very concentrated distribution and an industry that is too. We have a total of 800,000 farmers and farmers in Spain, we have 30,700 agri-food industries and we have six companies in the distribution sector, including more than 50% of the Spanish food market. Therefore, I think it is absolutely fair and that is why we are reviewing the role of the OPPH, of the Fruit and Vegetable Producers' Organisations in the framework of the review that we are making of the whole Spanish agri-food sector. Interprofessional organisations are vital, and they are vital not only to manage but also to expand markets. And here we have a big problem, and that is that in the fruit and vegetable sector we do not have an interprofessional organization in Spain. You will agree, Your Honor, that this is probably one of the most significant structural shortcomings we have encountered and that we have found, once again, in the analysis that we are carrying out in the ministry with all the partners for the design of the strategic plan of the next common agricultural policy 21-27 and its application to Spain. We are analysing all sectors and sub-sectors to try to achieve greater profitability, competitiveness, productivity, sustainability and also the necessary, as you mentioned, adaptation to the ecological transition, the level of aid and foreign trade, and here we are seeing clearly that the presence of an interprofessional organization in this sector is vital for the management and promotion of our products. Thirdly, and you have rightly mentioned it, there is the issue of the food chain. The Food Chain Act of 2013 was a good law, I do not want to say it, but an insufficient law and, therefore, we will reform it. As you said, it must certainly be reformed in the context of the transposition into Spain of the European directive on unfair commercial practices, but I also have a sense of urgency, as is the case with this Government, concerned about the situation. We will see how we can transpose the directive, but at the same time we will take more immediate measures in response to the situation in the sector. We are listening and have given a hand to farmers and livestock farmers, and this government will certainly not fail them. [[Applauds]] That is why, in that dialogue, in that joint work, we consider that every link in the chain must play a more significant role. We want this creation of value to reward producers, farmers and farmers, without doubt industry, distribution, and consumers, that is to say, all citizens, we must also, logically, take part in this reflection. Finally, I believe that it is a very important element - you mentioned it in the past but I am very concerned - about the international agreements of the European Union. I mentioned earlier an exotic proposal that I have heard this week to close the borders of Spain. Look, the world can't stop or close borders. On the contrary, there is a sector like this that exports more than half of what it produces, 52%, and where we have a net balance to expand to markets abroad. But we also need to be rigorous in the imports we make to Spain, and therefore strict compliance with both health and phytosanitary regulations and entry prices in those cases where quotas exist is certainly a priority for this government. We are working with the European Commission to remind it of the need to comply with these conditions of entry for products from third countries, which, of course, are also recipients of our products in export. I conclude, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. We are in favour of trying, because it is the only possible solution, to respond to the concerns of the sector with dialogue, with work, with commitment and, ultimately, with concrete measures. As I mentioned earlier, I convened an agrarian dialogue table on Monday, 3 February, where we marked a road map on which we have been working. I've met with the agricultural professional organizations. I've met with the sectors. I've done it with the industry, too. I'm doing it with the distribution companies. Tomorrow I'll meet with the fruit and vegetable sector. Next week we will hold a new meeting with agri-food cooperatives. We all have to make a great effort. The Food Chain Price Observatory was held yesterday. I think it is a coral effort to respond to what are the needs to achieve a better vertebration of the sector, to improve the negotiating position in the chain of our farmers and farmers and, ultimately, to discuss something that, as you said, interests not only the production of fruit and vegetables or the agro-food production but also the reality of a Spain that is also part of the reality of our country as a whole. There are no two Spains, an urban Spain and a rural Spain, there is only one, and in that Spain and in rural Spain the agricultural and livestock activities are really the muscle, the nerve, the osmenta. That's why we have to defend them and support them. Thank you very much to your ladies and gentlemen for listening to this speech. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u171	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u172	I wanted to start by saying that it is regrettable that in the face of such a sensitive problem as this, a problem that has thrown a lot of people out of an entire agricultural sector, that today we have asked six questions about Venezuela's issues and then an inquiry. On the other hand, at the time when we have raised a serious issue affecting a sector of citizenship, we see that there is now no one and that there are a number of benches that are not in place. [[Applauds]] I say this because people are asking us on the street are not stories, smoke, but they are asking for concrete actions, and I think concrete actions like this is what they are asking us for and where we have to react. Look, Minister, it is not just a matter of putting forward proposals to tackle structural reforms in the medium term. It is that today the settlements that are being received by the producers of fresh fruit are below the cost prices. This also means that urgent and short-term measures are needed and must therefore be combined. When an operator offers a cooperative or fruit centre a price of 0.75 cents per kilo of peach or nectarine made in a box, he knows perfectly well that, in liquidation, the producer will not recover the cost of production, and this is not tolerable, this cannot be. The fruit growers are gradually being seized by the production goods, the land and what each year brings to the exploitation, and what we cannot do is look elsewhere. Therefore, I have said and repeat that this is a key moment to begin profound reforms. We need fair prices for fruit growers and an immediate plan to address emergencies. We agree that the pending transposition of the European directive on unfair commercial practices is very necessary to follow traceability, and to demand greater transparency in the value chain and in price formation. In this regard, I believe that we will reach agreements, and it is important that we at least take stock and update ourselves on legislative issues with regard to European requirements. In any case, I insist, there is also a need for urgent measures that have immediate effects and that, as we have proposed, the bone fruit grubbing-up plan, which does offer visible results, will allow the negative trend that accumulates losses in the sector to be reversed. In addition to medium-term approaches, there is a need for action that really perceives that there are immediate changes. We must offer concrete actions and not just declarations of intent, or the sector will feel that there is no rush and that everything will remain in good words; then we must combine actions in the medium term, deep, structured, but also immediate actions. On the other hand, the prospects do not seem to improve. Rather, it seems that the opposite is true. As you said, the revision of the terms of the trade treaty with Mercosur will soon come up again. Let us remember that most of the agreements signed have led to imbalances in the agricultural sector and these agreements have often led to real imbalances. You know, Minister, that we are not in favour of free trade agreements under the conditions under which they are proposed for deregulation, as we believe in the Republican Left. The quality criteria required of our producers must always prevail, as a guarantee to compete on equal terms with imported products. We have to protect them against the import of other products that often do not meet the minimum of quality guarantees, and that is very important. In any case, any Government initiative to protect small and medium-sized farms will count on our support, be assured. But let's not keep the sector waiting because it can't afford it. Although we are doing substantive work, we are in a hurry to take a number of urgent measures. Let us hope that, in this regard, we can work and try to reverse the current situation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u173	Thank you very much, Mrs. Eritja. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u174	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Eritja, I made a logical diagnosis in the first intervention, as was the case, of what the Government's vision was and what outline of responses we intended to give. Allow me now to be more direct and more concrete. First, the Food Chain Act: in the coming weeks we will regulate the prohibition of sale at loss; we will include reference to production prices and contracts established between farmers and farmers and industry and distribution; we will ban promotional practices that are unfair to the production of our farmers and farmers; and we will make public the sanctioning dossiers in serious and very serious faults that relate to this matter. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Secondly, in the organization of supply we are working with food cooperatives in Spain to make them more active and meaningful in certain sectors in the structuring and regulation of supply, which is fundamental to achieving good prices. Cooperatives should not be outside the solution of the problem, and we therefore ask them to be more actively involved, avoiding situations such as selling as a result, which totally devalues the work of our farmers and farmers. Third, interprofessional. They're necessary, I repeat. This is a serious structural problem in the fruit and vegetable sector, as is the problem of sweet fruit, as you have mentioned. I am not in favour of the measures from top to bottom; I am in favour of the measures that come out of the sector, they are decided by the sector and the Government of Spain and the autonomous communities we support. That is why I disagree with you about that start-up plan which the Generalitat has decided and which - you will know what you are doing - I respect but do not share, and I give you an example of the cava sector. What have we done, what has this government done? We have amended the decree so that plantings and replantings are the professional fruit of the decision of the sector; not a caucus, an administrative decision of this Administration, this Government or any other Government, therefore, the protagonists of the real actors. Organisations of fruit and vegetable producers. We are in a 30% membership and organization in Spain. This can't be. If we have funding for European products, we cannot maintain this level of individualism. It is a cordial, friendly call to everyone, as it cannot be less, but we have to organize ourselves better; if not, it is not a problem of the Government, of any government, of any autonomous or national government; it is a problem of the sector and we need to move on and we are going to work on it. Fourth, CAP. We are negotiating a CAP that is, from the budgetary point of view and of its articulation, a genuine support for professional and family farming, which is the immense middle class of Spanish agriculture and livestock, also in the fruit and vegetable sector. And, attention - you have done very well to mention it - this new CAP will have with it a new orientation not only of economic and social sustainability, but also environmental, of mitigation of climate change and environmental conditions; and we want to do so by the hand of the sector, not as an imposition, but as a necessity that society as a whole marks. Finally - you mentioned it again and I said it in my first speech - with regard to the trade and new generation agreements, those establishing the European Union - rules-based international trade - we have unfortunate experiences of some unfair tariffs imposed on us by other administrations; it really has to be a world of opening up borders, it cannot be a world of border closure and autarchy, but we have to comply with the rules - I agree with you - and in that we are in favour of good agreements that are economically, socially and environmentally progressive. Here is a magnificent agenda to work - in this Congress of Deputies, all their groups - and indeed these are the real problems of Spain that I love to share in this House, and work together for its resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-12-CD200212.u175	Thank you very much, Minister. The meeting rose. It was eleven and forty-five minutes in the morning.
