ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u2	Thank you, President. Your Honor, last July 4th, the President of the Government - who is not here today - announced that we had defeated the virus, that the social shield would leave no one behind. The slogan of those days was: We got stronger out of the pandemic. I could give you a lot of examples of why you lied to us, but I will focus on two: those affected by ERTE and the self-employed without any benefit. Paradoxes of life or politics, better said: the ERTE of the Labour Reform of the People's Party, so hated by you, are the shield that has allowed thousands of businesses and workers to survive these six months. But thousands of Spaniards have a date marked in red: September 30. There's one week left; the ERTEs are running out and they don't know what's going to happen. Your Government is in complete confusion, they seek to discriminate. Passenger transport, yes; trade, restoration or culture, no. And eight out of ten affected by ERTEs can stay out. How does the Vice-President view government policies as discriminating against self-employed people, businesses and their workers? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u3	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, I am going to clear up a circumstance that you have left in the air and that you were talking about all day yesterday. The President is not here because he is in Brussels defending the interests of our country, in the face of the attempt, only attempt, disloyal that you made so that this country could not reach the funds that we will be able to dispose of. [[rumors.-Applause.]] [[A Member of Parliament: Halaaa!-Rumors]] But I'm going to tell you something, because yesterday I listened to you in different ways. In the last legislature, in which you were in the government, President Rajoy, in more than two and a half years, was absent from here six times. President Sánchez, in the same period of time, in the previous legislature and this, one. Don't act like hooligans with situations. Have a memory and be humbled by some things they say all the time. [[Applauds]] And, yes, we are the government that has made ERTE not to go to unemployment. We are the government that has raised the interprofessional minimum wage, which has helped the self-employed for the first time, and the government that has neither done nor is going to do a job reform by leaving the workers tossed and without rights, as you have done. Yes, that government we are. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u5	Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u6	Thank you. Your Honor, nine and five in the morning, the President of the Government is still in Spain. [[Rumors]] What they want, Your Honor, is to cut social rights. They want to differentiate between first-class workers and second-class workers. What is a worker's fault for having devoted his entire life and effort to a sector that the Government now considers to be of low added value? Or what is the fault of working in a company that the government considers to be low-solvent? Or is it an autonomous person who is not entitled to the special benefit for cessation of activity or to the allowances for social security contributions? Your Honor, on zero income, zero quota. They suspend taxes and fees, as other European countries are doing, which are already starting to go back, and give subsidies to local rents, as they are asking. Your Honor, many plans, many campaigns, many slogans are going to have to be invented by you, and a lot of public money is going to have to be spent on it in order to justify your erratic economic policy. Correct, Your Honor, they're still in time. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u7	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u8	Thank you, Madam President. In politics at the end, the numerical data are worth almost more than the words: 35 billion debt to sustain the ERTE and that three and a half million workers in this country have not gone to unemployment. Do you understand? [[Applauds]] This is the only forceful thing in a debate between you and me on social protection. That's right. But, as I told you the other day, you have done it again: lower taxes - that's what you say when you don't rule - but go up spending. Tell this to the citizens seriously. Seriously say that in this country taxes can be lowered and social protection sustained. [[Applauds]] It is absolutely ridiculous and contradictory for you to put that back in this country's public debate. We need fair taxation to sustain the welfare state that you destroy as soon as you touch an institution and govern it. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHY THE GOVERNMENT PRESENTS TO LIQUID THE COORDINATION COVENANT ON THE DEMOCRATIC TRANSITION? [[File number 180/00292]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u9	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, the Transition was not an easy task, it was not written, it was not an inevitable process, but it was possible to agree because the Spaniards, their parents, our grandparents, chose to forgive themselves. It took generosity and greatness, and they had it, and it was necessary to build an inclusive, pluralistic and tolerant Spain. It was necessary to look forward and not always be looking back and at the tear produced by the Second Republic and the Civil War. It was necessary to re-live normally with those who think differently. The constitutional process and the Constitution itself of the year 78 gives us several lessons and the first is that history must be left to historians and must look to the future and not to the past, and that is why an Amnesty Act was passed. The Spaniards chose to forgive themselves, Madam Vice President, and they got it right. Why does the Government now intend to liquidate the national reconciliation pact on which the democratic transition was made? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u11	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I've never been asked anything easier. We don't mean to. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Oooh!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u13	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u14	Madam Vice-President, I invite you to resume the path of civicism, but you choose tension. You at the PSOE speak to Bildu with total naturality and yet last week to me he told me that he speaks to us only by legal obligation. We are not so; we are much more natural, we are able to maintain the necessary political tension and humanity to speak with you naturally. When you got sick and got over your illness, I approached you without any problem to ask you, but don't worry that I won't do it again so I won't put you back on that bench. What is not legal obligation but responsibility of a ruler is to build on the best foundations of the Spaniards. We have already told you that the Spaniards have chosen to forgive themselves, and it is one of their greatest virtues. I am sure, for example, that an egabrense like you will know the value of forgiveness, because it will not be all day thinking that the Republican Army destroyed and generated a tremendous death in your people in full war on a market day. What's the need to be remembering that every day? None. [[Applauds]] Madam Vice-President, years ago the Spaniards had already forgotten the past and began to look to the future: it is the great success of Spain in the late 20th and early 21st centuries. And see if the Spaniards have the ability to forgive you that you were forgiven as part of the worst government we had ever known, which was Zapatero's, and you pay it back to you as part of the worst government we've ever known, which is this. Mrs Calvo, we already know that Pedro Sánchez is not of the Socialist Party, but that the Socialist Party is of Pedro Sánchez, but it would be very desirable for you - all in the Socialist Party - to renounce civil war, bury the past and start looking to the future for the sake of the Spaniards. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u15	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, to you the background and the form have not just been accompanied; the tone you have used to talk about a matter like this and the background. Your comrades have applauded a bombardment. [[One Member: What?-Rumors]] What's more, do you read what your partner Olona says, who has her next door? Because she's on the battlefield. Four days ago he said he was still on the battlefield. The government doesn't. And I'll tell you more. No process of transition, reconciliation and coexistence of any country in any place in the world that wants to be serious, as the Spaniards did, ignores justice and the fulfilment of human rights. Do you know what the bill is after that will soon be debated in this House? Pay attention to what the international bodies tell us and what they have told other countries the United Nations, the European Council, the European Parliament, this House, the Senate. Nothing more and nothing less. You probably by age don't remember what I do remember about Francoism. We were a unit of destiny in the universal. It was difficult to understand what that was, but in the end it was known what it was: an isolated dictatorship of Europe and the world, of international organizations and of the imposing and prestigious presence of Spain in the world. We're not gonna do it again. This law certifies our democracy with each and every one of the indications made to it by international bodies... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u17	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u18	...and compliance with our Constitution on international humanitarian law. Do you understand? It's just that. Be on this side, I'll ask you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE LORD SECOND SECOND AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: CONSIDER THE SECOND VICESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030 THAT THE SOCIAL DECISIONS TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT ARE MEANING USEFUL? [[File number 180/000297]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u19	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u20	Thank you, Madam President. The Falcon is about to arrive in Brussels in time after the control session, not to go to concerts in Benicàssim. [[Applauds]] Mr Iglesias, Mrs Calvo, listen to this: with what you spend on advisors you can pay 65 000 minimum income to 65 000 Spaniards. There's where to start. But is there any friends left to you, Mr. Iglesias, and Mr. Sánchez for placing? Because the job sinks all over Spain but shoots in the Moncloa. We have the most expensive government in history and it is serving us absolutely nothing. Mrs. Calvo, how does it feel to rule side by side with an imputed party? [[Laughs.-A congressman: You'll say it for yours!]] Well, you're no stranger to it because you've been part of a government like Andalusia, where 700 million euros have been stolen from Andalusians. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u21	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u22	In Podemos, to make a career, you must have been accused or convicted: Isa Serra, Sánchez Mato, Mayer, Juanma del Olmo... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u23	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u24	...and Echenique, who doesn't have among his hobbies to pay taxes. When someone is condemned, he is expelled; in Podemos he is given a charge. Mr. Churches, what were the leaders of Podemos doing protesting against Mrs. Ayuso? In the morning of the demonstration and then to eat in the neighborhood of Salamanca? In the morning to the barricades and then to the shellfish. [[Laughter and applause]] Mr Iglesias, this government - and it should embarrass all ministers - treats Bildu better than the king. They will have to explain why they prevent the king from travelling to Barcelona next Friday, because there will be no Brussels where to hide. Mr. Churches, how are you going to end the monarchy? Turn around: he tried to end Errejón and there he is, sitting. Take some time between your occupations and take care of the non-paying ERTEs, the non-paying minimum living income and the self-employed who are on the loose rope. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u25	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. García Aegean, what's the question? [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Oooh!-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u27	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Iglesias, I have left you so that you can read it since Thursday: Do you consider that the measures are being useful, those of the Government? I don't know if you're used to reading. He says yesterday that the police and the military are not useful. Who's gonna put out the fires, the UME or you? Who protects the door of your house? If they're not helpful, let the civilian guards who are protecting you go. The Spanish Government, which has managed the pandemic the worst, why does it not accept Pablo Casado's proposal to set up a committee, as in all of Europe, to assess what has been done wrong and not repeat it again? Let's see if Sanchez learns anything in Brussels today. Gentlemen, let's save lives and jobs, let's not be late for this too. And if you're going to talk about corruption, Mr. Churches, remember that of all of us here, the only one who's going to have to go to court is you. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u29	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. García Aegean, I was impressed by the momentum with which you hit the microphone. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Ooooh!]] You're full of energy. Thank you for finally asking the question. [[A Member of Parliament: You can't hear!]] I'm talking to you guys louder, no problem. If you listen to me, you'll understand me better. Look, in the control sessions it's about you asking questions and we answer them. You ask me a question and I answer the question that yes, I believe that the social policy of the Government is being effective. So much so that even you have supported some of the social measures carried out by this Government. But since you are a high-ranking politician, I will allow myself to suggest a debate. We are in a new era where it is impossible for a party to rule alone. Bipartisanism in Spain is over. This is a coalition government and you to rule need partners, citizens and the far right of VOX. You, who are a bloc of governability, consider that those of us who do not think like you are little less than a social-communist contubernion allied with separatists. [[Mr García Eggea: Yes indeed.- A honourable Member: Yes, yes, yes.]] His approach is not very original. It's not original, this is what you're saying from those governments that like your allied party so much. For, look, we not only as a coalition government, as a bloc that understands that Spain does not look like you, that Spain is diverse, that we have to understand ourselves with other political forces, that ours is a plurinational reality, we will make many mistakes, but we have learned some lessons. The first lesson of this pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, is the need to defend the public and put an end to the privatization processes that have placed citizens in a vulnerable position. The second, article 128 of the Constitution: the defence of the general interest must be the programmatic orientation of any decent Government. The third lesson that comes from Europe: the austerity policies of the so-called neoliberalism have placed our continent in a position of weakness, and what has been decided at the European Council, despite your boycott, is precisely to bet on a democratic Europe that defends social rights. Ladies and gentlemen, you have condemned your own future to walk with the far right. I say it again: they will not be part of the Council of Ministers of this country again. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MACARENA OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: Will you resign to the sight of the judicial scandals that affect you and your party? [[File number 180/00294]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u31	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice President, are you going to resign in the face of the judicial scandals that affect you and your party?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u33	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u34	Madam Member, what scandals do you mean? [[Laughs. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u35	Mrs. Olona Choclán.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u36	Mr. Iglesias, please examine this photograph. [[Show a picture]] Do you recognize the guy who shows up on it? It's Rodrigo Lanza. Five days ago, at last, justice has been done and a jury court has found him guilty unanimously for killing a man in December 2017 for the simple fact of wearing straps with the colors of the Spanish flag, for killing him for ideological hatred. That's the only reason Don Víctor Laínez was murdered, and that's what he's credited for. For this reason, Mr. Rodrigo Lanza crept him up, attacked him on the back, threw him on the ground and smashed his skull to pieces and punches, between insults of fascist and facsimile. You knew this subject, Mr. Iglesias, this murderer; in fact, he met with his mother to show his public support, and it is that the extreme left that incarnates Podemos had erected in an icon the motive that in 2006 left in a vegetative coma - an agent of the Urban Guard of Barcelona, whom he reached with a stone in the skull. He was sentenced to five years in prison. I can assure you that with VOX this human waste would never go out of prison. If you had been present when Lance assaulted the agent or kicked Victor to death, you would have thrown him out, Mr. Iglesias, and enjoyed it. I'm not saying it; you said it in 2014, when through your La Tuerca program some images were disseminated where you were seen recognizing that you were excited to see how the left ultras kicked an agent of the glorious National Police Corps who had been isolated from the rest of your colleagues. Now he tries to deceive all Spaniards in that moderate tone, but there is no mold that hides his immorality. The curious thing, Mr. Iglesias, is that I do not say it; it is also said by your government partner. That is why they apply a sanitary cord and that is why they cover their noses when they pass along with the socialist ministers. Precisely, not long ago, Minister Marlaska himself went to his nearest circles saying that he had nothing to do with you, that he was the minister of Mr Sánchez's trust. I will not reproduce the expressions he uttered exactly. Mr Marlaska, you have no reason to look over your shoulder at Mr Churches because they participate in the same moral chastisement. Mr. Churches, I want to entrust you with one question. Yesterday at the Board of Spokespersons we decided on the possibility of the creation of a Commission of Inquiry into Operation Kitchen. This parliamentary group is going to request the presence of Minister Marlaska and the Commissioner known as Lenin. Mr Marlaska, Operation Kitchen was brought to justice in November 2018. When did you know these facts, when you were informed of Commissioner Lenin and when you were informed of Mr President... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, you were asking me: Are you going to resign in the face of the judicial scandals that affect you and your party? And I've answered him by asking him what those judicial scandals are. You haven't even mentioned one; not even one. The level of defachability of your question is at the level of what you represent. But, look, I'm gonna answer him. When Judge García Castellón withdrew my injured status in the Villarejo case, you celebrated it, but do you know what happened next? That the National Court returned us the condition of injured persons. You filed a complaint accusing me of six crimes, but what bad luck!, not even the complaint has been allowed to proceed. We have been created by many scandals in recent years, what happens is that in the end they have all been archived by the judicial authorities. And it draws my attention to the fact that you allow yourselves to talk about investigations, convictions, frauds or scandals. Condemned for not paying for the works of his house is Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, who is next to him. Whoever exercised as an architect without having the title was Mrs Monastery. [[Applauds]] The person who has been convicted twice for insults is Mr German Tertsch. Your candidate in Andalusia, Mrs. Olona, is being investigated for diverting public subsidies to your own private accounts. And if we talk about illegal financing, your candidate for the 2014 European elections openly acknowledged that you were funded by the political arm of an Iranian terrorist organization. [[Mrs. Olona Choclán shows a photograph]] Your Honor, you are bad news for the democracy of our country, but have one thing for sure: Spain does not look like you and, despite the influence you have gained with the People's Party, the Spanish Democrats will be able to resist and defend our democracy. [[Applauds]] Is that what you're talking about? OF THE DEPUTATE OF SANTAMARIA RUIZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: THE REFORM OF THE REBELLION AND SEDITATION DELITS FORMS PART OF THE NEGOTIATIONS OF THE GENERAL BUDGETS OF THE STATE? [[File number 180/000298]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u39	Questions to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Luis Santamaría Ruiz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u40	Mr Minister, my group would like to ask you a very simple question today. You have announced a reform of the crimes of sedition and rebellion and we would like to know whether it is an imposition of nationalism to negotiate the General Budgets of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u41	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Santamaría, I will start in an unusual way and it is thanks to your parliamentary group and to you for the effort you have made today to publish in the Official Gazette a law of procedural and organizational measures to deal with COVID, a text that is richer today thanks to your effort, a text that was processed quickly and that has seen the light, and to express that it is possible - it is possible - to reach agreements also in the field of justice. [[Applauds]] But I answer your question. He has heard me on many occasions say that law is something alive, that seeks kindness for citizens, and criminal law is there, it is something that he earnestly seeks to find the right tone to address the issue of crime. That is why it is normal that, in the face of a changing reality, this reform should also be discussed in this House. Today we talk about euthanasia, we talk about the right to protest, strike, freedom, sexual freedom, and we also have to talk about public order. As you know, the President of the Government, in his investiture debate, already said that we would have to review the crimes of rebellion and sedition. That's where we are and we hope to count on you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u43	Mr. Santamaría Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u44	Mr Campo, President Sánchez's word is not worth much. I must tell you that you do not convince me of your explanations and that you assumed in this House that you would answer politically for the work of the State Attorney General. Let me ask you a few questions. First, why did the State Attorney General change the prosecution's approach in a case involving a former judge with whom she has an intimate relationship or an intimate friendship? Another question: Do you think it reasonable that the Tandem Delgado-Garzón directs or controls the Spanish judicial landscape? More questions regarding the State Attorney General: Do you think it reasonable that the State Attorney General is behind the report that gives a blank cheque that relieves the Government of its responsibilities for complaints and claims by citizens against the management of its Government at the head of the pandemic? Do you not think, Minister, that it would have been your duty as minister to ensure the absolute abstention of the prosecutor? Why does it allow the connivance of prosecutors like Print in a case in which connivance with a political party investigated like Podemos has been demonstrated? Minister, the deterioration of the institutions is reaching an absolutely unbearable level. How can it be tolerated that a Supreme Prosecutor speaks of his colleagues in terms of how this troop cannot go to war? What war do you mean, Minister? What wars are you feeding and at what price will the Spaniards pay for them? And, Minister, I do not know if you remember this image - and I regret to have to take it out - but I never thought I would see the Minister of Justice of the Government of Spain meeting with one of the people condemned by the biggest corruption scandal in Europe. [[shows a photograph]] [[Applauds]] You will allow me to ask you, Minister, or to give some thought to the state attorney general. Will it be neutral and impartial in the more than one hundred cases that remain to be judged and that affect the Socialist Party of Andalusia for corruption? Minister, on 18 February President Casado offered Sánchez to sign a commitment for Spain to be able to agree on those issues that, apart from independenceists, apart from populists, could serve to build that Spain better than we all long for. And your answer will consist not of a pardon but of an amnesty to the prisoners condemned by the trial, and that is called a betrayal of the commitment to dialogue that you are telling us. Look, when you whiten Bildu, when you deny the actual number of victims of COVID...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Santamaría. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Santamaría, a moment ago I praised the conduct of your group and that of you in particular. But I'm going to tell you one thing, and I'm going to tell you with the same humility: there are times when with our words we get the worst caricature out of us. Maybe it's good that where there's no ideas, the words are piled up. Mr. Santamaría, what do you want me to tell you? We have to reform the Criminal Code because there is a new order to protect, we have to protect the Constitutional Court, we have to analyze why our right is separated from criminal codes. I know that you, rather than a criminalist, are a Europeanist. Tell someone to tell you what the French Penal Code, the Italian Penal Code, the German Penal Code says, see how they regulate these figures and tell me if you don't think we should. Look at the best doctrine and see how it's there too. I can tell you, for your peace of mind, that when we bring this law you will see that it brings all the relevant reports of the General Council of the Judiciary, the Office of the Attorney General of the State, the Council of State, and a wide debate will be opened on this matter. I will tell you one thing - and this concludes -: you support the debate, you support the dialogue, you support a better Spain, because in that country project we want to see you and not in the non-renewal of the institutions... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u47	Thank you very much, Minister. - QUESTION BY LAURA BORRÀS CASTANYER, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT TAKEN WITH REGARD TO THE DERIVE IN WHICH SPANISH JUSTICE IS ESTABLISHED? [[File number 180/000287]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u48	Question by Mrs Borràs Castanyer, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the Spanish justice system rejects the reports of the UN working groups, fails to comply with EUJC resolutions and accumulates the episodes in which it is losing any credibility. He also said that they would not be, but the MEPs of Junts per Catalunya are, have immunity and can move freely throughout the continent, with the embarrassing exception of Spanish territory. Do you think this is really normal? At the same time President Torra is declaring for the second time in seven days for a banner; since last Thursday everyone is speculating about when his sentence will come out in the Supreme. Do you know why Gürtel has not left yet, has been deliberating for seven months and is the same rapporteur? Because the law literally says they're settled in order of arrival. Do you know if the shift is altered by being Catalan and independent? What measures is the Government taking in view of the drift in which the Spanish justice system is installed?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u50	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Borràs, I will start with an obvious thing that I know you won't like, but Spain is a social and democratic state of law. That means some things, that means we have an independent judiciary, subject only to the rule of law; we have a prosecutor's office that promotes the action of justice with functional autonomy, and we have a government that, respecting the Constitution, has to ensure the principles of the legal system and remove all obstacles to the effectiveness of judicial guardianship being a reality. And that's what this minister, as the portfolio holder of the benefit administration, does every day. That's why I can't share your idea that justice is drifting. No, look, justice is better, like all public policies in this country, but I tell you one thing, it's united today. Look what the 2030 Justice project is, talk to the autonomous communities of very different signs and you'll see that we're all in the same line. And that means things, it means that we participate in territorial cohesion, it means an office of justice in each municipality, it means new courts of law, it means trying to bring to justice the contributions of digital transformation and it means limiting and removing barriers that prevent the effectiveness of judicial guardianship. Your Honor, I can't admit that justice is drifting. We have a country project and we want to join you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u52	Mrs. Borràs Castanyer.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u53	Minister, you speak of an independent and expired judiciary. Appointing judges for life with the expired term of office, as the General Council of the Judiciary is doing, breaks the constitutional contract. So, you comply with the Constitution, you call Congress and the Senate, you vote in plenary and you don't agree in an office, because if you do, you are also responsible for this illegitimacy and this blockade. And it's no longer about the PP and bragging about having trusted prosecutors and having 'the prosecutor's office tune you up', because we already know with the PSOE who the prosecutor's office depends on, right? This week we found that the Lieutenant Prosecutor of the Supreme Court denounced pressure from two prosecutors who came to his office to try to influence his decision to request the filing of the twenty-one complaints filed against the Government for its management of the COVID crisis. On this occasion these two jurists seem to have acted absolutely slaves of their ideology, but when they themselves acted against the independence leaders, insisting even nausea on accusing them of rebellion, then they merely applied legal criteria and knew how to contain their ideas on a subject as sensitive as the unity of Spain, which should not be an ideology but a tautology. What is certain, Minister, is that Spanish justice is more Spanish than justice. They manage the conflict they maintain with Catalonia, which is already - according to the Cultural Omnium - 2850 retaliated. Do it from politics and abandon the judicialization...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u54	Thank you very much, Mrs Borràs. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Borràs, I am sorry to say that your speech has reminded me a lot of the worst speech of the People's Party or even the Fake champions, who are very close to you. Do not be confused, Mrs Borràs, our judges are no less independent because they make decisions that you do not like. That's the role that everyone has. I have told you in my first intervention, we are a social and democratic state of law where everyone has to fulfil his constitutional role. It is up to the Government to do something and, as far as you are concerned, I will tell you that we have complied with and respected the decisions of the courts, all of them, all of them, Mrs Borràs, all of them. Secondly, we are fully prepared for dialogue, because it is the way to resolve political conflicts. We face with democratic normality the possible normative changes that society demands and demands, and, as far as this ministry is concerned, it is legally promoting what the Government's plans are, it is processing nationality files, it is handling all civil registration problems and it is also processing pardons. By the way, those you're worried about because it's up to you, they'll start processing next week. Join the country project of this Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u56	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Carolina SPAIN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENT: WHEN ARE YOU GOING TO APPROVE THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEW OBJECTIVES OF STABILITY AND DEBT? [[File number 180/000300]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u57	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance. Question from the representative of Carolina Spain Queen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u58	Minister, when are you going to test the new stability goals?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u59	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u60	Thank you very much, President. Madam Spain, as I said these days, the expenditure ceiling will be approved during September-October, that is to say, next week or next week we will be in a position - I hope that the groups will validate it, because when we bring it we have to be agreed - to bring the expenditure ceiling so that your ladies and gentlemen can also begin the debate on the processing of the draft budgets. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u61	Mrs. Spain Queen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u62	Minister, I'm not going to talk to you about the ERE past in Andalusia when I was a counselor, as you do, let's talk about your management. Look, in 2018 and 2019, before the pandemic, she already failed to meet the deficit, the same thing she did when she was in Andalusia and that's why she intervened herself. In 2020, she lied in the forecasts sent to Brussels and AIReF alerted her. By 2021, we know nothing about the budget, nor will the European funds be able to make up their red numbers. They are experts in makeup, also in Andalusia, with waiting lists and hidden patients. Look, we triple the destruction of employment in Europe, GDP has fallen twice as much as in the OECD, we are at the tail of the world, and all you think about are cuts to self-employed people, pensioners, civil servants, that is to say our doctors, teachers, police officers. It is that we have seen everything, from staying with the VAT of the autonomous communities to blackmailing the municipalities to take ownership of the remnants and also now taking revenge on the mayors by eliminating the fund of 5 billion euros for the historical defeat it suffered. But the last thing, Minister, is to exchange prisoners for budgets with Bildu? Are you going to allow it? It's as low as there is. We already know you've been assigned a Podemos squire to make your budgets, but if you charge Vice President Iglesias, will you also make your accounts? Are you changing prisoners for budgets, yes or no, Minister? Answer me and please don't run away, as the President of the Government has done. They have lied to us in everything: in the number of dead, in the tests, in the experts. They don't lie anymore. Should we tie our shoulder? Of course, but where, if you haven't brought a single account? You want a blank check and I remind you that it was Pedro Sánchez who said that with the People's Party he would never compromise. By the way, Brussels denies that European funds are conditional on budget approval; another lie and another blackmail. They do, however, require specific reforms and projects, and senior State officials are already warning of chaos. I mean, if you're going to manage the European rescue funds as badly as the ERTE and the minimum living income, we're on the edge of the cliff. Madam Minister, renounce the left-wing virus of prisoners for budgets. We are not bad, Minister, we are worse, much worse, and the most dramatic thing is to know that the solution is in the hands of the problem. Answer me and thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u63	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Three considerations, Mrs. Spain. First, you always use the framework of Bildu, of independence, of those who want to separate themselves from Spain as a public wild card. No matter what is said in this House, your ladies and gentlemen are repeatedly using an argument that you know is not going anywhere. Second question, Your Honor, fear comes when they talk about reforms. If you expect this government to do what the People's Party did in the previous crisis, you are lost. [[Applauds]] We are not going to make cuts, we are not going to lower public spending, we are not going to suffocate the autonomous communities, we are not going to suffocate the municipalities, as you did when you ruled. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u65	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u66	Third reflection. Your Honor, I intend to bring to the House the draft budgets, of course long before what Mr Montoro brought last time, which I remind you we were here in June approving the draft budgets... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u67	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u68	They won't let you talk. That's the way they practice opposition. Finally, Mrs Spain, I would also like to make two points. First: you are constantly making a policy of burning land, a form of opposition that serves this country for nothing and that is absolutely useless. Abandon a form of wear that does not represent the citizens who voted for them. In addition, I tell you that this country needs the main opposition party so that, side by side with the rest of the parties, we can get Spain out of the situation resulting from the crisis of the coronavirus. Second reflection, Mrs Spain: this draft budget is an unprecedented project, because the situation in the country is an unprecedented situation. [[Laughter]] If the gentlemen who laugh don't understand what I'm talking about, they just have to walk the streets to see the suffering of the people. [[Applauds]] Therefore, support a draft budget, support Spain at a fundamental moment...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u69	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHY IS THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR CONTRIBUTING TO THE ENTRY OF THE INTERIOR IN ORDER TO BLACK THE CRIMINAL HISTORY OF STATE? [[File number 180/00293]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u70	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, why are you contributing today to the attempt to whitewash ETA's criminal history?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u72	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Gil Lazarus. Blanking the criminal history of ETA is what you and your parliamentary group are doing constantly trying to keep a defeated and dissolved terrorist organization alive. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u74	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u75	Minister, the answer you have just given fills the gap. Let's get to the facts. The facts are that Bildu has not condemned ETA terrorism and yet Sánchez intends to normalize Bildu as a partner and preferred partner of the government. An immense vileness, because sitting down to negotiate with Bildu only contributes to the attempt to whitewash ETA's criminal history, which is exactly what Bildu claims. The Minister of the Interior contributes to this attempt to whitewash the criminal history of ETA when he shuts up before Bildu's speech, as you do; when he inhibits himself before the acts of Bildu, as you do, and when he gives in to Bildu's demands, as you do. And you silence Bildu every time Bildu in this Chamber insults the State Security Forces and Corpses and accuses them of torture; every time Bildu intends to equalize the executioners, the murderers and their victims, or every time Bildu intends to give lessons in democracy and human rights in this House. And you inhibit yourself in the face of Bildu's actions when Bildu freezes tributes to the murderers who come out of jail or jails inciting hatred of the Civil Guard, such as the recent one in Alsasua. Finally, you give in to Bildu's demands. You are bringing prisoners to the Basque Country who have not asked for forgiveness, who are not cooperating with justice. You're approaching prisoners with blood felonies. You, in short, have agreed to liquidate the dispersion policy, perhaps as a step ahead of a future pardon under string that puts all prisoners on the street, which is exactly what Otegi has required to support the budgets. Therefore, in the face of this immense vileness, which is a betrayal of the victims and of democracy, the motion of censure is a courageous act of patriotic defense. This group... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u76	Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Gil Lazarus. I should like to point out that the whitening of the history of the terrorist organization ETA is materialized by a conduct that is your own: negationism. They deny the role of my party, the Socialist Party, and other political parties that are present in this House in the defeat of the terrorist organization ETA and in passing deny the suffering of many people who were threatened by it. It bothers you the unity of democrats, it bothers you, it pains you the harmony of those we are different from, you also deny democratic institutions, you deny the contribution of democratic institutions at the end of ETA, you deny the professionalism and heroism of the State Security Forces and Bodies, judges, prosecutors, councillors, those who were and were on the front line fighting against the terrorist organization ETA, and you deny it, do you know when? When they insist that ETA continues to exist. In short, they deny an important and paramount fact that the democratic order, the rule of law, was able to defeat the terrorist organization ETA. [[Applauds]] Mr Gil Lázaro, you constantly and with the speech of hatred that is so constant to you, all you do is try to make us forget something important, which was the firmness of our democracy, the solidity of our institutions, the dignity of Spanish society, the work of judges and prosecutors, the forces and bodies of State security, the work of the memory of the victims that allowed the terrorist organization to be where it is today, defeated and dissolved, and evidently disappeared. They will not make us forget a very specific question: democracy has managed to overcome one of the evils that this country has had in the last eighty years, the terrorist organization ETA. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL ANDRÉS LORITE, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: HOW DOES THE STATE OF INFRASTRUCTURES BETWEEN THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CRISIS THAT WE LIVE IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/00299]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u78	Question to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mr Andrés Lorite Lorite, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u79	How are you, Mr. Ábalos? You've been here a long time, busy with other things and parliamentary quarantine. Their absence in management affects sectors linked to mobility, transport, logistics, construction and housing. They don't come out stronger. The Spanish airports have become a glue of the virus by not requiring PCR tests, increases in airport charges are announced, road transport is abandoned without moratoriums or delays in the quotas, the railway frequencies are cut by 50%, two thousand crews in an invitation to tender that will lead to unemployment, Renfe staff threatened with a salary reduction and Spain thus becomes the country of Europe with the least investment per capita, since its budget execution in the field of public works is mesera. But some have put on their boots, have done business with the coronavirus and with their help have come out stronger. For example, the Management Solutions company, to which you directly and without transparency awarded some millionaire contracts for the purchase of masks. Your friends haven't been left behind. Sanchez's best friend was fingered to photocopy a report and, after the most expensive copy shop, at high electrical voltage, plug as Director General of Architecture. He also placed the ineffable Koldo as Renfe's advisor and even his wife. Don't hide anymore, like Sanchez did today. The murky affairs do not disappear by throwing them into the river like the wagons that threw the Sil. Please explain already what happened on your night trip to Barajas with the Vice-President of Venezuela, whether or not Renfe is using public money to pay luxury housing to its managers, what happened in the expansion of Terminal 4 and other dark matters. Mr. Ábalos, you are cornered between your own lies and the shadow of corruption, which has spread in your ministry as a pandemic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u80	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u81	Thank you, President. Mr. Lorite, I am very well; he asks me how it is, very well. Very well and also very grateful that you give me this opportunity, because after nineteen control sessions for the first time you ask me about infrastructures. As you will understand, I can't force you to ask me, I had to wait for you to come up with it, but my disappointment is that after asking a question tenor, in the content you have told me about a series of fakes, of bubbles, which I already know very well on your part because in your Twitter account you are exposed in these things, like those medicalized trains that were lie and like so many bubbles. I will respect your question because I think the question is interesting. I believe that in the pandemic the transport and infrastructure system has behaved very positively. Why? Because we have a good network of infrastructures, of the best in Europe in many respects. We have the world's leading airport manager; the best motorways and high-speed trains in Europe; with a port system that moves a lot in the Spanish economy and has also endured, has been resilient. But, in addition, we have managed to ensure not only the fundamental supply throughout the pandemic - which has not been lacking - but to prevent the spread of the virus with restrictions. Therefore, we have had a double dimension. On the one hand, it is health-related and, on the other, so that society can cope with this difficult situation. Moreover, we have not stopped the public work, we have not stopped it despite the difficulties; there has been some incidence, but nothing has stopped. We have not stopped anything, it has been implemented in such a way that we have exceeded last year's level of implementation. Otherwise, the numbers you've given you can tell you that they're all fake. At this time we have doubled the investment in average terms of the six-year management of the People's Party, in just two years, from 600 to 300, more or less. [[applause]] So, I don't know what data you use. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u82	Mr. Lorite Lorite.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u83	Mr. Ábalos, you have paralyzed the recruitment platform. You like to talk a lot about Twitter and it's that you may have some rescission for what you did in the ministry's institutional account, which was insulting the president of the Andalusian Board through an institutional account, and that's a moral lowness, Mrs. Ábalos, as much as you do. [[applause]] Mr. Ábalos, you haven't answered anything I asked you. And I'll tell you one thing, you'll end up answering and explaining, here and somewhere else. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u84	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u85	Your style is admirable, Mr. Lorite. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] It has always been, and in the Committee on Development and Transport now it has that recognition, it is the only Member who is not at all interested in infrastructure. Continue to protest in the streets in the midst of a pandemic against the Government calling for its resignation. It's the best you've done all this time and the most honorable for your... [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT'S PROVISIONS FOR CONSOLIDATING ESTABLISHED PLANTS OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES IN THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE STATE AND PUBLIC UNDERTAKINGS THAT ARE NOT COVERED IN THE RURAL ENVIRONMENT AND SMALL CITIES OF ARAGON? [[File number 180/00263]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u86	Question to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. Question by Mr Tomás Guitarte Gimeno, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u87	Minister, what is the Government's willingness to consolidate stable staff belonging to the State Administration and public enterprises that are not covered in rural areas and in the small towns of Aragon?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u88	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Guitar, I'm glad you recovered. With regard to the question I am asking, the priority objective of the ministry I carry is to convene each and every one of the OEP calls that are pending, which are alive to cover the places both in the AGE and in the territory. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u90	Mr. Gimeno Guitar.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u91	We welcome this, because precisely what we wanted to highlight with this question is the lack of replenishment of a multitude of jobs in rural areas, which at best at national level may seem insignificant but in our territories sometimes one or two people are 50% of the workforce and even involve the closure of an office. I can quote, for example, as cases the INSS offices in Montalbán and Daroca, which were closed in February due to the retirement of the person who attended them, who are not serving them or are providing them in a very precarious way. Also, for example, the case of the residence of Renfe drivers in Teruel, which in twenty years has reduced the workforce by 50 % and will now retire two people by 2020 and must be repositioned in order to try to reach the twenty-one that they need. There is also the situation of the Civil Guard. We have repeatedly stressed the importance of the State maintaining its presence in all our territories because it has an exemplifying value, as it indicates that the State has not begun to leave the territories. We have similar cases in the Finance Department, in Post Offices and in prisons, not to mention, because they are not the direct competence of the Government, education and health. In health, for example, the situation is being dramatic, many of the local clinics and primary health centres in the rural world have closed down and are not reopening. Our population is very old and is not able to make use of telematics or by phone even for consultations. It is important that action be taken in that regard. In fact, the coordinator of Empty Spain has called for concentrations on the 3rd of October to demand this immediate opening of the centers and a dignified rural health. In conclusion, I urge you that the work of your Government be an acquittal to combat depopulation and that these small elements of the State be restored as soon as possible because it will tell us that the State continues to bet on us and does not want to let us fall into oblivion.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u92	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Guitarte, I agree with you in your concern in this House. I want to share some data that reflects the reality of Public Service in AGE. The average number of staff is around fifty-two years, about ten years from now 50% of the staff will retire. What we want to do - and the Sánchez government has already done with my predecessor Mrs Batet - is to set up an OEP as never before, after many years of the zero-replenishment People's Party. The OEP of 2018 and, especially, the OEP of 2019 meant the biggest call, 33 000 places that are currently being executed and, in addition, we have slipped the holding of these calls until December 2021 because they have been suspended as a result of the pandemic. We are also very sensitive and are already working on the 2020 OEP. I think it is very important to continue to increase the numbers that are retiring to balance the workforce every year, but we are especially sensitive to the rural world, Mr Guitarte. We understand that, if this difficulty is presented in general terms by the AGE, especially in rural areas. That is why the Spanish Government is also carrying out a series of actions which I believe will be extremely interesting for the rural world. First of all, our ministry and that of the fourth vice president are working on the statute of the small municipalities, to create a differentiated regime, because it is not the same a small municipality in a rural area as a large city. Therefore, a differentiated statute, that sets population, that guarantees the provision of the services, but we are also working with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces with the body of the national qualified, in which there are calls but the squares are not covered, and with an attractive program by the ministry that I carry that is the capture of talent. We need to strengthen the value of the public, the importance of the public, which has always been demonstrated and especially in these pandemic circumstances. Therefore, Mr Guitarte, you have the commitment of the Government and this minister to continue working, we do so with the Autonomous Communities, in their case with a close relationship with the Government of Aragon because we also believe that many of the issues that Aragon needs and needs are important. Of course, this ministry is in it and, soon, I think we will also have good news for Aragon. Thank you very much, honourable Member. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED BAL FRANÇAIS, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE IN MANAGEMENT OF THE SECOND WALK OF THE COVID-19 PANDEMIA? [[File number 180/00288]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u94	Question addressed to the Minister for Health. Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u95	Mr Illa, in the European Union Spain has been the first country to overcome half a million infections. We also have the highest number of infected per capita, nine of the ten most infected European regions are Spanish and the only country in Europe that has entered the world's top has been Spain. Has the Government of Spain learned anything during the management of the first wave? How do you rate the management of the second wave?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u96	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, we have seen an increase in cases across Europe, a second wave, also in Spain. Fortunately, it is not the same as we lived in the months of March and April. Before we detected 10% of the cases, we know that because we did a seroprevalence study. Today we are detecting between 60 and 80% of cases. We have 50% of the cases detected that are asymptomatic. The average age is much lower than that of the cases we detected in March or April. The lethality was then 12%, now it is 1% and the hospital pressure is around 10%. Nothing to do with the figures for March and April. However, the situation is worrying. The Government is following what it agreed with the Autonomous Communities on 16 July, the Early Response Plan, adopted within the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. By exercising coordination and monitoring functions, we have already adopted four coordinated actions in public health. And the situation is particularly worrying in the Autonomous Community of Madrid, which is why this Monday, as you know, the President of the Government agreed with the President of the Community of Madrid to adopt enhanced coordination mechanisms, which have been deployed this week. Worrying situation, but with the measures in place to be able to bend the curve, which is the objective that we all Spaniards have. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u98	Mr. French Ball.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u99	All right, Mr. Illa. But don't you want to know what were the mistakes in managing the first wave? Indeed, there was no instruction manual in the first wave, but in this second wave what we cannot afford are excuses of any kind. We were the worst country to manage that first wave, but if we want to learn from these mistakes, we will never repeat them again and we will be able to tell the citizens that we are doing better in this second wave. Citizens, in a responsible way, supported the extensions of the state of alarm despite their harmful management, trying to save lives, because that was important to us. We had one of the most severe confinements in the world and, however, tremendous numbers of contagion and deaths. I think you want to know what failed. A group of experts for the second time has said that we need an independent evaluation, and it is now, it is now, Minister. From Citizens we will support this initiative, we will bring it to Parliament: a committee of real experts, with names and surnames; a committee of experts appointed by the State, by the autonomous communities, independent, away from partisans, not only to detect errors, but also to show us the path of success and success; not to seek guilty, not to find solutions, without political colors, to avoid that dreaded third wave. The Spaniards wonder what the management of this government has been, because it is not managing to hold a press conference saying that the autonomous communities ask for the state of alarm. With 300 contagions we support the state of alarm, with 11,000 contagions and 240 dead we demand that it be involved. We demanded it in Catalonia from the opposition and we demanded it from Madrid. And I believe that you are in the concept of the political truce, and not the arena that you are making against the Community of Madrid your comrades in the Socialist Party. Don't divide us, Mr. Illa, because division costs us lives. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u100	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u101	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Its parliamentary group believes that it has supported tough measures in this House, and I recognise that. The Government is going to make an assessment of the management of COVID-19, of the management that we have all done: the Government, the autonomous communities, all of them. We have to see when we do it, how we do it and who does it, but I tell you that the government is going to make an assessment at the right time. The moment now, Your Honor, is that of the fight against the virus. [[Rumors]] It is still time for the fight against the virus and we must all be together there. The Government is, has always been and continues to be fully involved, but with respect to the competition framework, which is working properly. And I ask that your political group, the group you represent, continue to have the attitude that honours your collaboration, to tie your shoulder and to fight together to double the curve again in Madrid and throughout Spain. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] Is that what you're talking about? OF THE DEPARTMENTAL WOMEN VALLUGERA BALAÑA, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY: WHAT RESOURCES HAVE BEEN MOVED, AS DIRECTLY AS THROUGH TRANSFER TO COMPETENT ADMINISTRATIONS, IN RELATION TO THE CLOSE OF PROSTIBLES BY COVID-19? [[File number: 180/00291]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u102	Question addressed to the Minister for Equality. Question by Mrs Pilar Vallugera Balañà, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u103	Thank you, President. Last August you sent a letter to the governments of the Autonomous Communities requesting the closure of the brothels. After a month of this request, we ask you: What resources have you mobilized both directly and through transfers to the competent administrations in connection with the closure of brothels by COVID-19?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u104	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u105	Thank you, President. As you know, we transfer 140 million euros annually to both autonomous communities and municipalities to combat sexist violence, including measures that both autonomous communities and municipalities can develop to fight and combat sexual exploitation. In addition, in these months of pandemic we have done basically two things that I believe are important: on the one hand, to extend the contingency plan for victims of gender-based violence also to victims of sexual exploitation, victims of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation and women in the context of prostitution and, on the other hand, to have close coordination with the communities, which, as I said, have many of the competences. Tomorrow we have another meeting to continue to evaluate together what things we can do. On this issue - I always tell you honestly - we are going together or we are not going to do anything and I also believe that we have the responsibility to end a situation of macho violence and a form of especially harsh macho violence for many women, who are also in a context in which they need to regain confidence, if ever they had it, in the institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u106	Mrs. Vallugera Balañà.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u107	Thank you, Minister. What we proposed to him was that brothel closure was the ideal time to detect and pursue human trafficking networks. This requires, on the one hand, the protection and recovery of women who have been in this area, and this requires transfers, because they are resources for recovery, housing, education, health care; on the other hand, it has to do with the prosecution of this criminal offence. You know that the Palermo Protocol is an almost unknown instrument by the State Security Forces and Bodies, and that is a problem, because that protocol seeks to protect victims of trafficking in persons in situations of alienity and irregularity. We ask you, please, that if you cannot do this - and I agree that it is a matter that we must tackle together - you pass it on to us, because we have no competence in it and we cannot do what is to be done, which is to prevent them from being expatriated, from being repatriated, from being expelled, and therefore cannot protect them. Two things: we need money, we need political will and we need to be relentless in the fight against trafficking in women. As I am sure that we agree on this, please let us get to work now, because it is going unnoticed for women, who are being reinvisible, all the work that must be done in a completely relentless way against this crime. Therefore, I ask you, Minister, transfers, money for local administrations, which must meet the needs, and powers to prosecute this crime. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u108	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u109	Thank you, President. I think we're in full agreement. I'm going very straight to the point. With regard to the budget, the State Pact mandates us to increase the 15 per cent annual budget of the Government Delegation against Gender Violence and we need to adopt those budgets. Believe me, this executive is going to defend this budget increase as none, precisely in order to increase transfers to the autonomous communities and municipalities to combat macho violence. So there the message is clear: we are at full disposal and we need to approve the budgets. Two issues on which this ministry is focused - and I take this opportunity to thank the work with the Ministry of Justice -: firstly, to end impunity for the pimp industry - that has never been done in this country and I assure you that this government is willing to go further than ever - today we are announcing that the law on sexual freedoms will incorporate the recovery of the third party rental, that is, to end impunity for the owners of the brothel and to punish pimping in all its forms, also non-coactive, to end impunity for pimps, that right now the Attorney General's Office itself says that they receive and take five million euros a day, most of them in black money, and precisely at the cost of the sexual exploitation of women, therefore of sexist violence; and finally, to guarantee the rights of all women. I think we will not end prostitution, sexual exploitation if we are not able to guarantee economic alternatives, work alternatives, housing alternatives for these women. Therefore, a comprehensive plan is needed - we work with Employment in a specific employment plan for these women - and guarantee the rights of women victims of sexual exploitation. I think... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u110	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JOSÉ ORTIZ GALVAN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATION: HOW DOES THE IRREGULAR MIGRATION PRESSURE VALUE ON SPAIN? [[File number 180/00283]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u111	Questions to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. Question by Mr José Ortiz Galván, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u112	Thank you, Madam President. We've had a minister! Finally, we have succeeded in having you come to this House to explain the harsh summer that we have also had in the area of migration, after rejecting the appearances that we requested of you and also after the scarecrow you made last week. To be independent the truth is that it copies fairly well the bad practices of socialists, as Pedro Sánchez did today fleeing legitimate parliamentary control. And yes, Minister, it has been a very hard summer, with areas of Spain completely overflowing, especially the Canary Islands, with totally collapsed reception centers, with riots included, escape of immigrants with coronavirus, and so could continue. We are impatient, Minister, to hear your assessment of the migratory pressure we are suffering. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u113	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u114	With regard to my appearance, I would simply like to remind you that exactly when I had to appear last week I was in Brussels with Vice-President Schinas, the competent Vice-President, at a very important meeting to see all the migration problems in Spain and also in preparing to convey the Spanish position in the proposal that the Commission is going to make in the coming days on the European Pact on Immigration and Asylum. Then I think it was perfectly justified that I was defending Spain's interests last week and that we could move the response to your concern to this week, it seems to me, but, well, you think that my agenda has to be organized in a different way. [[applause]] Of course, in the face of this kind of dilemma, knowing that there was cooking there what was being cooked and that here I could answer to you a week later, I had no doubt how to reorganize the agenda, and I think everyone understands it. As for the situation, I'm going to give you the general picture. Arrived in Spain by different channels this year we carried about 64 000,7000 through the sea of Alborán, 3000 through the Strait, 5000 in the Canary Islands, 300 - very low this year - in Ceuta and Melilla and - I repeat - 64 000 by other routes. The latter is the most important and silent channel but the one that leads us most to attend to and to have to establish our reception policy; towards those 64,000, which reach us through all kinds of routes: air, land, etc. Many of them call for the right to asylum, which is later denied, but are in our host system. We're talking about 80,000. How does it compare? For the average year 2017, there were 115 000 in a full year, and for 2019, which was a particularly strong year, there were 178 000. Then, I would say that we are in a year of average entry, with greater intensity across the Alborán Sea by the Algerian line, a little higher in the Canary Islands, more mitigated the arrivals by the Strait and very little in Ceuta. And we continue with a strong arrival mainly from Latin America through different channels. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u115	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Ortiz Galván.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u116	Thank you very much, President. Mr Minister, you are still in the macro, far from reality, you do not recognize the problem we have, regrettably. In the Canary Islands, irregular migration has increased by 573.5%; Canary hotels, instead of hosting tourism, are housing migrants because of their lack of planning. In Ceuta and Melilla the reception centers are completely overflowing and the bullring has had to be enabled. In my province, in Cadiz, the arrival of immigrants is already extended across the entire coast. In Balearic Islands there are new routes to Ibiza and Formentera. In Murcia, migrants without a bed, with only one shower and forty degrees in the sun. In Almería, migrants on the streets without keeping quarantine. In Albacete, public disorder. And so in more areas of Spain than you have had time to visit for your 'deserved holidays', close quotes. There is also a lack of resources for the security forces and bodies, and we demand a protocol of action for them. And no, we are not subscribed to either in Europe. Its partner in government admitted yesterday that there will be massive regularisation in Spain, against the European pact. Mr Escrivá, what is the migration strategy of the Government of Spain? Who carries out the Government's migration policy? Some days it seems that you and other days it seems that Mr. Vice-President Pablo Iglesias is carrying it. Papers for everyone, yes or no? I'm sorry you can't answer me. But I am more sorry that you do not have an answer, because it seems that you are not the Minister of Migration of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARGARITY PROHENS RIGO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESION, WHICH FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATION: TO HOW MANY FAMILIES WHO HAVE REQUESTED THE MINIMUM VITAL REVENUE HAVE BEEN GRANTED TO THEM ON 31 AUGUST 2020? [[File number 180/00284]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u117	Question by Mrs Margarita Prohens Rigo, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u118	Thank you, President. On the Anti-Sexual Exploitation Day, allow me to doubt that it is this government that blocks commissions of inquiry - or some of those sitting on the blue bench - that will put an end to pimping. Minister, they promised to reach 5 million people with the minimum living income, then 2 million and now, reaching 260 000, for you it is a success. More than 90% of unanswered applications: a success. Do not tell me now that you are going to pay retroactively, because no one eats retroactively, nor tell me that the requests are incomplete. Was the excessive complexity for them to go to the headquarters of Podemos to help them? Now without makeup: How do you plan to fix this chaos? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u119	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u120	The honourable Member would have suggested that, before asking the question, she would have been informed by well-known speakers in her parliamentary group, who would have explained to her what it meant to process 900 000 dossiers of a benefit of the nature of the minimum living income, and perhaps with that information she would have formulated it differently. In any case, I'm going to give first the figures on where we are right now, because they're going wrong. Yesterday there are 90 000 families who already benefit from the minimum living income, which means, since they are households, more than 280,000 people. That's the starting figure. Then, if you want, we look for points of reference in other services of autonomous communities, to see at what pace they have gone or how they process, and we get an idea of whether this is little or much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u121	Mrs. Prohens Rigo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u122	Minister, I do not know whether the answer was addressed to the People's Group or to the Vice-President, because where you see success for Mr Iglesias is unacceptable. Minimum income is the example that this two-in-one Government does not work. To Mr. Iglesias they gave the banner, to you the BOE, and the management, as is evident, to both of them. In the propaganda Podemos said it was historical, for the PSOE the income worthy. Do you know what this is? [[Show a picture]] The reality, the queues in a social dining room in Mallorca, where they have granted only fifteen new benefits and there are 2300 people waiting, because propaganda is not eaten. There is no social shield for those who do not receive the ERTE; for trade and restoration, to whom they have condemned; for self-employed persons, to whom contributions are going to go up; for salaries and pensions that are going to freeze or, as published, for the 100,000 pensioners, pensioners, widowers and orphans, who have been unpaid for four months. There is no social shield because this government is a social deception. And you've squandered the trust we gave you and your reputation, because when you've managed to manage you've collapsed this country's social security and yet you haven't heard that this isn't going to save Private Sanchez, it's going to save Spain and the Spanish. And the millions of Spaniards who urgently need minimum income, these, Minister, are not like the president's friends, these do not come out stronger. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u123	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u124	I think it is difficult to find a more demagogic intervention. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Of the 840 000 dossiers received by Social Security - and it is a success to receive 840 000 dossiers in this period - 40 % have been resolved in three months. Of that 40%, approximately one third have already been granted minimum living income. 45 % is pending, and the potential beneficiaries have been contacted to complete the dossier. Finally, there is a denial of around 20%. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u125	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u126	When one compares this extraordinary effort made by Social Security, which is indeed a success, with those made by the Autonomous Communities, which made a fiscal shield, a shield of support in its time, many years ago, which have failed, and that is why we have had to go out, we see the following. If you choose a medium shield, Galicia, do you know how many files you processed in the first year, in the whole year? He processed 3,000; us, 300,000. Do you know how many Galicia solved five years later? He solved 7,000. Do you know how many you solve today, twenty-five years later? Solve 10,000. And it's one of the intermediate autonomous communities, there are the worst. And do you know how long it takes Galicia twenty-five years to resolve a vital minimum income file? Four months. Those are the references that... [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u127	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON IÑAKI RUIZ DE PINEDO UNDIANO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATIONS: WILL THE GOVERNMENT TERMINATE WITH SUCCESSIVE RESOURCES IN PENSIONS? [[File number 180/00271]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u128	Question from the congressman... [[Rumors]] Mrs. Vazquez, please. Question by Mr Iñaki Ruiz from Pinedo Undiano, from the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u129	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, in your recent public statements on the government's objectives in relation to the social security situation, you have not mentioned the serious economic situation of low-income pensioners and the need for these pensions to be dignified. That is why my question is: will the government end with successive cuts in pensions, which are cuts that lead to the application of existing legislation? Does the Government's objectives exclude raising minimum pensions to a minimum level above the poverty thresholds?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u130	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u131	Mr Ruiz de Pinedo, I think you put the emphasis on something that is very important, and that is that when you look at the structure of pensions in Spain there are very big differences. That is why in recent years minimum pensions have had higher growth and higher pensions have sometimes even been met. In other words, this has meant the introduction of a certain redistribution within the pension system. And I think that this is a line in which we must continue to move forward, we must continue to study, especially since, in fact, lower-income pensioners tend to live less - this is very much studied - and probably benefit less from the system. It is therefore justified to introduce elements in line with what you put forward on progressivity within the social security system. There are different ways to do this, but I believe that in the context of the Toledo Pact we can agree on the most appropriate mechanisms to move forward in this area. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u132	Mr. Ruiz of Pinedo Undiano.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u133	Madam President, thank you very much. The situation is that today more than 30% of households dependent on a pension are in a precarious situation, and it is a situation that must be present among the objectives of the government urgently, because it is not only an accounting issue, but a matter of rights. We cannot afford to have a medium- and long-term government plan that does not allow these sectors to be brought out of poverty. It must be a priority objective that there are no people, families who depend on a pension that live in permanent precariousness. Therefore, we urge you to listen to the pensioners, who have been on the street for years; they are not on the whim. They're claiming decent pensions. They ask only that, worthy pensions, which, according to the methodology of the European Social Charter, in Euskal Herria would be around 1080 euros. Let's see which way we have to go to get to that. While the messages that the pensioners are hearing are not about the dignity of these pensions, the only thing they hear in public statements is about the increase in retirement age and cuts. We would like to see today's commitment to these demands made by the pension movement so that we can move hand in hand with them and them towards that future without poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u134	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u135	On the basis of their reflection, I believe that there are elements that must be passed on to pensioners. The Toledo Pact is about to reach an agreement that will clear their uncertainty, pensions will be revalued and will retain their purchasing power according to the CPI. This is a widespread and very important claim from the point of view of certainty, I have no doubt. But we too have in mind that non-contributory pensions can be integrated into the scheme of minimum living income in the future. Therefore, defining those pensions better, not from the individual's point of view, but from the home in which it is located, and being able to have a more just approach to dealing with vulnerability situations is another line in which we are willing to work, and I think it will be important. I would also say that, since we have introduced minimum living income and are releasing assistance resources to the Autonomous Communities, they now have the possibility to supplement these non-contributory pensions up to 30% above, and in the Basque Country it is already being done in part. Now there will be more resources on the part of the autonomous communities, and, if they consider it, they can... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u136	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u137	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe, on the Government's forecasts to address the greatest impact of the crisis in the Canary Islands due to its unique features and its reflection in the State's General Budgets for 2021. For your defence, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Madam Minister, the reason for this urgent inquiry by New Canarias is related to the enormous concern we have on our land about the consequences of the impact of the crisis on the Canary Islands, which are obviously superior to those of the rest of the Spanish State and what will be its reflection in the State's General Budgets for the year 2021. There is no doubt that this is the biggest public health crisis humanity has faced since 1918. This is incontrovertible, as the indicators for use also show. We have acknowledged the efforts of the Government of Spain to respond to the consequences of the crisis with countercyclical measures by resorting to indebtedness - just the opposite of what was done at the previous stage - and, accordingly, we have supported the numerous measures put in place in this direction. - Excuse me for taking off my mask, but I'm a little suffocated. Among these measures, we have recognized that updating autonomous financing without addressing the consequences of the economic cycle has been a fundamental measure for many communities, including the Canary Islands, although we believe that for all. We believe that the non-reimbursable funds to the Autonomous Communities have enabled them to survive this very difficult situation. The application of ERTs, the application of minimum living income and aid to self-employed people are all measures that we have supported. It is true that we maintain a discrepancy that we hope to resolve in relation to local corporations and the use of their surpluses and their remnants. We have also pointed out that the impact of the pandemic does not affect to an equal extent all the communities of the Spanish State, and this is unfortunately something that we can demonstrate in the case of the Canary Islands in a reliable way. We do not need to go to creative interpretations to explain the harshness of the impact of the crisis on the Canarian Community. This is not by chance, it responds to an obvious reality and data that are incontrovertible. The Canarian Community, as we know, depends basically on tourism activity, so that it impacts - we have already said to the satisfaction - three times more than on the average of the state, both in its GDP and in the employment generated in this land. Therefore, if the fundamental consequence of the pandemic has been precisely its negative impact on the tourism sector, the damage is absolutely evident and the situation potentially catastrophic. I can give you some data. 10% of the Spanish state's ERTs are in the Canary Islands, where their population is 4.2% of the Spanish population; in fact, more than twice as much as we would have. In the second quarter of the year the fall in GDP in the Canary Islands is 14 points higher than the average of the Spanish State. It is true that this will be corrected later, but we already have a difference that makes it perfectly clear that here we come not to invent things, but to make clear an obvious reality. As a first step, therefore, it is imperative to extend the ERTs until the economic situation in the Canary Islands is resolved and minimally normalised, including the response to situations arising from the rebounds. It is also necessary to implement a unique tourist plan for the Canary Islands, which defended this Member about three weeks ago and which was supported by the absolute majority of this House. Without a doubt, these data make it clear that we have some singularities in the Canary Islands that require a set of measures that must also be unique. That's why we're doing our job, too. I have to tell you that we approved yesterday the Canaries Reactive Plan, which is an orderly planning of actions around a set of widely agreed and quantified measures. The Finance Board is also actively working on the preparation of the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community for the year 2021 - with the firm intention that they will be approved before the end of the year so that they can enter into force on 1 January - prioritising the maintenance of public services at all costs; the continuation of support for workers and all sectors of the population most affected by the pandemic, and finally the need to invest from the public sector to stimulate demand, because it is clear that the private sector is not able to do so. These are the so-called anticyclical measures that I'm sure you know better than I do. Therefore, I think we are working in the right direction, but we need a set of actions higher than this. Canary Islands alone cannot respond to this situation, as no community can. That is why we need to clear a set of incognites for the development of the canary budgets. The first is that we do not know the stability objectives for this year - you said you were going to say it in September - and without knowing the stability objectives singularized by autonomous communities we will hardly be able to continue working on the preparation of budgets. And it is also necessary to know what revenue we will receive from autonomous funding. This year his ministry has done something very important, which is to apply the criteria of autonomous financing without taking into account the negative economic cycle. This has been decisive for the Canarian Community - I think for others too - to have obtained answers to their needs. We'll plant the same for next year. It is necessary that the deliveries on account are not those corresponding to a negative economic cycle because then, simply, they will leave a blow impossible to solve. He knows perfectly well that the autonomous financial system accounts for 72% of the revenue of the Canarian Community, so I am sure he understands that if the 2020 criteria were not applied, the loss will be around 500 to 650 million euros, an impossible figure to accept for a community like ours. And we will have to add that the tax revenues of the Canarian Community for the year 2021 are going to suffer a decrease of about 450 million euros compared to the initial budget of 2020, that is, a negative element more than if it adds to the previous one, we are talking about about about a billion euros, a monstrous figure for a community like the Canarian. There is a matter pending in 2018. I know we've talked a lot about this, but I have to tell you again. It is urgent to transfer the 500 million euros that the Canarian Community won to the State by judgment of the Supreme Court for the violations of the road agreement between 2006 and 2018. This amount of EUR 500 million is included in your ministry's account 413 as a debt to the Canarian Community. One could discuss what this money can be used for. We think it has to be to deal with the consequences of the crisis for a reason. The Supreme Court's ruling makes it clear that the aim is to compensate the Canarian Community for having spent EUR 500 million on what it would not have had to be spent if the State had complied in due course. That is why we believe that this measure, if it has so far been questionable, is now simply essential, Minister. Simply, it is essential with the data I have given you. If with these measures we find ourselves with the same budget as at the beginning of 2020, it is clear that we are not in a position to meet all the needs of the Canary Islands, which is why we need the Canary Islands to be in debt. This has already happened with two autonomous communities to a greater extent as set out in the stability objectives. Besides, there's a reason. If it were a wasteful community... but it's just that Canarias has excellent financial health. We have the lowest per capita debt of all Spanish society and the second, after the Basque Country, in relation to GDP. The General Budgets of the State are an absolutely essential chapter for the Canary Islands to work in response to its problems. Here I express to you the will of New Canarias to contribute as far as possible to making the General Budgets of the State for the year 2021 a reality in time and form. In time and form, although this is starting to get more and more complicated. We believe that you understand that there is only one issue that Canaries cannot fail to raise in relation to the General Budgets of the State: compliance with its responsibilities, the Law on the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands and the new statute of autonomy adopted in November 2018 by the vast majority of this Parliament. This means complying with certain headings, from the comprehensive employment plan of the Canary Islands to the donation of the additional Posei in its entirety, through aid for agricultural irrigation water, etc. It's all in the REF. This is an organic law, as you know, protected and constitutionally considered. European funding is the third element we could count on to try to act in this potentially catastrophic situation. The only thing we want is for those extraordinary European funds - those of the Next Generation, to understand us - which are a very relevant amount of EUR 72 billion to Spain for non-reimbursable transfers?, to be applied with the same criteria as the European Union applies them in all the Member States, that is, in view of the impact and damage of the crisis, considered this by territories and also by economic sectors. If that were so, we would be in a position to speak of a reasonable response, adapted, to the singularities of the Canary Islands, in no way related to whims or gifts, but precisely to the right we have to claim for the Canary Islands, which is undoubtedly a right of our people. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u140	Thank you, President. Mr Quevedo - I see you are coming to your seat - first of all, I wanted to thank you for the tone of your presentation, your inquiry, and therefore for the approach you have tried to bring to the heart of this House. I believe that with the data that you have seen from this rostrum and with some that I will add to it we can give an X-ray of the situation of the Canary Islands - of the autonomous community - as you say, one of the territories of the country most punished by the pandemic in the part that has to do with the economic nature - not with the health nature, fortunately - and, without a doubt, with the dependence of the tourism that this territory has - of a fundamental sector for our economy - it is obvious that all the worrying data that you give and all the questions that you raise about future prospects are taken very seriously into account by this government and, of course, analysed in detail. I want to say to you, Your Honor, that I believe that I share with you that the pandemic has not only marked a before and after in relation to the provision of public services - I believe that we are all more advocates of the public insofar as it has become the real safety mattress of all citizens - but also - how not - it has to make us reflect on the structure of our productive fabric, on the challenges our country needs to ensure that its interdependence with some sectors - so that, in some way, the variability that it represents above all in adjustments of the labour market - has another perspective for the coming years, which is why the Government from the first day - from the President's investiture speech - until the last meeting that is taking place today in Brussels brings a clear roadmap, the momentum of major digital projects, of ecological transition, the fight against inequality, economic cohesion, territorial cohesion, which is going to allow not only to emerge strong from this pandemic but above all to take advantage of all the opportunities that require an acceleration - if I may say this - with regard to the road map marked earlier. In fact, our country - you know it - at the beginning of this year had managed to achieve robust growth, a share of GDP that somehow made us think that we had a more flattering economic cycle ahead and with a high projection against the international powers with which we obviously have to work in a competitive tone. This trend is - I hope temporarily - altered during this period of the pandemic, and what this government has done since the first day from its economic area has been to mitigate and minimize the impact of the fall in economic growth, mainly because of the confinement that we live in earlier this year, because we knew that there was difficulty in the rapid recovery of certain sectors, such as the tourism sector and the restoration sector, as you say, those which are at this time the highest unemployment figures and which, on the other hand, depend on the opening up of international traffic in order to be able to recover their growth to the type that it had before the pandemic. Your Honor, you also know that the government has behaved from the beginning and, in addition to protecting its productive fabric, has tried to protect incomes. In fact, the monthly collection also shows that there has indeed been a real income protection policy in this country that is allowing families, obviously with difficulties, to be treated differently than they had with previous governments, for example the People's Party Government. Moreover, that social protection shield has even led to legislation on a single benefit in our history, unique in our country, which in some way also marks a before and after in the fight against inequality, such as minimum living income, which is subject to certain adjustments so that its processing is faster and we can respond in time and in shape to the needs of the citizens. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have spared no effort in actually doing an economic policy, as you said, countercyclical to allow us to protect that income, to protect jobs, jobs, and also to give a breath, an oxygen to the productive fabric itself, the ICO lines are a clear example of this. In addition, you commented and perhaps this is the part on which I wanted to focus on this intervention, there has been a special sensitivity with the territorial administrations, autonomous communities, municipalities, basically from the premise, ladies and gentlemen, that the problems that citizens have, regardless of which Administration is responsible for providing these services, are also problems of the Government of Spain. We have never hidden ourselves, we have not squatted our heads, nor have we made the strategy of the ostrich that other governments made, where each of their lot was abandoned and, therefore, services such as health, education or social protection services were frankly altered or frankly diminished by the austerid adjustment policies that the People's Party practiced. We were clear, ladies and gentlemen, that this Government was not going to do the same and was not going to repeat that road map. Quite the opposite. When the Government raised, it promoted the COVID-19 Fund, what we wanted to convey was all our support for the autonomous communities basically in health and education, which were, say, the most tense services due to the arrival of patients or the start of the school year with specific security measures, and the 16 billion have shown - and the indicators suggest so - that it was really a need on the part of the autonomous communities that is being used precisely to try to strengthen these public services. It is therefore a good initiative that allows the autonomous communities not to face a problem today that could have been very serious, of non-payment, for example, of health providers with difficulty of supply and, on the other hand, without being able to hire people, doctors, health professionals, teachers, everything that the autonomous communities need, in order to give tranquillity and certitude to the whole of the citizenry. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands - always this data is provisional, it is not necessary to take it from an absolute point of view, but it is indicative of how economic fluidity is taking place in the autonomous communities - recorded at the end of June a surplus of 79 million, when in the same period of the previous year, precisely on that date, it recorded a rather large deficit. This is due to the increase in resources that have reached the autonomous community, a higher increase than expenditure by 7 percentage points and an increase that is explained by the advance of this funding precisely to combat the consequences of COVID. It is clear that over the course of the year those resources that arrive together or jointly will have to be distributed and at the end the photo of the autonomous community will not look like that of June, but I do believe that it is a fact that allows us to know that the autonomous community is acting correctly, it is fulfilling its tax obligations, basically average period of payment to suppliers, despite, as you said, the very important impact that the fall of tourism and associated sectors has had on public accounts. In fact, the Canary Islands, like other territories, is going to count on the greatest funding in its history this year, Mr Quevedo, probably at the most appropriate time to have that best funding, because never before has there been such a major strain on health services or a concern of the educational community to try to make things right and our boys and girls are in safe centers and we have the capacity to keep the virus out. That same amount that I have just commented on regarding the surplus can be seen in other kinds of economic indicators that abound in which we are in the right direction. You, too, speak of an extremely important element for the Canary Islands, such as the volume of workers who have taken over the ERTE; nothing more than a total of 83 500 workers, indeed the figure that I have given it, which means that on 31 August security has been produced in this sector so that the productive fabric, the companies do not do what they traditionally do, that it is making economic adjustments at the expense of dismissal, but that a procedure has actually been provided that is proving very effective; very effective because it allows not only to have this guarantee of income but also that experience is indicating that the workers are reintegrating, I would even say that in an online volume with what the Government had planned, so that it has served precisely what it was designed for: for a temporary adjustment of employment that would subsequently allow the companies to recover this volume of workers. Do not worry, Mr Quevedo, because this week we are closing the negotiations in the framework of the social dialogue and we are convinced that there will be agreement and we will not get up from the negotiation until the agreement develops. It is clear that the tourism sector is one of the sectors that is going to be incorporated into that protection. Other details are being discussed, but we will certainly agree this week on an issue of concern to all, but above all that it is proving to be a very effective weapon to combat job loss. I have to tell you that 68,000 self-employed persons have benefited up to that date, 31 August, from the extraordinary termination benefit. I believe that this is also a very important fact because it is the first time in our history that we have so massively launched a benefit towards a collective that has been significantly damaged during this pandemic time. Mr Quevedo Iturbe, we know the uniqueness of the territories; you will probably have the details from the canary government of how the issues are developing, but we know what dependence the Canary Islands has on tourism, how it is impacting on its decline in GDP, of course in a way superior to that produced in other autonomous communities and what this means in terms of unemployment for an autonomous community that has been fighting for years so that unemployment does not miss the opportunities, especially for younger generations. I believe, Your Honor, that we are taking steps and all the resources that we can bring them closer. This has happened in the past, for example, with the Thomas Cook line, which is aimed at the tourism sector, and I think it is also happening now, where we are prolonging, for example, the bonus for discontinuous workers in the tourism sector, trade and hospitality in the Canary Islands, an element requested by your Government and involving a direct subsidy of 15 million euros, also for the Canary Islands. I conclude this first intervention, Your Honor, by telling you that I hope that the entry into force of the new Economic and Fiscal System, approved in 2018, will also provide a palliative for the future with regard to the financing deficit that Canary Islands has historically had in relation to the common system. On that idea and on that assumption we work. In my second speech I will be able to abound in some of the questions that you have raised regarding your demands for the budgetary pact, but I will end by telling you, Mr Quevedo, that we are fulfilling what we have agreed, that we will comply with what has been agreed to make Mr Sánchez's investiture possible. Don't worry because this government, together with the government of the Canary Islands, is making sure that this pandemic has the least impact possible and the Canary Islands can regain the path of prosperity and growth that it had at the beginning of 2020. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u141	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u142	Thank you again, Madam President. Now I will intervene without suffocation or racing. First of all, Minister, I thank you for the tone of your response to this urgent inquiry into New Canarias. You have pointed out issues with which I have already told you that we agree. We believe it is an anticyclical response. The public sector is coming to the rescue of citizens and those who are the worst - businesses, self-employed people, SMEs - and that is something we have applauded because it is what we believe corresponds to in a crisis situation. We agree on the diagnosis of what ERTEs have meant. I say to you again that the Canary Islands today has a number - which you have pointed out and it is correct - of people who are welcome to ERTE which is much greater than it would be for the population, which makes it perfectly clear that we are not joking. That is to say, this is because there is a much higher loss of economic activity than the rest of the Spanish state and this is noted in the 14 points of difference in GDP. Whatever it is, there's going to be 14 points of difference in the end, of which I have almost no doubt. Therefore, we are talking about a situation that is not precisely due to anxiety or the desire to announce an additional state of alarm on the part of New Canarias but is simply a description of reality. We are at a serious risk of social fracture in the Canary Islands, as you perfectly know. I understand that you do not land on the whole set of issues that I have rigorously raised - the tripod on which basically enough canary budgets are based to deal with the situation in which we are - and I have to point them out to you again. It is clear that the deliveries on account of autonomous financing are 72 %, that is what weighs on the canary budgets. We need those funds to be transferred, but not according to the economic cycle, because then they would be negative and in that case we would simply have a bigger problem than we already have. I have to remind you again of the famous €500 million in the 2018 sentence. That's money that you know belongs to the Canary Islands. We can discuss, you might wonder what they can be used for, but I'll tell you one thing: that's money that Canarias spent on what it didn't have to do to be able to comply with the road agreement that the state government failed to comply with at the time. It's that simple. Therefore, that money must now serve - it is our opinion - to help recover from the dramatic crisis in which we are and in which we are going to continue to be until there is a definitive solution. I mean, we're fighting hard to save the tourist season. I would like to recall here that we have put forward a set of unique policies that are perfectly applicable to the Canary Islands, such as the issue of safe corridors. He knows that we are normalizing the rebounds, fortunately, and we are already in internationally acceptable numbers. We need that stimulus but, still, the tourist season is not going to be the same and therefore the damage is going to be enormous. I mean, this is perfectly clear. I turn to the question of borrowing capacity in the Canary Islands community. We're not going to do anything about judging others. There have been communities to which you have improved the objectives of stability and we have no doubt about it, it seems good to us; but we believe that if there is a community that is in a position to go to debt when it is necessary, at absolutely competitive prices in the market because of its financial sufficiency it is precisely Canary Islands. Therefore, this is a central issue and when setting the stability objectives for the preparation of the budget we trust that there will be a definition of objectives singularized by communities, because not all communities are in the same situation or have the same problems, and I say this with absolute respect for the problems of all the communities of the Spanish State. It was just missing! I would also like to say that the ultraperipheral status of the Canary Islands is not just a word, it is something that the European Union recognises as a unique disadvantage in relation to the other communities of the Spanish State and of Europe. This is a strong element in which we believe that you must insist on two things: to obtain the funds that are required from the extraordinary funds of the European Union and also to raise - and I say it now at the end - the need to establish a public service obligation on flights between the Canary Islands and the rest of the Spanish State, because it is the only way to put a stop to the maximum reference prices. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u143	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. To conclude the debate, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u144	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo, for your second speech. I share many of the statements you have made from the rostrum. Of course, we recognize the work of the Government of the Canary Islands in controlling the rebounds that are appearing in isolation in some parts of the autonomous community. We are working - you know it well - on this safe brokering strategy, which will allow the approach of other European countries to the security of destination Spain to also have a qualitative analysis differentiated by territory, because, of course, it is not the same to go to areas where there is a greater spread of the virus at Community level than to areas where the situation is absolutely controlled at the moment. That line of collaboration between the two Governments is therefore absolutely essential if we are to be able to send a message of certainty to the citizens and row in the same direction, allowing us to redouble our efforts and not to be two vectors that each one pulls for their side. We would like to express the satisfaction of the joint work with the Government of the Canary Islands. I will refer to some of the issues that you have raised. Indeed, we are in the process of drawing up budgets. Once we have the skeleton, the fundamental core - I have already made progress in my recent appearances that around 80 or 85% of the budget is already made and the discussion always lies at some extremes that are in that remaining 15 or 20% - we will be able to talk with your parliamentary group to see what the requirements are, from the perspective of realism that we have at the moment all the public administrations, which allow to contribute, also from the state level, so that the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands can get out of this crisis situation associated with the health pandemic in the fastest possible way. As long as I'm left, Your Honor, I'm going to refer to the deliveries on account. It is clear that cash deliveries must be calculated on the basis of the macroeconomic forecasts that the Government has projected for the coming year. Whenever this Government has had the opportunity to choose, it has chosen what benefits the territory and the autonomous communities most. We don't always have that capacity. In 2019 we updated the deliveries on account based on a preliminary draft of budgets that was presented in this House, which finally did not see the light, but which allowed to have a legal anchor that had the Government of Spain authorize the update of those deliveries on account. This year we had also made a forecast, even this Parliament approved a deficit path at the beginning of the year - it seems like an eternity, but not so many months ago - on the basis of macroeconomic forecasts that have also allowed us to update the deliveries on account in 2020 to 1.6, which at that time was the growth forecast that was being proposed for this year. Unfortunately, for the year 2021 there are forecasts of how GDP is going to behave that are not going to have that gap that was in this year 2020. I agree with you that the autonomous communities have to have sufficient resources - in a year that is going to be difficult in terms of health and will continue to be complicated in terms of normality in schools until vaccination reaches all the citizens - of course used rigorously, within the framework of which we have each given ourselves. We will discuss this in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council that I intend to convene shortly, close to the presentation of the expenditure ceiling in this Congress. Your Honor, you were also referring to the failure to comply with the judgment on agreements regulating a situation arising from the lack of commitment of the previous governments of the People's Party. This is a situation that this Executive has inherited, and I want to tell you that this Executive intended to settle that account with the previous Government of the Canary Islands, even wanted to give effect to the judgment in the way that the Attorney-General's Office understood affecting the public accounts. It was not possible, I was not then governing this government - I know your intention now - but there was no lack of initiative from Mr Sánchez's government to settle, as you have said, that debt to the autonomous community. We will take it into account in next year's budget forecast. I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that all the budget items that you were transferring here for sanitation and drinking water on all the islands are also necessary and will therefore be included in the draft budgets that we will be pushing for. I'm done. As you said, Your Honor, with regard to the deficit target to be formalised in the Joint Commission with the Basque Government, there is no kind of aggravation compared to the rest of the territory. I do not think it is a good thing for the debate to confuse the fiscal situation of the Basque Country with that of the rest of the territories, including the Canary Islands, whose island regions also have a unique situation with respect to the rest of the territories. The fixing of the debt and deficit of the Basque Country has been due to the fact that they do not receive, but that they directly collect tax - corporation tax, IRPF, etc. -. Therefore, the same thing that has happened to the rest of the autonomous communities with the update of deliveries on account of the 1.6 has been done with the Basque Country, rather than by transfer through the deficit target, because it is they who have the loss in their capacity to collect. Consequently, there is no comparative aggravation. We have to adapt to the singularities of each territory. And don't worry, all administrations will be able to participate in the implementation of European funds. We need to agree on tractor projects, which are really going to allow us to take advantage of that situation for our country's economic recovery. We are confident that we will have the cooperation and loyalty of the Government of the Canary Islands to ensure that this situation passes as soon as possible and that we can recover that path of prosperity from which we spoke at the beginning of the intervention. They have the support of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u145	Thank you, Minister. - the people's parliamentary group at the conference, so that the government can benefit from the alarms recently made known in connection with the economy and the employment of the Spaniards. [[File number 172/000053]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u146	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress into the Government's recent alarming forecasts of the economy and employment of the Spaniards. For your defense, Mr. Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u147	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, for your assistance here today. When one tries to make a reflection, a diagnosis and, above all, to seek solutions for the future, it is necessary to see what are the usual protocols of action of the Socialist Party in any crisis. In that sense, the truth is that you never deceive us, you are predictable. If we had to write the book of our country's economic history, they're going to be the worst government in the past forty years, and I'm sorry, because I have personal appreciation for the worst economic minister in the past forty years in this country. Despite this placebo effect that usually works with some economic measures, it is the indicators that place each one in the plane of their ranking, and today Spain is at the tail of all representative rankings. From that perspective, if we are at the back of all the indicators, of course, we are the worst. We will be able to analyse the scope for improvement and we will be able to analyse whether we have done things right or wrong, but today, Madam Vice-President, we are the worst. Let's explain. First of all, because the first principle of action - it is a principle, I say, almost customary, conventional to Spanish socialism - is negationism, it is the denial of reality. Nothing's as it had to be. I have already explained to them that between the Solbes-Pizarro dilemma, they could take the realistic pragmatism of Pizarro and they always took the theory of concealment and lies, the theory of fallacy. You have become a kind of clone of Fernando Simón, that there would only be one or two cases diagnosed in Spain, that the economic crisis would be transitory and evidently ephemeral. You remember. It was March 3rd this year. Obviously, that was not the case, and we are now suffering one of the worst situations in the last hundred years of our country, not only political, but also health and economic. You know what Santa Teresa used to say? The words are liquid, the facts are of stone. And you have very little stone because, I insist, except for the literary placebo of words, you are certainly doing absolutely nothing. Do you remember what other countries did, such as Germany? Germany suspended all types of concentrations before 8 March, limiting them. In the case of Italy, for example, they were suspended on 8 March. You attended that demonstration and, fortunately, you did not get the disease. True, because many of the women and men who went to that demonstration contracted the disease. At least you don't have the impudence that Fernando Simón has to get on motorcycles or to be doing TV shows right now; at least you're a ministry professional. However, you condemn the same demeanor, having denied, in an absolute strategy of conceptual negationism, what was going to happen. Therefore, I insist, you will end up being subject to the judgment of the economic history of this country, as it cannot be otherwise. Do you remember what they did in the second week of March? Adopt a EUR 200 million line of credit for tourism. Exceltur is already estimating that the cost of economic deterioration for tourism exceeds EUR 100 billion. A great forecast, a great diagnosis. Really, they were not going to deceive us, because we knew that the first thing in that catechism with which you are acting right now, to which, by the way, the adalides of Spanish neocommunism have also joined, is to deny everything that happens. Secondly, there came another situation, which is the arrival at the new communism. Do you remember what happened on March 29th? On 29 March, a bad night for the political history of this country, the Minister of Labour managed to bend our backs and pass two decree-laws in his government in a collegiate way - you are responsible for the economic matter - as you know, Decree-Law 9 and Decree-Law 10. Look, we warned him that it was not the solution, look that we warned him that this would condemn many companies at the close, look that we warned him that this was going to be a real job crusher, and so it was. You're co-responsible. Here the blame is neither tardiness nor help, nor God who creates you; here the fault is yours. You are responsible for the destruction of 100 000 companies in this country and 750 000 jobs. The third derivative is already recreationism. You are creationists, first you deny it and then the story begins. What happens is that, coming from the account of a minister like you, who really respected his rigour, his academicism and of course his strong understanding of what the functional duties are, we presented a national plan of reforms and an update of the stability programme that did not give one, but did not give one because he said it, now incarcerated of the modeling, as we saw this morning, the Minister of Inclusion when he was president of the AIReF, and of course the AIReF, then, did not give any of the predictions he made. I recall that you estimated an increase in public expenditure of around 6%, but at that time you predicted an increase in the salaries of public employees of 6%. Madam Vice-President, we have to come here and answer questions, yes or no. Are you going to freeze the salaries of public employees? Are they going to reduce the salary by 3,100 000 public employees? But there was more. An increase of 8.6% in intermediate consumption was expected. Are you really going to pursue discretionary spending without having made an adjustment by analyzing what are the good things and what are the shortcomings of public spending? Are we going to go exactly the same way? But there was a fourth derivative within what is the usual methodological approach of the sociological left and the political left in this country, that is, everything goes well. I thought you applied credit to grapes, but do you know what you applied? Solbencia with be de Solbes, has also become Solbes and has denied absolutely everything. And not only has he denied it, but, I insist, he has applied the placebo effect to try to hide some of the damage and economic deterioration that is taking place in this country. That's the reality, we have a lot of data. I'm gonna recognize one thing. It is true that the general deterioration in health, social and economic matters is due to a universal pandemic, but there is a differential fact, and that differential fact cannot affect another responsible person, cannot dilute responsibility in others, because you are government, you have political responsibility. You play permanently to the collegiate dilution, to the dilution with your government partners. Then he'll talk about the elbow. Lately the economic theory has become the theory of hoisting the elbow or we're going to hoist the shoulder. Then we'll talk about what it's like to tie your shoulder in the second part of my speech. Are you aware that the burden of public expenditure on gross domestic product in Spain now exceeds 51%? It's the Arcadia of any communist model. Mr Guijarro I think he would enjoy it and Mr Pisarello, who is not here right now, would also enjoy it. By the way, yesterday quoting neoliberal thinkers. How much we're changing! But it's true, that's the reality. You know that right now six million people remain thanks to the public budget; 3 800 000 unemployed; one million, almost 80 000 more, right now in the position of ERTE, plus all the benefits linked to the cessation of activity of the self-employed, plus the additional benefits, 6 million. Is that the real model? When you go to the Eurogroup, when you meet your colleagues, do you look at the ranking? I, when I was a student, when I was at work, when I was studying in college, looked at whether I was up or down in my grades. What are Spain's notes? You know that of the twenty-seven countries of the European Union Spain is behind those twenty-seven growing countries. Tell it to the Finnish minister, tell it to Vanhanen, who holds the first position. Look at how you'll see yourself, who's in position twenty-seven. Or, for example, we are in the last place in job creation; rather, we are in the first place in job destruction. Talk to your colleague Alexander De Croo, who is the Belgian minister, and explain to him, who is leading, in principle, in the non-destruction of employment, why in Spain we are destroying employment, why in Spain GDP is falling by 22.1%, why we are destroying employment at a rate of 7.5% right now, while the EU average is 2.7%. With regard to the public budget, in this usual dystopia to which the spokesman of the Government and the Minister of Finance have already accustomed us, he said that this budget is going to be presented faster than those presented by Montoro, and it has been two years and seven months without presenting a budget. What a strange concept of time! He lives in a weird loop. By the way, since all members of the Socialist Party are here, do not forget that the elections were in 2011 and that the People's Party began to rule in late 2011 and early 2012. What happened in 2009? What happened in 2010? What happened in 2011? Do you know that the word plan of 'adjustment' was invented by you? Do you know that legally the nominal concept of 'adjustment' is a concept of the Socialist Party? But what black hole has the political, administrative, budgetary and economic management of those years got into? Who was the promoter of constitutional reform? As it turns out today, we have learned that the next budget is doing so with great care, that is, that we would have presented some budget three years late and that we are also responsible for all the budgetary adjustments. I insist, that word was coined by you, legally, nominally and economically. In view of this situation, let us look at the imbalances that are emerging right now. Firstly, from the point of view of public expenditure, we already have an increase of around EUR 68 billion, 22% more than last year. As far as tax revenues are concerned, it is surprising, because you expected - of course, what is the hope and the placebo effect - that there would be only a 5.5% reduction in tax revenues. Right now corporate tax is already falling by 15%, VAT is falling by 16% and personal income tax is falling by 29.8%. Its 5.5% is a wonderful calculation, formulated whether by its ministry or by the Ministry of Finance. And what are we going to say about the budgetary imbalance, Madam Vice-President, if we come up with a 6.6 to 31 July? How are we going to end up, around 13th, around 14th? Are we gonna do the forecast? Today, at last, we have learned that the budgets are going to be presented and that next week or the next week comes the ceiling of expenditure and the path of budgetary stability. Here we will know the macroeconomic forecasts, there we will know how you are able to bridge your differences with that communist patulea that is part of the government with the peripheral indigenist approaches, which are obviously a few, and which will shape the budgetary conglomerate of this country. You will, of course, have to give that explanation to see exactly what the economic indicators are. We're waiting. It's going to match VOX's motion of censure. By the way, VOX's first election act, as far as I can see. They come here to introduce their candidate to the Generalitat of Catalonia; let's see, here we all play. What I do ask all political parties is for us to play a decent game with parliamentary institutions. I tell you one more thing and it's over, because here we come to answer questions. Madam Vice-President, do you think that with the approved prescriptions and the current decree-laws we are able to face next fall? Do you think we need to adapt, minimize, reduce or modify some of the structural expenditure items in our budget? Should the expenditure structure of public employees be relaxed? Should we touch the pension structure? What are they going to do with discretionary spending on subsidies and public aid, when some spokesman here yesterday expressly acknowledged that there was a margin of EUR 33 billion - said by the AIReF - in order to reduce public spending? Are you going to make that effort? I simply ask you for answers, not for me, for 47 million Spaniards from Granollers, Getxo, Jaca or Seville. I think they're demanding it, I think they're demanding it, and we can't wait another minute. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u148	Thank you, Mr. Garcés. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the third Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u149	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Your Honor, allow me to make some initial considerations about the economic situation in our country because I believe that this is going to be much more interesting for all Spanish citizens than attending to your speech full of personal attacks - certainly against all your colleagues in this Congress - and unfounded statements. Firstly, it is important to point out that the environment in which we are moving is highly uncertain. In fact, over the past few weeks we are seeing continuous revisions and updates of the forecasts of the various national and international bodies, some rising, some down. In fact, today we know the upward revision of the estimate of the National Institute of Statistics for the second quarter of this year. This only reflects that the context is very complex and that, as I have been saying since the pandemic broke out, from the first day in March, the forecasts must be taken with great caution. Therefore, it is important to deal rigorously with any analysis of the data and forecasts that are being published. The second element that is important to remember is that the evolution of our economy is not being symmetrical. This crisis is characterized by a very different impact on the various productive activities in the different territories. It is enough to observe how a sector such as tourism - which is undoubtedly one of the most affected - has evolved in a very different way in the Canary Islands or the Balearic Islands than in other regions of our country, such as, for example, the northern peninsula. In other words, we cannot simplify diagnoses or pretend that a single data, taken in isolation and, even less, decontextualized, reflects reality. Even less credible and relevant are loose data to articulate an absolutely inconsistent narrative. Your Honor, this does not help to find the solutions at this time. And the third initial consideration I want to make is that, even with the different revisions being made, the forecasts of the different bodies do not differ so much between themselves. For example, with regard to the evolution of the gross domestic product, forecasts point to a fall of around 11% by 2020 and an increase of over 7% by next year. And these forecasts do not include the effects of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan and the consequent mobilization of public and private resources to boost investment, to boost our economy, in particular through the activation of the new European funds that will arrive, in principle, next year. After these initial considerations, I go into the background of the matter which makes it clear to us that our economy is going through different periods, for two well-differentiated periods. The second quarter of 2020 has been extremely harsh in economic terms, and this is indisputable. During the three months that lasted the state of alarm - and particularly in the first weeks of April - we had to apply the toughest measures of limitation of the mobility and hibernation of our economy and for that period correspond many of the data that we still know, as the quarterly national accounts itself that this morning published the National Institute of Statistics and which reaffirms what has already progressed in the last month of July, that the economy fell very intensely between March and May, although today the revision, as I said, yields a rate lower than initially predicted, a drop of 17.8% between the quarterly and the 18.5% estimated in its first advance. However, since the end of the hibernation period, in May there was a turning point and the economy began to go back along a pattern that continues to be maintained today. The high-frequency indicators - which we have been familiar with during the months of July and August and the first weeks of September - corroborate this evolution. I am talking about credit card spending, which grew by 10% every year in August, a point more than in July, despite the collapse of spending on foreign cards, of course. Electricity consumption in August also reflects the progressive closure of the gap over the previous year. Retail sales experienced a monthly increase in July with a greater dynamism of small trade; in interannual terms, we see a slowing down of the fall and in some autonomous communities even an increase in interannual rate - that differentiated evolution to which I referred -. Car sales have also slowed their fall. The recovery of foreign trade in goods is also aimed at reviving our main markets. In July we saw that exports recovered their pulse, with a special protagonist of car exports to France and Germany. The development of the labour market, to which you refer, also supports this incipient recovery, with an average increase in social security contributions of some 500 000 people over membership in April, and this momentum continues to be maintained in what we have been doing in September. Memberships are increasing both in the general regime and for the special regime of self-employed workers, whose affiliation data is already similar to that which existed before the state of alarm was declared. In fact, this development is also reflected in the number of self-employed persons who have applied for the extraordinary benefit - to which the Minister of Finance referred in the previous inquiry - because the persons who are applying for this benefit are in the range of 150 000, compared to the one and a half million who applied for it at the height of the spring. The evolution is similar with regard to the temporary employment regulation dossiers, which also reflect how more than 80% of the workers protected by this instrument -3.5 million people who were covered during the peak period of the pandemic - are already back in their jobs, that is to say, there are about 739 000 people covered by this instrument. By the way, from your speech I take it that you do not like this instrument, which I am surprised at, given the unanimous positive assessment of the role that the ERTEs with this extraordinary protection by the public sector are having, and I am also surprised at the constant calls of the business world for its extension. This gradual recovery of activity is driven by the favourable financing conditions that the Kingdom of Spain and all Spanish companies are having in the financial markets, largely thanks to the new Community financing instruments, the decisive action of the European Central Bank, of course. These indicators point us to this incipient recovery, to the reactivation of activity from the end of the hibernation period. Now, Your Honor, any perspective on the future must be taken with the utmost caution. It is clear that we must continue to work, that we must flee from self-congratulation, that we must first effectively tackle the rebounds, which are inevitable, but which must be curtailed if we are to continue on this path of recovery; that we must continue to adapt and extend the measures of economic and social support in order to minimize the structural impact and therefore have a basis to be able to continue the recovery, to avoid damage that slows this recovery and to put everything on our side in order to have a dynamic economic growth from 2021 onwards. We have to keep working as we are, 24 hours a day. But, Your Honor, we cannot fall into the simplification of taking a data out of context and even less of making a description absolutely partial and poorly adjusted to the reality of the information we have available. It is clear that there are high-frequency indicators showing a certain slowdown in this recovery in September, in particular with regard to exports of services, especially those related to tourism, which, of course, continue to show very significant falls. It is clear that there are areas of activity, such as some segments of hospitality and catering, transport, tourism - there are areas of our country, such as the archipelagos, which depend heavily on international tourism - that are experiencing a later and slower recovery, as discussed in detail in the previous inquiry. By the way, I do not know exactly what the representative of the Canary Islands was referring to when - in my opinion - he made an insult - I am not going to repeat it - with regard to some colleagues in Congress. It is clear that this uneven development has an impact on the evolution of the economy as a whole, but we cannot lose sight of the fact that an essential condition for maintaining the path of recovery is to control these rebounds, to advance the development of a vaccine and to continue working together to try to implement the economic stimulus measures necessary to continue this growth. Our forecast is that economic growth in the third quarter of the year will clearly exceed 10% of GDP. This is not our forecast; it is the estimate shared by all agencies. The Banco de España last week updated its forecasts and talks about between 13 and 16.6 % growth for this third quarter. The Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, on 9 September, estimated growth in this period at 14,4 %. Funcas also these days has estimated an increase of 11.5% for the third trimester. That is to say, all analyses agree that there is already progress in a recovery, which will be supported and strengthened once we can deploy the different investments and reforms envisaged in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which will have the capacity to boost our potential long-term growth above 2% of GDP. It's a very important growth. [[The lady]] We are talking about an estimate of GDP growth already in the short term - in 2021 and 2022 - of between 2 and 3 percentage points; that is, a very important impact on our capacity for growth and job creation already since next year and funds and a recovery plan that obviously require us to have as soon as possible a State General Budget for 2021 that responds to our current economic situation, that responds to our spending needs and our priorities. Frankly, the absolute priority must be to boost economic recovery, growth and job creation, and I think that we should all work towards that goal. I conclude now, Your Honor. I made three preliminary considerations and let me point out to you the three things that I consider essential if we are to continue on this path of recovery. Firstly, rigour in analysing the information we have available, partial, variable, but which must be taken with rigour in all its components and in all its dimensions. Secondly, the seriousness and responsibility of taking the necessary measures to control the rebounds, because that is what our country's economic development depends to a large extent. And, thirdly, loyalty so that we can all work together: the government, the various public administrations, the social partners - who, by the way, are showing great maturity, responsibility and loyalty -, the workers, the companies, the society as a whole, so that we can put ourselves among all to launch this Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience that is so necessary for our country. The road ahead is still long, it is hard, it is uncertain, but the Government is working rigorously, seriously and loyally towards Spanish society in order not only to bring this situation back to life as soon as possible, but also to modernise our productive fabric and thus build sustainable, just and inclusive growth for our children. In that quest we continue to look forward to finding them, and I wish to be able to deal with the issues to which you have referred with civilization and responsibility, which will be important in defining those General State Budgets which are so necessary, so urgent for our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u150	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u151	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, rigour, responsibility and loyalty: three great words, three great concepts that in the mouth of your Government are really discredited. Look, loyalty, do you know what it means to you? That we join your economic program, that's loyalty. When you tell us to work side by side, the truth is that what you tell us is that we join your project, this is a contract of economic accession. Do you think that we are actually going to join a project that has condemned Spain to the worst destruction of national wealth and the worst destruction of employment in the whole of the European Union? That's loyalty, I'd almost ask them to act with disloyalty! I say this primarily for helping the Spanish people. But can you really invoke the Spaniards here with what they are suffering from, being the worst country in the whole European Union? You have come here right now and looked like the woman - in this case the woman, could have been the man - of time, has counted the isobaras: here it is sun, here there is going to be an anti-cyclone, here it is going to rain... Can you really tell me what is going to happen in the coming months considering that the forecasts of euro area indicators put us in the queue position? Then the theory of responsibility. It turns out that political criticism is now disqualification, Madam Vice-President. When you assumed the Vice-Presidentship of the Government, you assumed a very personal responsibility. Of course we would all have liked another economic situation, another economic environment, an environment of growth where everything was fine, where Mrs Montero did not have to make budgets for five years - we could follow as long as we wanted -, that there would be growth and that, as a result of the traction effect of the previous economic situation, we were growing steadily; but that is not the case, it was up to her to live the worst economic situation in this country in the last hundred years, even worse than in the Civil War because the imbalances are worse right now, they are still more asymmetric. The responsibility is yours, of course you are the coordinator of the entire economic area of this Government. I ask you for loyalty: loyalty with solutions, loyalty with your partners, loyalty with Spain, loyalty with the rest of political formations. I insist, loyalty is not unity of opinion because then there would be no politics, they are condemning once again that politics is a sort of appeasement or co-optation of ideas of course at the service of those who command, and we will not consider that. And you speak to me of rigour when from the European Union and the AIReF itself they came to say that all their forecasts of the update of the stability programme were wrong. You said that the weight of income or gross domestic product was going to be about 41,6 % when it really stayed at 40 %. Eye, and a tenth with six is not a smaller amount, as you well know, when doing budget analysis. It calls for responsibility, the responsibility is for us from the opposition to have an economic model and we are systematically presenting it to them; the responsibility is to create an agency to be able to manage the resilience funds correctly, effectively and temporarily. They are already preparing Pedro Sánchez's new book: from resistance manual to resilience manual. With all the funds you're going to get, you're going to see if it can be sustained. But does it really bother you to create an independent, cross-cutting, inter-agency agency, where you can participate in those you also invoke in your speech: entrepreneurs, workers? Can we do that? By the way, there's a lot of runrun in the ministries about the chaos that's happening right now, who's organizing this? Are we really going to have the capacity to implement a planning model that allows for the attachment of all projects from all public administrations? Are we going to have the ability to run it on time? Are we going to have the capacity - for once, but say so - to be able to take on all legal commitments before 2023? Are we gonna do it? What have you done in the summer? [[A Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: No]] [[A Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: No]] Surfing like Simon. What have you done in the summer? Have they started to prepare it? You're going to have four months. With the outstanding works of ADIF you will mobilize 18 billion. How are they going to get 140 billion? Did they start doing it? Have you been outsourced, Madam Vice President? Are you guys doing it? Are they hiring him? Who'd they hire? Do you have the ability to determine what is the amount and what is the right strategy for the next few days? That's the reality. And look, of course, when you tell us not to demagogy or make personal attacks, are macroeconomic tables and indicators personal attacks? The paintings that put us at the tail of Europe are personal attacks? Does Carabanchel's unemployed have a personal attack? Does Martorell's autonomous have a personal attack? Those are being attacked, Madam Vice President, not you or me, to them. You'll say this is demagogy. Look, I'm going to tell you one thing, you're asking us to work side by side in the new economic theory. It is the great conventional expression that is right now illustrating the entire political debate on all television channels and in all debates. What a great expression! Of great intellectual wealth! Elbow to elbow! Look, you have the country manga per shoulder. And you know why they have him shoulder to shoulder? On the one hand, because they are tied by the legs to communist formations, because they are tied by their dolls with the Basque independence forces and because they are, on the other hand, seeing how they can make a budget trying to co-honest and reconcile interests that are absolutely opposed. Europe, Madam Vice-President, does not sympathise with many of those claims, some absolutely unconstitutional, of some of its partners. In any case, Madam Vice President, you have five minutes now. Tell us - and I will finish - what the government is going to do in view of the forecasts. Are you going to keep coming here just to tell us the time, if there's going to be sun or if there's going to be rain? Are they going to tell us or aren't they going to tell us? Tell public employees if they are going to freeze or not or if they are going to reduce public salaries. Tell me what you're gonna do with the taxes. Tell us if 'irrejonism' is the new doctrine in tax policy of this country which, on the other hand, has done what it has done is to copy the program of Unidad Podemos. It must be that disunited could not and now it has to be directly copying the United Nations Podemos program. But say it, Vice President, you have five minutes and this is the opportunity to respond. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u152	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] On behalf of the Government and to conclude the debate, I have the floor of the third Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u153	Thank you very much, President. The truth is that there are times when I do not know what reality I live in because you speak as if we were not facing an absolutely unprecedented situation, as if we were not for months devoting all our energy to tackling this pandemic, as an absolutely essential element for the proper functioning of our economy and acting with extraordinary responsibility and loyalty to those who are at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic in the health field. In fact, from the very beginning we have provided financial resources to support not only the Ministry of Health; 300 million for the municipalities to meet social needs, 300 million for the autonomous communities to strengthen the care network for dependent people, 16 billion - it has been said here this morning - for the autonomous communities to respond in the field of health and education, not to mention logistical support through the tracing of the representatives of the Armed Forces, the APP Radar COVID that we have made available to the autonomous communities. In other words, the Government's action has been absolutely consistent, determined and determined since the first day the pandemic attacked us in health, economic and social terms. I want to touch on this word because I believe that many times we are not aware of the importance of these three elements and of moving in parallel. That is to say, the action of the Government - by the way, which has been endorsed by this Parliament through all the royal decrees laws of the various packages that we have been adopting - has been aligned with that of the rest of the countries, determined, determined and coherent to deal with this absolutely unprecedented pandemic. The second comment is that, among all these words, it is essential not to lose sight of the important, and you have indeed referred to this, to the importance of European funds as a fundamental factor of confidence and engine of growth. All analyses point to GDP growth that could be between 2 and 3 percentage points as early as 2021, and for that it is clear that we need general state budgets aligned with these investments in order to articulate the implementation of the funds. It is not a contract of accession, it is a negotiation that we must set in motion among all of us in order to have as soon as possible those General Budgets of the State that our country needs. In the coming weeks you will face up to making decisions and positioning yourself when we come here with the various proposals, and you will have to make it clear whether you are in the line of supporting economic growth and helping our country recover. It is essential - and you have said - to speed up the processes. I am also confident that they will support the policy proposals that we will bring to this House, if necessary, to ensure that all procedures are speeded up and that investments resulting from the use of these new Community funds are boosted. Before concluding with my last comment, although I do not want to confront it because I do not like to go into confrontation and even less into personal matters, the truth is that after reflecting on it in the seat I will not let a representative of the People's Party pass that he allows himself to speak lightly and shamelessly about who is the worst minister of economics in the history of Spain. [[Applauds]] I should like to thank you for not having had the time to talk about the last 80 years, but I am still not going to let it pass; I think you deserve a comment on this, you need a little more caution and prudence in allowing yourself to qualify the economic ministers or any minister in this country. Finally, it is clear that the situation is very complex, it is an unmatched situation - I said earlier - in our recent history. I have pointed out how important it is to act with rigour, seriousness and dialogue, a dialogue that we have initiated in the Government from the very beginning, starting with the social actors, who are responding with great maturity and responsibility, helping us to respond to the emergencies of the day-to-day and, at the same time, raising our eyes and thinking about the future. The last example of this responsible behaviour is the agreement reached with the social partners to regulate telework, a regulation that was adopted yesterday by a royal decree-law in the Council of Ministers for Remote Work establishing an important pillar to adapt our work framework to the reality of the twenty-first century. I believe that this rigour, this responsibility, this trust is what citizens expect of us because they want us to do everything we can to respond and solve their problems and build a better future. I ask you, Your Honor, please, that we focus on this, that we put our energies on this goal, which is what the Spanish citizens want, and that we work, yes, hand-in-hand, shoulder-to-shoulder, to try to solve the situations of day-to-day, to try to lift our eyes, to build that better future and to leave as soon as possible this extraordinary situation in which we have been immersed since March. With this positive thought I leave you. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u154	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u155	We then proceeded to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry, which was not completed at yesterday's sitting. Motion following urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Government to enable the State Security Forces and Corpses to protect the Spaniards from the illegal assault and occupation of their property. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Sánchez del Real has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u156	Thank you, Madam President. I haven't started talking and I'm running out of time. I thank him for his parliamentary help. He was coming down from the henhouse and he was going through the neighbourhoods well of this Parliament - since they have made sure that the third political force of this country is kidnapped in the henhouse - and he was going through Pedralbes, he was going through Neguri and I have arrived here, in the vacuum Moncloa-Aravaca, and I have come to think that I am going to say something very firmly, and that is that in Spain there is no problem with okupation. There is no such thing; there is no such thing, of course, if you are Peter and go out through the gardens of Moncloa the way of the Falcon; there is no such thing if you are Paul in your many properties, who I am glad to have, whether it be the fruit of his work, his effort or his inheritance; there is no such thing if you are the other Paul, Echenique, whom I do not see here either; you have to see what about absences when we talk about things that concern you as much as it is ocupation; you have to see what concerns you. [[Applauds]] Nor is there a problem with ocupation for your friends journalists because we see it live, when they have a problem with ocupation, immediately there is a suspicious order to transmit live that eviction and avoid that ocupation in real time. There is no problem with okupation if you are progressing or the current government. But what if you're a little Spanish on foot! If you're a normal Spanish, you're an infantryman! There we have a problem in the houses, in the floors, in the blocks, in the neighborhoods; not in the urbanizations, which also there is, but, above all, in the neighborhoods, in the industrial polygons; that is where we have the problem. Yes, we have it; we have it because when we introduce the key to open that floor, whether it's the main one or the one that has been inherited together in a family after so much effort, we all think with fear about what we're going to find ourselves inside. You do not raise every day the fence of a field, an industrial polygon, a warehouse or a commercial place and look to see, with fear, because you are alone facing what may be inside, which is probably someone you support. And don't forget, whether raided or usurped, those properties are the property of humble Spain, the savings of our grandparents and our parents. So, when they steal that, they steal thousands of hours of hard work from real workers. [[Applauds]] And I say to you - more philosophically - that property is sacred because it is the basis of freedom. We can enter into philosophical debates; you are more of Juan Jacobo Rousseau; probably us of Locke or other authors, but I tell you that those who assault a property, assault our freedom, the deepest of democracy, because it is the property that protects us freedom and protects us from those who want to impose real dictatorships such as, for example, that of the proletariat, which you still defend. [[Applauds]] Because usurpation is a crime, because you - as I said - pretend that this is - according to Rousseau - all shared, that this is a tribe where everything is delivered together and, above all, in the end, we already know how the tribes end: the alpha male ends up taking everything, the property, the bed; well, you know how exactly that works. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] I want to stop at this point because the proposer, my colleague, Ignacio Garriga, has not been able to carry out this intervention and I want to convey to him the condolences - I think many of us - for the death of his mother. I send you our prayers and our deepest condolences. [[Applauds]] Look, a house is the investment of thousands of hours of family effort. So, when you defend those who okupan, those who raid property, you are stealing millions and millions and millions of hours from the humblest in Spain, from those who have worked to have that property. That's what you're protecting, latrociny, stealing from the humble. [[Applauds]] So, what do we propose? Quite simply, we propose less protection for criminals and more protection for those who act, who are the Police and the Civil Guard, who do not leave us. These are two very concrete things, in this motion we propose, first of all, that usurpation may be subjected to an immediate, immediate police eviction within the first 24 hours, unless possible. That's a simple amendment to the Criminal Prosecution Act. On the other hand, we propose that for those who usurp a property, this is a crime punishable by imprisonment, that is not free, that is not to pay a small fee of fine - if paid - the okupar or usurp the home of another. So, of course, this doesn't mean that let's not say we have to tackle social problems. Look, if it's one of your MENA that's done the ocupation, what needs to be done is very easy, what you do with our kids when they close the schools, they give themselves to their parents. If you are an illegal immigrant, what needs to be done is what you do at the borders now - now to protect Spain from the virus - you are returned to your country, as you would with any Spanish who is in an irregular situation elsewhere. But if you are a Spaniard or a legal immigrant, if that person is busy having to take possession of someone else's property, what happens is that you have failed with your ideologies and with dedicating social money to what is not important. So less to fight against nonsense and more to fight for the Spaniards and the legal residents in Spain so that they will never be caught up in okupar. [[Applauds]] You must protect the property of the Spaniards and protect our agents. Mr. Marlaska, the ghost that's left of him, has tried to blow and sip these days and, of course, chokes. Smoke, smoke and smoke is what Mr Marlaska is giving in response to what the associations, Jupol and the Unified Association of Civil Guards are telling him. Smoke! And what we are proposing is a very simple legal change to protect property and protect our agents by protecting our property, the property of the humble and the property of the workers. The Spaniards have won that property and have won the right not to defend themselves alone in that property, but to be defended by this State. That is what we propose. And to the protectors of the Okupas from their sacred mansions, where they laugh and make 'intervistitas' on paper cuché talking about the escorts, we tell them to stop offending those who protect their houses - yes, their houses and their properties, and not those of the rest of the Spaniards - by giving condolences to the murderers and the accomplices of the murderers and by agreeing governments with them, who are still here. [[Applauds]] And I'm done. Therefore, in the face of the totalitarianism of those who defend the criminals, two things: property and freedom because property is the best basis for the freedom of the Spaniards. And, of course, as we've been saying, the okupa kick in twenty-four hours. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u157	As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. The initiative defended by Mr Sánchez del Real is relevant in promoting measures in the face of the worrying increase in the crimes against private property caused by the so-called "okupas", which have added to the illegal palm of usurping properties to take advantage of the slowness of the courts of justice and prolong their assault on property, which, over time, often end up being torn apart for despair and great disbursement of those who are victims of organized mafia in different parts of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the proposers because, following their inquiry to the Government at last Wednesday's plenary session, it seems that in the Ministry of the Interior they have woken up from sleep and have taken letters in the matter, since the following day they published a protocol clarifying that, in the face of home invasions and home thefts, both the National Police and the Civil Guard will be able to proceed to the immediate eviction without the need to request judicial action in the event of a flagrant crime. However, in view of the unquestionable increase in Okupa activity reflected in official statistics, I fully share the need to strengthen legal certainty and that the Spanish people have up-to-date legislation to effectively address the solution to this problem, which affects urban and rural areas and which in a few cases ends up dilated in time for the despair of the injured. Hence, my vote in favour of both the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act and the updating of the Criminal Code to which this motion calls. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u159	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u160	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on Monday the Cantabria Parliament approved a proposal for a PRC law similar to this motion, although something different because you intend to amend the Criminal Prosecution Act and we understand that it is enough to amend the Civil Prosecution Act. You abstained and we will do the same today. On Monday our deputy and mayor of Polanco, Rosa Díaz, rigorously defended the proposal of the PRC collecting the majority feeling of the population. She knows the problem very well, but she's not a single case in Cantabria. An urbanization of its municipality of forty-three houses has twenty-five illegally occupied for a long time. It is true that she is a broken promoter, but the consequence is that eighteen neighbours, legitimate, desperate owners, have to endure crime, dirt and threats and, in order to end it, pay the essential expenses of the entire urbanization community and the mayor is powerless to solve the problem. And we are not talking about cases in general of the occupation of first or second homes of private individuals or of evictions for non-payment, but of crimes also suffered by neighbouring neighbours. This case study is not only not reduced, it is going to go further and this trend needs to be curbed. We must recognise the problem, honourable Members, which they do not recognise, but, in addition to recognizing it, we must act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u161	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u162	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Okupar is illegal and this, which seems like Perogrullo, should be reiterated in this House, because there are groups on the left and the far left who directly consider that okupar is a right and no, no one in this country has the right to break through by the force of a kick and to make this their jurisdiction. In this Parliament we already have to stand up to the octopus, because what people are entitled to is to live without fear. Many people in our country live with fear; they live with fear when they come home in case someone has kicked and decided to live there; they live with fear when they go to their second residence in summer and they do not know if they are going to enter their home and they will find it destroyed or when they return to their ships or to their warehouses and see that they have installed some there directly their residence. And in Spain we have a law that protects the offender much more than the victims. Many victims, in addition to having to wait months and months until they manage to recover their property, have to invest a lot of resources in defending themselves legally and paying for lawyers. That's why this Congress has to plant once and for all face to otupation, but it doesn't plant face to otupation by making up or clarifying some protocols, no. That's a way some people have to do nothing. As it is planted in front of the otupation it is hardening the law and this Congress has to get to work already because people are fed up and what we ask of those who have the capacity to legislate is legal certainty. It's the least we owe them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u164	Good morning. I will try to enter into the substantive debate of this initiative and not so much in the, in my opinion, body of motion that is being brought here today. Two questions would have to be answered in order to get into the substantive debate. The first is: Is there a real risk that a citizen of the Spanish State will be invaded and dispossessed of his or her usual home or even of the holiday? That would be the first question. The second is: Is there an uncontrolled and uncontrolled problem, as we want to believe in hours and hours of television advertising? That would be the second question. To answer these two questions or to respond to the sophasia of the far right, what needs to be done is to look at the law and see the data. If we look at the law, as far as the first question is concerned, whether there is a risk that someone will be dispossessed or invaded by their home, even vacation, what we see is that they will not. That's not octopus, it's residential break-in. It is set out in the Penal Code and entails an immediate and urgent eviction by the State Security Forces and Bodies. Don't signal me, wait till I'm done talking. [[Addressing Mr. Sánchez del Real]] As I'm telling you, the house break-in... You keep making signs; I'll keep talking. The house break-in is perfectly typified and that's not ocupation; in any case, what you call ocupation is the usurpation of empty homes or properties for a long time, and that's what the law says, I don't say. The dwelling is, in turn, the first home, the one where the person or the family resides, but also the second, the vacation home, therefore, there is also no risk that your vacation home can be octopated for a long time, a winding period, for the recovery of the housing, because I will also tell you that it is dwelling. But, in any case, for that which is not inhabited, for that which would enter into the crime of usurpation, there is express eviction, and you also know that there is express eviction, and it was also appealed and debated in this House, but it does not matter to you, because its purpose is not to enter into the reality of the debate between trespassing and usurpation but the generation of a scarecrow, of a ghost, which serves to feed its most intimate purposes and I would say more perverse. In any case, I was telling you that to talk about this, too, you have to have data. You have not exhibited a single data here because the data probably does not accompany you. No, not one has exhibited. But, for example, we can say what the Ministry of the Interior says in the first half, from January to June, comparing 2019 with 2020: in 2019, 7000 ocupations of those that were pointed out; in 2020, 7450. A case explosion, a first-rate emergency? Well, no, the data don't say that. But we can go beyond that. The public and official data also say that the complaints decrease in ten communities and increase by five: they increase in Galicia, Murcia, Canary Islands, Valencian Community and Catalonia and decreased in Asturias, Castile-La Mancha, Basque Country, Andalusia, Madrid, Aragón, Castile and León, Balearic Islands, Extremadura, Cantabria and Navarre even by 42%. Where is that remarkable increase, that social alarm that some were talking about? On the other hand, they said more. You also said that these octopus have traits and biases I would almost say ethnic, and you have pointed out it with what to do with children or how to do with children and immigrants. Let us see the nationality of the people who are okupa, according to public sources as well: 73% have a Spanish passport or nationality; 2% are citizens of the European Union; with residence or work permit, 19%. The papers don't give you reason here either. Why then are they feeding this alarm? For something very simple, so that those who sell alarms sell more to the cry of 'if you don't have alarms, don't sleep', perhaps, but, above all and fundamentally, to defend the big interests, the economic elites, because let's see who owns the octopus houses. Look here: 70% are owned by banks; 10% by large owners, with more than 50 homes; 2 % by real estate and investment funds. [[shows a document]] That is to say, 82% of these homes belong to major economic interests, and that is what moves their initiative even if they cover it with other things. The Cerdà Institute tells them that 0.34% of the total number of housing units are vacant and that is equivalent to 87,000 families on vacant floors. And they don't care about that? Are they not concerned that there are tens of thousands of people who have to look for housing because the State, even if its Constitution says so, does not offer it to them? What is the purpose of article 47 of the Spanish Constitution, which enshrines the right to decent housing? What is the purpose of article 128, which states that all the wealth of the country in its various forms and whatever its ownership is subordinated to the general interest? You're welcome, it's wet paper, and it's good for you that it's wet paper because you have to keep defending the interests. The fundamental debate here is that you want to criminalize the okupation and we and we are going to tell you clearly: If occupying a home when you are in a vulnerable situation is a crime, we defend the okupation; if occupying a property that has been vacant for a long time to provide cultural services and social equipment to a whole neighborhood because the institutions do not give it to it is okupation, we defend the okupation, the same thing that we believe the Euskal Jai, that Errekaleor, that Sastraka and that other places are examples of coexistence and of building a more harmonious and more supportive society. I conclude with a reflection now that it is nine years after the eviction of a self-management experience such as Kukutza's in Bilbao, which said: [[ends his intervention in Basque]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u165	For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u166	Thank you very much, President. The VOX Parliamentary Group is submitting a motion to amend the Criminal Code to ensure that crimes of usurpation are punishable by imprisonment and that they are prosecuted by the prompt trial procedure also with an amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, while the object of the motion itself could be taken into consideration by the Basque Parliamentary Group, we will not do so for the following reasons. Firstly, because there is a proposal for a law registered by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the problem of the illegal occupation of property, which is addressed with a much wider area than the motion. In this it is proposed the amendment of two rules and in the proposed law of eight, including, of course, these two. That is why we believe that it will be at the time of the debate and, if necessary, the handling of this initiative when we can deal with the phenomenon of illegal occupation in this House with the appearances that we consider appropriate and in greater depth than that of urging the Government to make two specific amendments to the law, which also do not address the precautionary evictions of the usurped buildings. Secondly, we cannot forget the content of VOX's interpretation to support his initiative, because it seems that his motivation is more the gross disqualification of the Government and of the whole of this House than to seek his support in the face of a serious problem. So, no matter how harsh the political criticism, we cannot talk about the criminal management of the government or accusing it of putting the interests of the criminals ahead, nor that it is a necessary collaborator of the avalanches of okupations, nor that it is an ally of the mafias, nor that the whole of the parties of this House are defenders and accomplices of the illegal occupation, because, in addition to being a nonsense, it forgets the reform of the Criminal Prosecution Act that in 2015 we carried out in order to interdictally recover the possession of the houses without a declaratory judgment, what the spokesman who has called me the express evictions of homes of natural persons, whether they are inhabited or not, of non-profit entities and of social housing of public entities; reform that was done on the initiative - I also have to say - of the PDECAT, and that the Basque Parliamentary Group supported along with Citizens and the People's Party. Thirdly, the relationship between illegal occupations and immigration claimed by VOX, accusing immigration, and extending it to immigrants, of having turned humble neighbourhoods, and, according to VOX, formerly prosperous, into multicultural terns and multicultural jungles, cannot be accepted either. I have never heard in this House call illegal or legal immigrants manure, garbage or wild animals. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, what would you think if the vast Spanish emigration, whether on paper or not, were qualified for economic reasons, was moved to other countries? Of course, if you depended on FIFA or UEFA, you would be permanently suspended for xenophobic behavior. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we will also not support your initiative because of the deliberate confusion between the occupation of home and non-home, talking about the fear of going on vacation or weekend simply to amplify the alarm when you know that criminal and civil jurisprudence is clear in maturing immediate and precautionary eviction when the break-in of home or home has occurred and also of the second dwellings according to some jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, and although certainly not so forceful in cases of illegal occupation of home without the domicile of the victim and has become the residence of the occupant. Finally - and I am finalizing, Madam President - we will not support the initiative for its spurious invocation of law and order at the same time as it comes up to this rostrum to say what is said and what is said, at the same time as it calls for unilateral self-defence in the margins of law and precisely of public order. Nor will we support it by also spuriously appealing to concord in the face of hatred while performing interventions full of absurd and foolish things, which the truth does not know if they are a strategy or goes in its temperament. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u168	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today, we are dealing with the issue of okupation, which is a really serious problem, a legal problem that involves expropriation, the theft of the legitimate possession of a real estate, but also a social problem that generates enormous problems of coexistence in the communities of owners when they are used precisely these floors for the purpose of committing crimes. However, we find that part of this Chamber refuses to see the problem and, of course, refuses to find any solution because they say that there is no problem. We have heard Bildu a while ago precisely in this regard, but I am much more concerned that there are political leaders, such as Mr Echenique of Podemos, of a party of the government, which ironies on this issue, publishes a tweet and says that the fake accusations against Podemos or the pandemic of opupations is the same as finding life in Venus. It is ironizing, it is laughing at a problem that is bittering many Spanish families, and if it is allowed to joke in this way it will be for one of the two reasons or for the two reasons, that is, first, because they have never forgotten the house and, second, because populism moves very comfortably in disobedience to the law and in chaos. Well, look, you guys, you're both busting out and protecting or trying to protect vulnerable people, I'd like to talk to you about Pilar. Pilar is a 62-year-old nurse, of those heroines we applauded at 8:00 p.m., who working at Reus's health center saw her Vic's house octopus. You have to pay the bill for the light for more than 200 euros a month; you see that we are not talking about the rich, we are talking precisely about the people you claim to be defending. But it turns out that the okupa, who cannot cut off the light because he would commit a crime, tells him: go to a lawyer, that while the procedure lasts I will stay at your house. The okupa laughs at Pilar, Pablo Echenique laughs at Pilar. I want to tell you that the left has always had the most absolute demagogy with this because you look at what two jurists from the Socialist Party government say. Margarita Robles says: we have enough instruments. Well, Pilar doesn't have a home. Juan Carlos Campo, the Minister of Justice, says: if there are not enough instruments, please review the laws. Knowing Mr Campo, with all due respect, he will set up commissions and subcommittees to study the problem deeply while Pilar pays counsel and prosecutor's fees through a lengthy procedure. Yes, Mr.Legarda has recalled, indeed, in 2017 we recorded this measure that Podemos tried to bring him down to the Constitutional Court and failed. But, look, in 2020 it turns out that we have 8,000 ocupations, according to data from the ministry, not citizens; forty ocupations a day, one in four in Catalonia, and Mrs. Colau sympathizes or empathizes with the okupas and not with the victims. How are we not going to be worried about this problem when it is mobs who take advantage of this situation, those who extort the owners, those who even rent the houses that are not theirs! We have to stop it, because, if not, this is only going to increase. They are mafias, organized crime; do not fall into the demagogy of talking about vulnerable groups. [[The lady]] I thank Mr Legarda for mentioning the bill that we have registered, which contains a series of social measures precisely to protect these vulnerable groups without the need to legitimize what is a crime, which is octopus, which is the illegitimate deprivation of the right of possession, which affects both owners, families and neighbours, breaking the right to housing of these people and altering peace and coexistence in the communities of owners. Yes, measures by citizens, civilians to speed up the recovery of possession - quite rightly so - interdictally, effectively, with the legitimization of the communities of owners; penal measures, reforming the Criminal Code and also the procedure for the rapid prosecution of certain crimes; administrative measures, increased powers for the State Security Forces and Bodies and for the municipalities, and social measures, to protect these vulnerable groups. Let's get rid of the ideological blindfold. It is not a problem of right or left, it is a problem of protecting victims, it is a problem of common sense. All the countries in our environment have rapid procedures for recovering possession in these cases; and I quote you: Holland, France, United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, Denmark. Be in favour of supporting that comprehensive anti-corruption plan that citizens will soon bring to this House. Let's close the door to the mobs, protect the victims. Gentlemen of the Government, stop denying the problem, sit with us to work, be responsible, let's all be helpful. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Two days ago, a president of the autonomous community of the People's Party - regrettably, with the presence and consent of the president of the Government - was calling for more police to combat the coronavirus. We don't know if you're trying to get rid of COVID-19. Today VOX demands more police, or more powers for the police, to solve one of the symptoms of a serious social problem such as housing. In the BNG's view, it is always a mistake to pretend to resolve the consequences without addressing the causes or, where appropriate, an intentional way of maintaining class privileges at the expense of not touching the roots of injustice. Because let us not deceive ourselves, be not demagogues, you do not come here to defend the property of the workers but the privileges of the powerful. [[Rumors]] In any case, it is clear that the far right, of either party, only knows how to address social problems in smallpox. You do well every day to say that you prefer injustice to disorder because what we are talking about is precisely this. You, who lie so much about your Constitution, forget - intentionally, of course - article 47, which contains the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing and adds that the public authorities will promote the necessary conditions and establish the relevant rules to give effect to that right; forget article 33.2, makes it clear that the social function of rights such as that of private property will delimit its content, or 128, which you have cited. But you do not worry that there are homeless people even though there are millions of empty homes - more than 300,000 in my country, in Galicia - enough to solve the dramatic situation that many people and families are going through with a proper public policy. Nor are they concerned about the serious problem of evictions, which affects precisely the most vulnerable population. Look, just in the last quarter of 2019 in Galicia more than 2,200 eviction orders. You do not demand adequate public policies to ensure that you truly enjoy that constitutionally recognized principle, no, you do nothing but criminalize poverty and persecute socially vulnerable people. They opt for repression rather than for the rational and just solution of this problem. It has been found that octopus mainly affects empty dwellings, especially of large real estate, banks or vulture funds; in this same rostrum we have just heard incontrovertible data on this matter. We know that it can also affect individuals, and these are situations that need to be resolved and avoided. To that is absolutely sensitive the BNG, but we believe that there are guaranteed mechanisms to do so. Moreover, we are clear that his path is not the right one. So much so that they criticize the Socialist Party and today claim here one of its blackest legacies when they claim to apply to this case the so controversial Corcuera law, the law of kicking at the door. As we have noted on other occasions, you are always more concerned about denying and violating rights than about guaranteeing them. The day you bring here a proposal with measures to ensure the effective implementation of the right to housing will count on our support, but I am very afraid that we will never see that day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u172	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. I'm starting with a previous question. You, Mr Sánchez del Real, at one point you said: this is like a tribe, in which the alpha male ends up carrying everything. I understand that it refers to the chiringuito that Mrs. Aguirre set up in the PP for her boss, Mr. Abascal, who has ended up being this move you have here, called VOX. I understand you mean that. We are here debating a motion sponsored by Securitas Direct or either directly by those para-police and phylofascist groups that are supposedly vacated and are terribly dangerous. [[laughs]] [[rumors]] The truth is that I had never seen a motion sponsored by a company - it did, especially, Duran i Lleida - but welcome be, we'll discuss it. I'll tell you a few facts and three ideas. Data. It is estimated that there are 26 million housing units in Spain, of which 19 million are first residences, of which approximately 3.4 million are empty, 13%. According to data from the Ministry of the Interior, only last year there were 14,621 raids - it would be very good for you to know how to differentiate between an opt-out and a break-in -; therefore, slightly more than 14 000 in 26 million. Do you know how much this is? 0.060 per cent. [[Rumors]] That is the serious problem that you raise here today. So far the data. Three ideas. Do you know what the main and most important unemployment has been this year? The Francos of the Peace of Meirás. [[Applauds]] The best there has been, getting it back from the Galician people. Long live Galicia celiba! [[Mrs Vázquez Blanco utters words that are not perceived]] Thanks to whoever it is. Second idea. Do you know why the media bombardment, especially this whole summer, on the covers and on what television shows talking about the comrades of the Podemos and the ocupations? Do you know why it is? It's very easy, you don't have to be Noam Chomsky. For to cover up the king emeritus, his escape, after his business with Saudi satraps, no more or less. Now I address those who can see us and believe that this is a problem. Those who lied to you with the Prestige, with the Yak-42, with the 11-M, with the crisis, with the preferents, with the bank bailout, with their masters, are also lying to you with this. Faced with what's coming, faced with the biggest economic hammering in eighty years, I can assure you that you're much closer to getting a house than you are getting a house. Here's the reason why the extreme right and the extreme right are so heavy with this. The same ones that tell you today in Madrid that you can't take your children to a park but your boss's, that you can't have coffee but you can't put it on, that you can't go to your mother but you can go every morning on a crowded subway to go to work, they're the same ones who swear to you today and perjure that they're going to okupar the only house you have. It's a lie, it's a fake. It's not that they mismanage, it's that they have class consciousness, of their class. The question is, do you have it from yours, too? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u173	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Mr Sánchez del Real asks for the floor.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Yes, Mr. Sánchez del Real?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u174	Article 71, by reference to allusions. Can you please apply the Rule of Procedure?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u175	What's the exact allusion?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u176	Direct accusations to this Member of having received some kind of remuneration for my intervention. By the way, Mr. Rufián wasn't there when I did, so he talks about hearing.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u177	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez del Real. Can I understand that you've already done the intervention you wanted to do? [[Mr. Sánchez del Real makes negative signs]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u178	First of all, Mr. Rufián, talk about hearing...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u179	But, Mr Sánchez del Real, it is only to make reference to the allusion, not to open a debate, because if I do not give the floor to Mr Rufián too.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u180	For not more than three minutes, I understand, Your Honor, according to Rule 71. Not more than three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u181	Yes, article 71.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u182	Mr. Rufián, you have said, literally, I suppose you will be picked up by the cameras, that I have received some kind of sponsorship - you have said that; I have been listening to you carefully, something you have not done -. Look, Mr Rufián, my only sponsorship is to defend, as I have said and you could have heard, the interest of the Spaniards and the property of the Spaniards, whether one, ten or one hundred. And no, I am not condemned for diverting funds from the Spanish State to break Spain, are those of your party and its partners from other parties. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u183	Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u184	Spain breaks itself, Mr. Member. We don't take one word away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u186	Thank you, President. I am not going to talk about the differences between break-in and usurpation, nor am I going to talk about data, because I think you already know them and because those who have put forward this proposal are not interested. I'm going to go to what I think is the bottom line. A first thought. I would say that capitalism or economic powers always find new business niches and new allies to continue with their extractive and predatory activity of life. What is happening right now with the discourse of occupation, its political and media treatment, must be understood from there. The raca-raca of the last few months on the phenomenon of ocupation is generating an alarmism, but it is an alarmism - I would say - desired and sought. False stories are built, as has been shown, urban legends that try to falsify or format reality in order to obtain, on the one hand, economic benefits, but, on the other hand and not less important, they also seek to create through bubbles and these half-truths a climate of fear and mistrust from which you, gentlemen of VOX, intend, as always, to draw political revenue. Eduardo Galeano said a few years ago that fear is the raw material of the prosperous private security and social control industries. Thus, we find that companies such as Securitas Direct open their web with a clear message: protect yourself from ocupation with Securitas Direct. The result is that they have more sales, a better business. That's where the question is. Is this a coincidence? Well, we don't think so. Therefore, VOX's proposal, VOX's speech, does not go here to defend the interests of ordinary people because if not today we would be talking about the real problem, we would be talking about the housing emergency situation that this country has been experiencing for more than a decade, how it happened, who produced it and what should be the solution. Well, that's what I'm going to talk about in what I have time left. The real scourge of this country is not octopus, it is real estate speculation. For a long time there has been an uproar among the political elites, the big promoters and builders, where, by the way, the Francoist oligarchies and the financial powers have settled, as I say, for decades to maintain and extend the culture of speculation and the ball; a plot that understands housing as a commodity to speculate, as a financial asset and not as a fundamental social right. This led, as we all know, to the 2008 crisis. This prospect led to much suffering, thousands of evictions, perpetual debts and thousands of broken families. But it also follows the problem, because it seems that the look and perspective did not change, but that, as the cow of construction and the sale of housing did not give any more milk, it turned to rent. Reforms were made - reforms approved in this House - such as the express eviction and the regulation of the Socimi to put the red carpet to those investment funds that are buying our flats on sale. In the end, we are in a really serious situation. That is the situation: abusive prices that social majorities cannot afford. Therefore, housing emergency, this is the main problem; lack of housing or lack of access to housing is the main element of social exclusion. An example. This pandemic has been the first time that Spain has complied with the International Covenant on Economic and Social Rights, which prohibits eviction in an international manner without housing alternatives. So let us hope - this is important - that after the pandemic passes we do not step back and continue to fulfil our international responsibilities, because the important thing here and now really is when we are going to ban speculation on a basic good such as housing. Why is there so much fear of controlling the abusive prices of these rents? Who's going to put a stop to the vulture funds? What makes the right to housing, recognized in the Constitution, non-existent in this country in the twenty-first century? I end up with a little hope. This crisis has once again shown that we have a solidarity people, that we trust each other and that when they come wrong we give our hand to move forward together and that this is the best vaccine to stop the implementation of the pathetic and nightly ideology of the extreme right represented by VOX. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u187	Thank you very much, Mrs. Garrido. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u188	Thank you very much, President. Very good afternoon, everyone. Occlusion is a very serious problem in our country, but it is more serious that the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Iglesias, has stated in this plenary that occlusion is not a problem and that a crime is guaranteed as a form of access to housing. And I no longer know whether it is serious, but it is certainly unheard of that it is that hours later, in the same plenary session, another member of the Government, Mr Marlaska, Minister of the Interior, did recognize the problem as serious but without acknowledging that the current legislation is absolutely inadequate. Because, is it enough when there are almost 8,000 ocupations in the first half of the year? Is it enough when the octopus grows at a rate of forty-one occupations per day? And that is what is reported, because there are also cases of occupation that are not reported. No, it is not enough and neither, Mrs Podemos, is an urban legend; it is not an urban legend, let us see the reality. There are many who justify the increase in octopus as a result of the health and economic crisis of the COVID, but that is not the case because in fact the increase in occupation is not something new. It begins to increase not with the governments of the People's Party, as Mr Marlaska said the other day, but the figures increase from 2015, when the municipalities of change, Madrid and Barcelona, led by Mrs Carmena and Mrs Colau, take a big look at the thesis presented here by Mr Iglesias. And it increases further as a result of the motion of censure against the People's Party government, where housing is a currency of exchange for Podemos' votes. And from there, the PSOE begins to be an accomplice to an entire philosophy where the house is okupa as a form of access. [[Applauds]] It is to buy, rent or okupar, that is the philosophy of Podemos, nullifying the constitutional right to property. Look, the right to housing is something that no one discusses, which is in our Constitution, but that can never be at the expense of another fundamental right such as that of private property. Last week, the Attorney-General's Office issued a report with instructions to prosecutors to act with the utmost immediacy in the face of illegal occupation and, on that basis, they also draw from the Interior another instruction with recommendations to the State Security Forces and Bodies on how to act. And what do we think of this? For, ladies and gentlemen, a paripé; a paripé, because in summary they are all clarifications about the last legislative amendment that was made in this Congress to combat the occupation, which has been known as express eviction. By the way, the PSOE did not want to know anything at all and did not vote with those with whom we wanted to solve this problem, possibly because we did not disappoint its future partners. That Civil Prosecution Act, which we did in 2018, solved the problem of eviction; a five-day procedure was established to evict the illegal occupant; and provision was made for the intervention of social services in the case of families vulnerable to the need to guarantee the right to decent housing. But this process had its shortcomings: only natural persons, public housing companies and non-profit entities could take advantage of it, and many fringes remained pending: legal persons and all that cluster of circumstances that accompany the phenomenon of ocupation. From the People's Party we understand that we must continue to work and that we must remain an integral solution. The proposal by VOX, ladies and gentlemen, seems absolutely insufficient because it is not a question of criminalizing, it is a question of defining occupation as a crime in itself; of combating the mafias that make this a business with vulnerable families; of guaranteeing evictions immediately - immediately - between twelve and forty-eight hours; of preventing the okupas from having the same rights as those who buy or rent a home; of prohibiting registration and also of empowering the communities of owners to exercise the complaint. For the People's Party it is not worth loose things, it has to be a single, comprehensive legislative document, a real anti-opupation law that protects victims from the crime of illegal occupation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u189	Thank you very much, Mrs. Zurita. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mrs Bravo Barco has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u190	Madam President, thank you very much; ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Let me tell you, Mr Sánchez del Real, that I have carefully read your two proposals on the crime of usurpation; that is, the illegal occupation of empty dwellings which are neither the first nor second residence of anyone. And I must tell you, without preambles, that you are late with this proposal, you are very late, perhaps you are eighty years late. I'll explain why. I say this because the State Attorney General issued an instruction on 15 September that prosecutors urge judges to take precautionary measures for the immediate eviction of illegal occupants, both for the crime of trespassing and for the crime of usurpation. As you can see, Mr Sánchez del Real, you're late, 80 years late. And I must also tell you that you are late for another reason, and it is because the Ministry of the Interior issued another instruction on the 17th to establish a complete protocol so that such immediate eviction can be carried out without the need for judicial intervention when the crime is flagrant. His proposals are therefore not only unnecessary because the solutions to this problem have already been articulated, but I also doubt very much that they will go beyond a minimum constitutionality examination. In democracy, with an existing Constitution and a fully functioning rule of law, only judges can issue an immediate eviction, unless the crime is flagrant. And what you propose, which is basically to allow police eviction without the intervention of the judge in any case, even if the crime is not flagrant, that, you see, that is to return to the past, to a past that you yearn for, that of eighty years ago. But let me tell you that 80 years ago, what was illegally dealt with was Spanish democracy! [[Applauds]] Look, Mr Sánchez del Real, I will give you another fact: in order to combat this phenomenon we need police and the government of its partners, of the People's Party, has cut the number of police personnel by 12,000 fewer. We, in just two years, have increased it with 10 000 more agents. And on the other hand, Mr Sánchez del Real, I must say that to combat illegal occupations it is necessary first to fight poverty and that all Spaniards have equal opportunities to exercise their right to decent housing. For this reason, the Government of Pedro Sánchez has raised the minimum wage and approved the minimum living income. [[Applauds]] Likewise, to combat this phenomenon I must tell you that it is necessary to build social housing for those who need it most. [[Rumors]] For this reason, the Government is building 20,000 housing units for social rental. This is what the left, gentlemen of VOX, does, building social housing, and the right what he did was selling social housing to vulture funds. [[the rumors continue]] [[Applauds]] I'll give you another piece of information, Mr. Sánchez del Real. In 2011, at the end of Zapatero's term, there were 3849 illegal occupations and when Rajoy's term ended, in 2018, illegal occupations tripled to 12 214, Mr Sánchez del Real. And all because of the policies of the right, of precariousness, of wage cuts and increase of poverty, which caused that wave of evictions of thousands of Spaniards. His partners in the People's Party; his partners, Mr Sánchez del Real. And at that time, Mr. Abascal was occupying a small chiringuito, charging 93,855 euros for running a foundation with no known activity...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u191	Mrs. Bravo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u192	...but, as far as I know, he was never complained that the Rajoy government had tripled the number of illegal occupations in Spain! [[Applauds]] For this reason, Mr Sánchez del Real, I must say that your proposals are unnecessary; in addition to being late, the Government has already put in place measures that will solve this problem, effective measures and with constitutional attachment. That is why we shall vote against your proposal. I'm finishing up, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u193	Brave lady, you just have to finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u194	Mr. Sánchez del Real, I'm telling you with my best spirit of concord. I invite you to read the Spanish Constitution and above all, please read articles 18, 33 and 47. If you do, I am convinced that you too will vote no to your proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Bravo. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that from now until 14 hours the non-legislative proposals and the motions resulting from urgent appeals can be voted on by telematic means. We will therefore suspend the sitting and the vote on these points will take place once it is resumed. The meeting was suspended until 2:15 p.m. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended at 1 p.m. The meeting was resumed at 2.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin voting, we shall read out the institutional declaration of the Congress of Deputies commemorating the International Day against Sexual Exploitation and Trafficking in Women, Children and Children. Mr. Secretary first, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u197	Manifesto of the International Day against Sexual Exploitation and Trafficking in Women, Girls and Children. The International Day against Sexual Exploitation and Trafficking of Women, Children, which is commemorated every 23 September, was established by the World Conference of the Coalition against Trafficking in Persons in coordination with the Dhaka Women's Conference [[1999]] Sexual exploitation and trafficking of women, girls and boys is an extreme manifestation of inequality and violence against women and their poverty in our society. According to data from the United Nations and the European Union, women and girls account for 71% of the victims of trafficking detected worldwide and 80% of those identified in Western Europe; 95% of them end up being exploited for prostitution. Sexual exploitation is the most common form of exploitation, accounting for 59%, followed by forced labour, which accounts for 34%. In line with article 6 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, ratified by Spain in 1986, States parties should "take all appropriate measures, including legislation, to eliminate all forms of trafficking in women and exploitation of prostitution of women". [[CEDAW, 1979]] Indeed, the sexual exploitation of women and minors is a human rights violation to which we can only show our deepest rejection and commitment to work towards its eradication. A society that seeks effective equality between women and men cannot consent to trade with women, girls and boys. For the eradication of sexual exploitation, we need the commitment and joint work of all public administrations and institutions. For the European Union, combating impunity for users, exploiters and those who profit from it is a priority, and 'the interests of trafficked women and girls must be central to the development of public policies'. For this reason, the Congress of Deputies wants to take advantage of this commemoration to publicly recognize the work that has been done for years by Third Sector organizations throughout Spain in the care of victims of trafficking. The work they do is key for victims of trafficking to have access to justice, health and social protection, and specifically, the work of NGOs has been vital for many women during the toughest moments of the pandemic. The Congress of Deputies, concerned with the serious human rights violation of sexual exploitation, shows its commitment to work on agreements that offer a legal, effective, coordinated and budgetary response for women who are being sexually exploited. It is urgent to pursue networks and mafias that profit by exploiting women, girls and boys. We must protect and assist victims, guarantee the dignity of women and foster spaces for cooperation with countries of origin. Finally, the Congress of Deputies calls on citizens, especially men, to show their absolute rejection of sexual exploitation as it violates human rights for women, girls and boys and is the slavery of the twenty-first century. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u198	Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u199	We shall proceed to the votes. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you, as usual, that you can only vote from the seat that is yours to be identified with your name on the screen, also that those Members who have already cast the vote through the telematic procedure cannot do so again from your seat. We started with voting on non-law proposals. Proposal for a law of the Republican Parliamentary Group on the express regularisation of immigrants in the areas of health, care and agriculture. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled jointly by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, the Republican Parliamentary Group, the Plural Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 119 plus 226 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 9 plus 50 telematics votes, 59; against, 110 plus 168 telematics votes, 278; abstentions, 8 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u200	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected. - OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE COVID-19 TAX PLAN, OR CIVIC SOLIDARITY TAXES TO FIND OUT THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONSEQUENCES OF COVID-19. [[File number 162/000239]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u201	No bill proposed by the Plural Parliamentary Group on the COVID-19 fiscal plan, or civic solidarity taxes to deal with the economic and social consequences of COVID-19. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 119 plus 226 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 1 plus 23 telematics votes, 24; against, 110 plus 174 telematics votes, 284; abstentions, 8 plus 29 telematics votes, 37.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u202	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u203	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. From the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the situation of the temporary troops of Tropa and Marineria who have reached or will reach the age of forty-five years during the current situation of health, economic and social crisis. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group and the Citizens Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 119 plus 226 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 20 plus 44 telematics votes, 64; against, 91 plus 145 telematics votes, 236; abstentions, 8 plus 37 telematics votes, 45.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u204	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT SO THAT THE FORCES AND SAFETY BODIES OF THE STATE CAN PROTECT SPAINS FROM THE ILLEGAL ASSALTS AND OccUPATIONS OF THEIR PROPERTY. [[File number 173/000021]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u205	Motion following urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Government to enable the State Security Forces and Corpses to protect the Spaniards from the illegal assault and occupation of their property. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 119 plus 224 telematics votes, 343; 49 plus 101 telematics votes, 150; against 70 plus 121 telematics votes, 191; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-23-CD200923.u206	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected. Thank you all very much. The meeting rose. It was two and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon.
