ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We start with the agenda item on the Ombudsman's reports on the management carried out during the years 2018 and 2019. As you know, in accordance with the rules of procedure, the deliberations will begin once the ombudsperson in office has completed the submission of his reports. Similarly, as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, the discussion of the two reports will take place cumulatively. For the presentation of a summary of the reports, I give the floor to the ombudsman, Fr. Francisco Fernández Marugán.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Two years have passed since I last came to this rostrum to fulfil the constitutional mandate to inform them of the Ombudsman's actions. Various circumstances - of all known, of course - prevented last year from presenting the results of our performances in 2018. That is why - as the President has rightly said - we began by giving them cumulative account of the annual reports and their corresponding monographs for the financial years 2018 and 2019. One and the other incorporate hundreds of pages. Therefore, the defender does not intend to detail these hundreds of pages, but to make a lighter session and talk about a number of facts that we consider relevant, related to unsolved structural problems over the last few years, with the impact of some issues on the whole of Spanish society, and, of course, aims to highlight the defense that we have made of a set of rights that the Constitution allows us to protect. Exercising control of the Government is not the function of the Ombudsman, it is a very important function that you do in Congress and in the Senate, and that is regulated by article 66 of the Constitution. The Ombudsman is assigned an equally important task, and is the defence of fundamental rights, and to this end is empowered to supervise the activities of public administrations. I mean, I don't control the government, I supervise the work of public administrations. And that is what we understand in Article 54 of the Spanish Constitution. As such, my purpose is to report, report, highlight some important aspects of our rule of law. But first, I would like to refer to two relevant issues. The first is gender-based violence. Unfortunately, I have to start with this issue by referring to a new murder of a woman and her two children by her partner, which occurred not many days ago in Ubeda. Since 2003, more than a thousand women have lost their lives at the hands of their partners or ex-partners. And not only that has happened, but there is some other equally frightening fact: almost forty sons and daughters have been killed by their parents. The seriousness of these events has led us to devote, for the first time, a specific chapter to gender-based violence in the annual report of 2019. However, I have to tell you that gender-based violence, within the scope of the Ombudsman's activities, has a limited space. Acts of violence end up being classified as a crime and must be analysed by judicial proceedings, and at that time we lose much of our ability to follow them. The Toledo Pact was a major operation in the fight against the scourge of gender-based violence and we still believe that there is a need to make some progress on this issue. Tools for early detection of the risk of violence must be improved, the coordination of social services with judicial bodies and security forces must be refined, and the procedures being carried out must be further simplified. In short, gender-based violence is currently the most important attack on the rights of women in Spain because it affects their freedom, their right to equal treatment, their right to life and their right to physical and moral integrity. Because it is as significant as what I have just said, it is precious to combat this scourge and to involve society as a whole, i.e. the administrations, institutions and associations working within it. The second issue I want to give some importance to, and I want to mean, is the demographic situation in Spain. Over the last decades, Spain has experienced a strong population shock that we have been following and that has given rise to both monographic reports presented with the global report of 2018 and the global report of 2019. The ageing of the population is a major phenomenon which is a challenge for the European Union and also for Spain. According to the data recently published by the INE, today, in Spain, those over the age of sixty-five account for almost 20% of the total population. If we use the projections made by this organization, in fifty years, the over sixty-five years will be 30% of the global population. Therefore, we are immersed in a clear process of ageing, and that is due to two coincident factors: the slowdown in population growth and the increase in life expectancy, which in the Spanish case is one of the highest not only in the European Union, but in the world. In 2019 the number of births continued with the downward trend that has been taking place over the last decade. This decline is due to three factors: the decrease in children per woman, the reduction in the number of women of childbearing age and the delay in the childbearing age. But there are other factors that are not demographic in nature, but social and cultural in nature that, in some way, also contribute to the sinking of birth in Spain. The difficulty of access to the labour market, increasing job insecurity, greater precariousness and temporaryity of jobs, the disproportion between the price of housing and basic services in relation to average wages, and perhaps, finally, the change in family dynamics and the change in roles between men and women within families. There's a fact I do want to highlight. Between 2015 and 2019 births are smaller than deaths and it is easy to understand that when this happens, the population tends to fall. Well, that doesn't happen between us. This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen; the opposite is true: the population has been rising over the last few years. And there is an explanation that is simple, the arrival of immigrants is the one that keeps the population growing in Spain. I mean, we're a country that didn't have, and still doesn't have, enough children, but that, I don't know whether consciously or unconsciously, what it has done is have immigrants. And that is the result of a fact that I am going to highlight very briefly here. There is a pattern in the evolution of the population that has at least three milestones: the progressive and uninterrupted increase in deaths, the number of births in persistent decline and a conclusion, that this negative balance of movements of the Spanish population is compensated by a positive balance of the migration process. And the reason why this situation may be due - I venture to say - to the fact that we are champions of job insecurity - and we have been for a few years now - to the fact that we have few policies and services that help reconciliation, to the fact that housing - I have said, I say and I will say - is expensive and, finally, to the fact that emancipation is late. I do not intend to go much further, but I do mean that in Spain perhaps we have not taken seriously the continuing decline of the native population. I therefore believe that there are a number of economic consequences arising from an ageing population and an unbalanced structure of the population. And I'm just going to say it. As fertility declines, the labour force is reduced. This reduction in the labour force weakens the potential for economic growth and the sequence that I have just drawn puts in check the sustainability not only of welfare policies - and we hear this with some frequency - but also very clearly tarnishes the level of stability of growth itself. Therefore, some things should be clarified in this area. This situation has been alleviated, and that relief is immigration. Between 2002 and 2019 the growth of the total population is not due to the increase of the people born in Spain - which, by the way, barely exceeds 4.3% - but due to the contribution of the imported population born abroad, which has multiplied by three. This would be a first topic. Second, the newly arrived population is younger than the Spanish population and also has a higher fertility rate. The average number of children per woman among Spanish mothers was, in 2019, 1.17%, the world record, is the lowest in the world. The number of children per woman of foreign mothers is 1.59%. There are some issues to be added to that relief that immigration brings, namely that the incorporation of immigrant women into domestic chores and care for people has allowed for greater activity among native women, and this has made, to some extent, their homework compatible with a certain relative increase in birth rate. There are some facts that I do want to highlight. First, immigration is not a burden for Spanish society today; on the contrary, it brings benefits to our economy. I'm going to give you one example. These citizens are necessary. If the foreign workers left the labour market tomorrow, the employment level of the economy would fall by 20%, below the level of employment achieved before the economic crisis. Having made these general considerations, I am going to refer to four aspects that have to do with basic elements of our welfare state: I am going to talk about climate change, which I did not speak about in the Commission and a spokesman reminded me of it - I bring it here because I wanted to bring it here, but I recognize the criticism that was made to me - I want to talk about housing, once again I want to talk about housing; I want to talk about old age in residential centres, and I want to talk about education. I'll start with climate change. Humanity is suffering from a series of extreme phenomena that derive from climate change and that force us in some way to renew our relationship with nature. An inhospitable world has caused damage to the life and property of an unprecedented dimension and gravity. 2019 has not been a good year for the planet: there have been abundant fires in the Amazon, Australia, Bolivia and California; there have been heavy floods in China, Bangladesh, the Mediterranean in general, and the Spanish Mediterranean in particular; strong hurricanes in the Bahamas; thawing in Greenland, and heat waves in Europe. In our case, the effect of the drops of cold is evident today, as it is no less a temerity to build in the channels of the rivers, to raise urbanizations in the ramblas and to allow to build houses and businesses on the edge of the sea. That is why, from the Ombudsman's point of view, we argue that administrations must act decisively to prevent it from being built in areas that may be swallowed up by water. Apart from the issue of cold drops, I would also like to talk about forest fires. Spain has a large forest area and tens of thousands of hectares of mountain are burned every year. Fighting forest fires requires the combined and joint effort of different administrations and society as a whole. Although no one in Spain is free of this risk, Galicia accumulates more than half of the forest fires that occur in Spain. There are also higher magnitude fires, large forest fires. In 2019 fourteen were counted, when the average of the last hundred years had been six. The fire of the Canary Islands in the summer of 2019 is a good example of what I have been holding. Climate change has therefore led to high temperatures and severe droughts, prolonged droughts, which have led to an increase in the season of fires, moving forward in the spring and extending into the autumn. In these circumstances, politics should not be reduced solely to increasing the means of extinction. Forest policy requires specific management and appropriate territorial planning to deal with large forest fires that devour entire regions. Mary Zambrano said, and rightly said, that there are phenomena that must lead us to have another way of life, a different way of inhabiting the planet, a different way of being a person. I'll talk about the house now. In the Commission I highlighted two facts which I would also like to highlight here. First, access to housing for young people and low-income families has acquired such difficulty that it is impossible for these two groups to have housing. Secondly, we argue that the actions to be taken must be to increase social rental housing for young people and low-income families. That increase in supply must go through a series of milestones. Intervention must be plentiful in quantity and in resources and, of course, acting on only a few promotions is not enough. The policy to address this housing problem must be maintained over time. Social housing programmes must acquire a high level of coordination between the central government of the State, the autonomous communities and the municipalities. In addition, it is essential to carry out a simultaneous deployment of various lines of action: tax actions, public investments, general regulatory and urban measures, and a target group; and the target group is young people, low-income families, single-parent families, families who have suffered evictions and immigrants. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing an important problem of inequality, where it is easy to find the weak, very easy - I have listed them before - and it is necessary to launch a set of actions by the Administration that leads, among other things, to the construction of public housing parks. Old age in residential centers. At the end of 2017 we started a series of informal activities in all the autonomous communities to know the situation of the residential centers of the elderly, whether they were public or private. We wanted to know what action was being taken by public administrations to guarantee the rights of older persons living there. We addressed the communities and the result of this performance was incorporated into the 2018 monographic report. In May 2019 we referred to these administrations the conclusions - of all the autonomous communities, of course - and, in some way, we asked them to let us know their views on this issue. I will be quick and direct, and I will quote the most relevant conclusions. There are multiple regulations to resolve the authorisation and accreditation of the operation of these centres; there is little data and unreliable, and more appropriate information is needed if we are to develop an information strategy that will help solve the problems of residents. There is a shortage of public and concerted places of residential care to meet the existing demand which, by the way, has been growing and will continue to grow. There is a shortage of direct care staff, of people who care for residents, and the training of staff working in these centres needs to be increased. There is talk of health care; the residential care that today provides health care to residents is very generic. Therefore, when problems are detected, referrals in the National Health System must be used, which are sometimes problematic. Finally, we need to have some inspection services that work more effectively and allow for a monitoring function that does not exist today. All this I have said so far about residences has to do with organizational deficiencies, but on the issue of residences there are two issues that the Ombudsman brings here, and that he brings them consciously, which have to do with the rights of residents. An organic law is needed. I'll tell you why. An organic law is needed to solve the problems that arise with involuntary income. Many older people have serious problems of physical and mental deterioration, and their protection must be guaranteed when consent to entry into residential centres is granted. But there are also problems of that which is called mechanical or physical attachments, and in that there is quite a coincidence between the approaches of the Ombudsman and the approaches of the autonomous communities. Subjections should be minimised in their use, subjections should only be used in cases of serious risk and should only be applied when all alternative measures have been exhausted. Their practice must be done on an optional prescription and, of course, their time, if extended, must be known by the judicial authority. Given this set of circumstances, the organic law to which I referred earlier may not be in time. Therefore, a real and effective commitment by the competent administrations to residential centres, professionals, users and family members was perhaps good in order to achieve the most free and effective care possible. As can be deduced from my words - and if it is not deduced I will say it clearly -, the residential system of elderly people in Spain suffers from a series of dysfunctions that need to be corrected. These shortcomings have been highlighted in connection with the pandemic we are now suffering, which does nothing else in this respect but put a magnifying glass and enlarge a set of problems already known. In principle, one could say that the defender's work ends there, ends in the closure of the information tasks to his lordships referring to the year 2018 and 2019, but in our case it has not ended there. On April 2 and 3, 2020, we opened again an ex officio event with all the Health Councils and all the Social Policy Councils of the Autonomous Communities. And I say all of them because the administrative structure of the autonomous communities is not only related to what we might call health councils, but in some cases also affects social policy councils. The object is always to know the response that each territory gives to this emergency in order, once we have the information, to be able to determine to what extent we must act on the unintended assumption - and I will talk about this issue later - of epidemic threats. On 24 April, we once again addressed all the Autonomous Communities to recommend, inter alia, the strengthening of health care in the homes of patients with COVID-19, the provision of personal protective equipment for staff and residents, the need to provide workers with work losses in the homes of older persons, to ensure that residents' families are informed about the health of these residents and also about possible referrals to residential or hospital centres. We also understood that the uninfected elderly should be allowed to return voluntarily and temporarily to their families without losing their place and, of course, provided that health care was available. Finally, we recommend that protocols be adopted to facilitate the farewell of the terminal resident, so that the death process is as humanized and dignified as possible. We did that in April, we are in June, we have not received abundant information on this issue, but in any case in the 2020 report we will provide you with the information we are now collecting and the conclusions we draw from it. Education. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we will all agree that an inclusive, stable and quality education system is needed. But a good education system that combines these three characteristics does not arise overnight, does not arise from day to day, takes years to be implemented, time to evaluate its performance and make any corrections it needs. Our experience is not entirely satisfactory on this issue. Seven laws - seven laws - have been passed in this House over the past forty years. I think it is time for coincidences to take precedence over disagreements and somehow make an effort among all of us to achieve the stability that the Spanish education system needs. There is a second problem to which I would like to refer, and it is that of social inclusion. Our educational system achieved universalization in the 20th century and today in Spain the majority of children under the age of 10 are in school. In the twenty-first century, there was a need to do other things, to avoid educational poverty, which punished large sections of the population who had many economic difficulties. It is true that some of the things concerning economic resources have been growing as a result of the austerity policies implemented in Spain since 2008; now families affected by unemployment and educational poverty also face enormous difficulties in dealing with major costs, such as the acquisition of computers, tablets, transport systems, language teaching systems. I will give an example which highlights the problems of social inclusion, a problem which concerns the defender, who has been working on this issue for the past few years, and which brings him here, before his ladies and gentlemen, because I understand that this is a serious problem. In Melilla, in the Autonomous City of Melilla there is a group of families of Moroccan origin who have resided in this society for years and who are in a situation of complete invisibility and social exclusion. It is estimated that there are about one hundred children who are born in Melilla and who do not have access to the basic right to education; they find obstacles to their compulsory schooling, which affects them disproportionately and are sometimes discriminated against. The inability to register prevents them from going to school; the inability to register, I repeat, prevents them from going to school. Despite all the efforts I have made, the fact is that the 2019-2020 course has been completed and only one minor, just one, has been enrolled. Look, I am aware of the difficulties, I am very aware of the difficulties of all kinds faced by the Education Administration in that territory; I insist, I am fully aware of the difficulties of all kinds faced by the Education Administration in that territory. However, I am one of those who believe that reality is complex and that it cannot in any way be solved at the expense of the rights of the most vulnerable, it cannot be done. The boys and girls of Melilla, as well as the boys and girls of the rest of Spain, where they have to stay is at school, it is at school, and they do not have to be, when they are of school age, at home; I say this with total sincerity. This issue, ladies and gentlemen, I raise it here so that you, who are the ones who have the opportunity to resolve this issue, can resolve it at once. In Spain there are children who are not in school and should be in school! I conclude by making some general comments on the pandemic problem and how I think we could address it, at least to give my opinion on how it could be addressed. Look, humanity has been the victim of a virus that it did not detect, a virus that has thrown us unthinkingly, brutally, into an unnecessary scenario that we had never experienced. We knew little about it, but in these months we have been realizing that it is quite powerful, so powerful that it was able to stop the world, yes; that it was able to stop the planet, something that had never happened, and that it triggered a series of emergencies of all known - the health emergency, the economic emergency, the social emergency - that acted at the same time and to get out of the jam they required us to control the virus. Honestly, I think we've managed to resist a lot. We have made an important sacrifice and endured pain in this first wave. We are descaling, but the threat to public health remains. We have resisted, but we have not yet won. The virus is still there, in society, and can therefore re-emerge at any time, as has happened in some areas and as has happened with some viruses. We must all continue to promote maximum responsibility and discipline among citizens and assume our own self-requirement. We have to go carefully and not get carried away by the desire to return quickly to the previous normality. There are three lines I think we should remember, which are those of resistance, recovery and reactivation, and for that it would be good for us to come to a set of important agreements where consensus was reflected: the consensus of the institutions, the consensus of the political forces, the economic and social consensus. I would like to see some of these issues resolved during this parliamentary period. I'm finishing up. The set of measures taken since the state of alarm statement by all administrations has helped and made the damage inflicted much less. The apocalypse has not occurred and it is necessary to highlight what we have done, and to do so because sometimes there are discussions and controversies that come to question a fact as palmarial and as obvious as that which we have been carrying out over the last three months. I'm done for good. We have an order, a function, a task, and that task, which is to ensure that public administrations comply with rights, fulfil the rights and freedoms of individuals, must be safeguarded and the Ombudsman is committed to this. We, when we touch, will bring the 2020 report to this house, taking into account what has been done during the months of the fight against the pandemic. That's the right thing to do in constitutional terms, and that's what we're thinking of doing. I very much appreciate the silence and your attention to my words. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u3	Thank you very much, Ombudsman, Mr Fernández Marugán. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all, Mr Gimeno, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am very grateful to the Ombudsman for bringing us the circumstances that reflect above all the feelings of the citizens. For our part, we only want to stress one aspect that concerns us and that he mentions repeatedly in his reports: the lack of services in mobile telephony and digital coverage throughout the territory. Both in one report and in another, but especially in 2019, the defender highlights the lack of such services and the need for both the telephone service and the Internet access service to be considered as universal service. It seems anomalous, but, for example, neither our Senator Beatriz Martín in his village, Bueña, nor I in mine, Cutanda, can use either the phone or the tablet that Congress and the Senate facilitate. I mean, we're really incommunicado, from parliamentarians. There is no better example than this about the lack of telephone services. Fixed telephony is part of the digital service approved by the Government and this Parliament; however, mobile telephony is not part of the universal telecommunications service and this really only depends on this House and the Government. We therefore ask that, in the light of the issues raised by the citizens who have transmitted their complaints to the Ombudsman, we ensure that, once and for all, mobile telephony and the Internet service are a universal service collected and provided by this Government. Just that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you so much. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Marugán, a great friend and a very respected man in the parliamentary history of this country, I will tell you one thing. Yesterday I thought what to tell you in the short time I have when we talked so much at this time, and I am going to make a proposal to you and this House regarding what has happened in senior residences, how they are and how the Dependency Act is, that issue we had parked there. It cannot be a year from now, in his report next year, nor can he be in the hands of political wars to cast the dead to see who did it worse depending on whether you are in Madrid, Aragon, the Canary Islands or the Balearic Islands. 'I believe that the only neutral body which has the power to hold all the administrations in this country accountable, which has the means and which is not involved in political war, is the Ombudsman. I will ask this Congress and you that the analysis of what has happened, what are the shortcomings and what is needed be entrusted to you by all the parties in this country and in this House the Ombudsman and put the means in place if necessary. Why? Because teleassistance and home care are the competence of the municipalities; the residences of older people and the social health centres are the competence of the autonomous communities or of the deputies in some cases - in the case of the Canary Islands, of the cabildos -; the health is the competence of the autonomous communities, and the failure to comply with the Law on Dependence, because the State had to pay 50%, is the responsibility of the State. All this must be demanded of the 8,000 municipalities, communities and parliaments. We need to know how many people died and, as you say, we need to look at the issue of the indignity of death and mourning and what we need in the coming years to ensure that there is dignity, the means, the resources, the inspection of private and public centres and the compliance of administrations. I believe that the Ombudsman is the one who can recover history, reality and positive proposals without the political component of throwing the dead at our faces. This society needs to reconcile with what happened and have the assurance that it will not happen again. Mr Marugán, the last issue that you and I have raised with PP governments and PSOE governments is that the worst situation in this country with regard to immigration is that of Venezuelan families with children. UNHCR has said so, Caritas has said it and Red Cross has said it. Asylums and residence and work permits are blocked in the Ministry of the Interior. I am now asking you, as Ombudsman, to rejoin and demand the Government of Spain, just as Europe is doing in Colombia with the millions of people who have left Venezuela, to resolve this situation immediately so that they are not on the street and are not in shelters. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Finally, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group as well.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u8	Good morning. First of all, I want to say that from the perspective of the UPC, the Ombudsman's Office, like the Greuges Union for us, is a very important figure in the defence of human rights. Secondly, I would like to say that from everything that is reported in the two reports we could have chosen many topics, especially the refusal to bring the unconstitutionality remedy for the application of Article 155 to the Generalitat and the Catalan institutions. But today we have wanted to bring up a subject that is hardly discussed in this House, which is the deportations of migrants. In fact, both reports mention various operations of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, Frontex, and various human rights violations are reported. Deportations, for those who are not aware of the issue, can be carried out by Frontex with the cooperation of the National Police or can even be operationally organized directly by the National Police. Apart from the reports, you know that the Ombudsman's Office also draws resolutions, and there are multiple resolutions on violations of deportation rights, violations of both Frontex and the National Police protocols; unidentified people, not giving information to people who are being deported, no interpreters, people deported to countries that are not their own, etc. But if we focus on the protocol of the National Police in terms of deportations, we find things like this: the possible use of containment measures, security ties, wives, helmets, previous searches, the possibility of immobilizing people who resist and even sedate them. And, I read textually, says the protocol of the National Police: Under no circumstances will the application of coercive measures compromise vital functions of the returnees; I repeat, vital functions of the returnees. And you know why that happens? Do you know why a National Police protocol specifies that no one can be killed? Because this protocol was born in 2007 because a Nigerian citizen dies on a commercial plane while he is deported because two escorts gag him. And you know what that has to do with it? With an organized, conscious and systematic policy of the European Union with migration, what is called 'Europe fortitude'; detention centres, raids, deportations and borders. And you know what this is called? Institutional racism, and institutional racism take lives at sea, in detention centres and in deportations, and in the Spanish State many lives have been taken. I'm done, Madam President. From the point of view of the UPC, we are for the right to migration and free movement; in short, for the defence of life. And we take this opportunity to ask your ladies and gentlemen whether they are going to support the GNP that will be presented tomorrow at a regularisation press conference, because no life deserves to be killed by a racist public policy.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you so much. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u10	Thank you, Madam President. I speak briefly from the seat if I may. Mr. People's Advocate, thank you once again for your intervention, for your dedication, which some of us have been dealing with in one way or another for some time. I would highlight two issues in your report and in the speeches that have also been made on this subject. One issue is the gaps in society, gaps that can be attributed to the Government or institutions, lack of infrastructure, lack of basic issues even for many of the people living there. But there is another issue that is different and that is not just shortcomings, and it is the violation of basic rights or even human rights, which is something that I will mainly refer to, because other issues I believe can be attacked or remedied from other perspectives. First of all, the macho violence - you yourself said it in your speech, and I think it is very important that you have addressed your first words on this issue - is a sad reality that our society suffers, and this very week we have even questioned from this rostrum some interventions. It seems abhorrent to me that today, even according to the reports you present in this House, that is still being questioned; therefore, our greater involvement in this matter and it seems to us very interesting, very important that you stress it. In your 2018 report you call for more involvement of the administrations to end male-based violence and insist on the need to protect children and women victims of gender-based violence quickly and effectively. In 2019 the report insists on the existing coordination failures, communication errors and, therefore, I think we have all the institutions enough work to do when you have pointed out with your finger that there are failures in this area. Secondly, trafficking in human beings. It seems to me another violation of human rights, and you point that out in your report. In this State there is trafficking in persons, there is trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation. I believe that, apart from the need and the obligation we have to eradicate it, we must inflate his tooth. Thirdly, migrants, a subject to which other speakers have also referred. I believe that the management of humanitarian reception for people who have irregular access to Spain - let us call it irregular what is not legal - and the management of people who need international protection, as well as the situation of minors in temporary centres, need a thorough organic and functional review. There are continuing demands for asylum and international protection. Spain has completed 2019 with 135 000 outstanding applications. Its institution made more than half a hundred suggestions to the Secretariat of State for Migration. I do not know whether they are answered, whether the processing has been followed or how the situation is going. Finally, although there would be many more issues to deal with, but I do not want to go beyond them, there is the issue of the mechanism for the prevention of torture, as well as that of the proceedings that have been carried out. Within that mechanism there is also the situation of prison institutions, prisons, something that has always worried us, and you stress women deprived of their liberty because of their sex in prisons as an important issue, you even made a report. As a result of that report, two weeks ago my parliamentary group presented here a non-legislative proposal to deal with the issue of the situation of women in prisons, a situation which some questioned, that there was discrimination, that there was a peremptory situation, that there was a situation different from that of men, when the report that you yourself made detected it, details it and denounces it. On behalf of my group, I ask you to continue this work, to continue to make an effort, especially in the defence of basic rights and human rights. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Ombudsman, for all the work you have presented to us today and for your presentation. I believe that what you have submitted to this House are not mere requests, mere complaints or mere interventions, but an X-ray, indicators of the necessary improvements, indicators of the problems of social inequalities and indicators of the discrimination that we have in Spain and that we must solve. I would like to begin by referring to some quantitative data. You are in an institution that receives almost 16 million euros per year, which requires that we also ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of your actions, and it draws my attention, when I see the figures, the territorial inequalities in complaints - even for that we have inequalities -: the Madriders, the Andalusians, the Valencians and the Catalans are more users of your institution than the rest of the Spanish. I would like to make a point here, just as my colleague in the Commission did, and it is that after the situation we have experienced with the confinement stage, we insist that open channels be established, even in situations such as those we have experienced, because it is often the most difficult people who cannot access the institution and therefore believe that it is important to improve these pathways. I will make a brief reference to the exceptional situation we have experienced. You have referred to the issue of the pandemic, and the truth is that some parliamentary groups have raised with you in full alarm that you have submitted a report on all the complaints you had received during the confinement. We believed that at that time it did not touch, but we believe it does now, and I announce that we are going to ask for an appearance so that you will notice more than a thousand complaints that you have had concerning many issues in this period of crisis of the coronavirus. I would like to refer to some of them, because one of the groups that has been most affected and who has been most affected is that of the health care workers, who have complained that they have not had material, that they have not had the necessary PPE; also that changes have been made in their schedules and in their work schedules, and that there have been deficiencies in the protocols of action, not only health care, but also of the communication of families with the patients. I do not know what Mr Illa and the other administrations have transmitted to him in this regard, but I would like to know him when he has an answer. I would also like to refer to a question that you and I have also asked, through this House, and which I have not answered, which has to do with the coordinating role of the Ministry of Health in relation to intensive care units. How many intensive care beds were empty at the height of the pandemic, where we did not support many citizens? We want to have those figures. If you answer, please let me know why you don't give them to me. I also wanted to refer to some complaints relating to economic issues. There have been complaints about the late payment of ERTEs and also on the issue of taxes. We asked the Minister of Finance to please extend the time limit for the IRPF statement, because we believed that if we had had to be flexible, unfortunately flexible, in the collection of ERTEs, the Administration could also be flexible when we paid the taxes. We were told that 'Nanaino'. I do not know what he has said to you, but we believe that this matter is important. You do not refer in your press releases to an issue on which I believe you are going to have complaints, which is the lack of transparency in this period. If you don't have any complaints - you don't mention them - I'll tell you that you're going to have them and many, because there has been one and we believe it's important to raise it as well. I will mention a few points in the 2019 report, which I believe are not sufficiently mentioned and I think they are very important. Look, in 2019, very serious, very serious things have been reported to your office, some of which we have also denounced in this Congress and have received absolutely lax answers or no answers. I'm going to make a memory. Last summer he denounced to his institution - and we denounced it in this House - the espionage in schools by the Platform per la Llengua, with the acquiescence of the Administration. Frankly, I have missed some reference to this issue, given its great sensitivity to childhood and its great sensitivity to education. Also, in November this year, a study was reported, funded by the Ministry of Economics and developed by the University of Lleida, where minors were asked whether they were independent or not. Again, I believe that this is an important issue, and I have not seen a reference to these violations of the right to data protection and the right to children either. I would like to refer to a matter that concerns me very closely, because I myself have denounced it to your institution and I have not received an answer, which has to do with the linguistic projects of the centre. It is mandatory to publish the linguistic projects of the center, and we have denounced that there are many centers, both in Balearic Islands, Catalonia, and in Valencia, that do not, and the parents cannot have information, neither the parents nor the students. But it is also that we have brought to your institution more than 2500 linguistic projects of center, which in these areas say that you do not have access to study in Spanish. It seems to me to be a very serious violation of the rights of children and parents. I know that the answer you gave is that you were brought to court, but it seems to me to be an insufficient answer. We expect something more, that administrations are warned that they are fundamental rights and that they have to be preserved. I also announce that you already have complaints in this regard from the association PLIS, in Balearic Islands, and that I myself am going to ask you today to bring before your institution a complaint about the coercion being made by the Valencian Generalitat, through a form, to children who, in the legitimate exercise of their right to linguistic exception in Spanish-speaking areas, are being told that they will not be able to compete with the rest of their companions in the future. We have denounced this issue to the European Ombudsman and we are going to take it to you because it seems to us to be a serious attack on the students. I do not want to end without referring to a very important issue, sexual abuse of minors in Majorca centres. Here we were denied a commission of inquiry because it was said that this matter had been brought before the Prosecutor's Office and before you, and I would like to know how that information file is. It is a very serious violation of childhood, it is a very serious violation of women. You referred to gender-based violence, I agree with you in all the recommendations you make, but I would also like you to make a specific report on violence against children, based on the data we have had and on these issues that we believe are fundamental. Nothing more and thank you very much, Mr. Defender.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Martin. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u14	Thank you, Madam President. I will briefly point out some of the issues raised in the Ombudsman's reports, insofar as they serve as a clear indicator of the serious shortcomings that continue to occur in most public services and public policies, and which the Government must correct, although I will only be able to mention for a matter of time some of them. They highlight complaints concerning foreigners in the Spanish State, which show that the regularization of migrants in the State is one of the outstanding and urgent tasks. There is the non-legislative proposal that will be presented tomorrow and that the BNG promotes together with other political forces from the social initiative of Regulation Ya, and that we hope it will be approved. Another issue in which the report has a special impact, showing that much remains to be done, is that of gender-based violence, as the complaints received also highlight shortcomings in the public protection system and judgments that are often more serious the more vulnerable the victim is. It also highlights the violation of linguistic rights in a State that has not just assumed in practice and with all the consequences the existence of peoples with their own language such as Galician. Hence the recommendation to ensure that language rights are respected in the educational system which, by the way, was also made by the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe concerning compliance with the European Charter of Languages, or when processing in the various languages before the General Administration of the State. Thus, it draws attention to the extensive mention of the serious deficits in this area by the Tax Agency, which is required to ensure that all taxpayers can use any of the official languages on their territory. Other relevant issues on which I am unfortunately unable to stop are the rights of inmates in prisons, police ill-treatment and abuse of the law - which must now be repealed -; discrimination within the scope of military criminal proceedings that we have recently discussed in this House; the requirements for obtaining scholarships and aid; the problem of co-payment of medicines; the difficulties in ensuring the right to housing that ends up in an eviction without a solution to public housing, and so many others that give an idea of the serious problems that citizens and citizens live every day and that they must be solved by effective measures and certain social and democratic measures and policies that must, of course, be the goal not only of the Government but of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u15	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you, Mrs. Cepeda. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Miquel i Valenti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u16	Thank you, President. Mr. Ombudsman, thank you very much for your reports and for your presentation. Let me make a detailed and interesting comment on all the issues that deal with your reports, not in a way of reproach, but in a way of comment, that I miss a chapter that I could name as a chapter of freedoms, for example, and in both reports. In that chapter I think we could talk about the violation, for example, of artistic freedom in Spain. I do not say this, the Freemuse organization, which is an international organization that guards and monitors the rights of artists and censorship, systematically comments that Spain is the country of the world, of the world, that has the most imprisoned artists. Amnesty International also says, in fact, one of its spokespersons said: Spain is an emblematic example of a disturbing trend in which States throughout Europe limit freedom of art and expression. And that is why we did not find a single word in your reports, and that is why I think it would be interesting for you to take this situation into account in the 2020 report. It is no coincidence that Spain leads a ranking like that of imprisoned artists, and that is - you know it and make reference to it at some point in the reports - as an anti-terrorist law to promote artistic censorship. Specifically, article 538 of the Criminal Code was used to restrict the freedom of such persons. I would add a second chapter of freedom of expression. You refer to the violation of neutrality of some administrations, especially Catalan ones, as they already specify, in relation to what should be this neutrality of the administrations, and to that you add to the Supreme Court's ruling, 564 just a few weeks ago, and its considerations. A freedom of expression in the administrations and the lack of neutrality added to that sentence can lead us to a somewhat strange situation and it is that this month, which is precisely the month of the LGTBI pride, many administrations, like the central government, hang in their balconies flags defending the rights of the LGTBI collective, but as some members of this House may also consider that these are not rights to defend or to promote because they also violate the neutrality of the administrations, especially those in which they govern or which they form part, they have to withdraw those flags, which would undoubtedly be a setback in terms of rights and freedom of expression also of the administrations, which is a right which I do recognize. Finally, freedom of assembly. You make many references to the inconvenience of the Law gag and its uses and abuses. We have been defending the repeal of this law, and the government that has been ruling this country for two years is deciding and supposedly pushing for the repeal of this law, which is not yet coming, but it is because of this law that rights such as freedom of expression and freedom of assembly are violated. You make no reference, for example, to the violation of the rights of the imprisoned Jordi Sànchez and Jordi Cuixart, who systematically, and also by international organizations such as Amnesty International, have been denounced precisely for a reading of what is the crime of sedition a little strange. I'm done with this, Mr. People's Advocate. I thank you again for your work and your attendance here today and we look forward to seeing you very soon here or wherever. Thank you so much for your work.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u18	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Advocate of the People and all your team, for the enormous task you have done in these more than two thousand pages, in these two reports, for defending the fundamental rights and public freedoms of the citizenry through this supervision you and your entire team do of the activity of the public administrations of the Spanish State. We don't have much time. We believe that one of the tasks of the new conception of fundamental rights is to expose above all the falsehoods with which States make use of human rights. And we are talking about human rights here today in the Republican Group, about the three pillars on which you have relied, especially on gender-based violence, the wage gap, the administration of justice and the civil registry. We emphasize something that is really recurrent in all reports - not only in 2018 and 2019 but also in the previous ones - and that concerns the part of the Spanish state society that lives under an extreme, extreme, precarious and vulnerable degree, we are talking about migrant people. From this rostrum we invite all the forces of this Chamber to give support to a GNP that many forces have registered this week for the regularization of migrants in irregular administrative situations, who are almost 700,000 people; our neighbours and neighbours, of the Spanish State, who are in a situation, I say again, of great precariousness, of great vulnerability. The truth is that with the current conception of human rights for so many people in this State, migrants, refugees, their hunger is another hunger, their life is another life; but we think that the life of every individual in this society is absolutely linked to every person who makes up this society. In the reports of 2018 and 2019, Mr. People's Advocate, there are topics that are repeated a lot in all your resolutions, recommendations, suggestions, reminders of legal duties, warnings... We believe that the same grievances and human rights violations as in previous reports will continue to exist in the 2020 report. We also recognize the great work of these reports on the chronification of inequalities in the Spanish State. But we are talking about the great day of the marmot, I insist, is a great day of the marmot; it is a shame that we have almost two thousand leaflets of the Ombudsman and that there are problems that are repeated year after year, year after year. I'm going to give you some brushstrokes. CETI and CIE. We know of the summary expulsions, the police abuses on the southern border of Spain, the difficulty in the case of Melilla, the impossibility also in the case of Ceuta of access to the border posts. We know basically what you say in your reports about the terrible conditions in which people living in CETI and IECs find themselves: discrimination on the grounds of skin colour, nationality, belief; lack of attention to vulnerable groups, such as LGBTI people. We ask every Member of this House what is his impression of the virtually nil response of the Spanish Government to the CETI and the CIEs? Shelter. Thousands of people have died trying to cross the Mediterranean as governments - and I am talking about Europe as a whole - criminalize solidarity. The contrast between the reception of refugees as part of the Spanish State's speech and the various allegations of brutality of anti-migration measures is enormous, it is enormous, ladies and gentlemen; you can read it in the Ombudsman's reports. Accepting the CIEs, the controls, the Aliens Act - which is empty in content - the slogan 'accepted refugees' is hypocrisy. The reception of refugees in the Spanish State and in many other European States is hypocrisy. You, Mr. Ombudsman, have done a very good job, even on your own. I refer to two cases, two deaths that have occurred in juvenile centres. Young Ilyas in Almería and another young man who, by the way, the Andalusian Junta did not help - it is also reflected in his report - when six people handcuffed him into a room where the mechanical containment protocol was activated. We have videos of El País explaining how this young man died. Also a young man admitted to the Melilla County Hospital in a coma, who died. Also, children who have not attended school in Melilla, and from here, my thanks, Mr. Ombudsman, because you have been very attentive to this issue. It is a shame, as you have said, to refer to your words before. The Ombudsman - as a national mechanism for the prevention of torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment - has been, as I have said before, in the CIEs, in the CETIs, in juvenile detention centres, in prisons, in social integration centres, in the police station, in the Civil Guard, in mental care centres, in the Hospital Care Unit, in first aid and care centres for foreigners, in the custody unit of the local police and in the Municipal Detainee Depot, in the Frontex repatriation operation - which can now be deported to 82 countries, last year could only be deported to fourteen countries. Right now - I am finishing, Madam President - we are in front of the 'fascisation' of the world. Extreme right-wings are trying to guide States, governments. We are facing a very hard period in the history of humanity. Let's not let it fall at this time. I've just given you some very good news, which you'll probably know. In the reports - both in 2018 and 2019 - you spoke of the stolen babies. You made recommendations to the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Labour, Migration and Social Security and the Ministry of Justice. You were not very successful in your actions, Mr. People's Advocate, but a couple of days ago a bill was taken into consideration here in this house by various parliamentary groups on the stolen babies of the Spanish State...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u19	Mrs. Carvalho, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u20	I'm done. With this, his 2018 and 2019 work has had its effect. And the rest, about the entrance, about the deportations - of which the colleague Mireia Vehí has already spoken - about the disproportionate state action, the police brutality, the violation of freedom of expression, the law bites, we believe that in the report of volume two - now I make a criticism, Mr. People's Advocate - of 2019, when you talk about the contribution of Spanish immigration, the contribution does not have to be seen only in one aspect...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u21	Mrs. Carvalho, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u22	... just under one aspect of volume two of his 2019 report, it is for human rights and social justice and not just an economic, mercantilist and often utilitarian aspect, as we have seen in the regularization of Portugal and Italy. We do not want this in the Spanish State; human rights, regularization and social justice. Thank you so much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Mrs Márquez Guerrero has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to begin by highlighting the value, the relevance of the Ombudsman's institution and his fundamental task of ensuring the rights and freedoms of our people. Thank you so much. The reports for the years 2018 and 2019 constitute a perfect X-ray of a decade lost in social rights, rights that, by the way, should be considered fundamental rights because they guarantee and sustain life. And as such X-ray, it is a solid basis for making a diagnosis and also a prognosis of the reality of our country. We agree with the Ombudsman's analysis that the 2008 economic crisis and, fundamentally, the austerity and cuts policies that have been implemented have had very serious consequences, which we are still suffering today in areas as essential to life as health, education, housing or in matters of equality and equity. These reports are, ladies and gentlemen, as beacons that can guide us in the right direction and should be taken into account in the work of the Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction. Since time is scarce and matter is huge, I will focus on some actions in relation to social rights. The reports do indeed note that austerity policies have led to the deterioration of social rights and public services, and, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of cutting rights to get out of the crisis, quite the contrary; it is a question of strengthening them and guaranteeing them so that they can resist, to go back and, fundamentally, so that the crises do not pay for them, the most vulnerable sectors of our society. In health, for example, cuts that began in 2012 have strained public administration health budgets with dramatic effects during the pandemic. The shortage of material and human resources has left us in a situation of maximum defencelessness, extreme vulnerability. The consequences are already known to all: very long waiting lists, hundreds of surgical operations and delayed diagnostic tests and collapsed emergencies. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not reverse these policies with greater investment, the ombudsperson will be right at the risk that this situation will be chronicled and that the deterioration will be difficult to reverse. We share with the Ombudsman the need to strengthen primary care, especially in rural areas, and to bring, as soon as possible, psychological care to the Inter-Territorial Health Council so that the State and the autonomous communities increase the resources allocated to it. Ladies and gentlemen, neither can savings be based on the co-payment of the necessary medicines because these measures affect the most vulnerable population, the people who are unemployed, the disabled and people who have serious and chronic diseases. On the other hand, the findings of the reports on senior residences are very significant; the diagnosis is devastating. Unfortunately, the data that the Ombudsman gave us in the 2018 and 2019 reports were confirmed in 2020: basically the absence of an effective social and health model, the lack of resources and the shortage of inspection services. We have found that the privatization of residences puts the profit of vulture funds before the welfare of our elderly. There will be a need, as the Ombudsman says, for a thorough review of the model as a whole: organic law, commitments..., reorganization. In education we find a similar picture. Lack of investment causes very serious deficiencies in the facilities and maintenance of schools, in complementary services such as transportation or dining, or in access to textbooks in many autonomous communities. We're talking about cracks in the classrooms in Andalusia, we're talking about girls and boys in contact with asbestos. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not increase investment in education, we will never be able to have quality and inclusive education that makes equality a priority and equity in access to education a reality. Ladies and gentlemen, the difficult situation we are going through in these areas and in other areas such as housing or equality is not going to be solved with flags, patriotic proclamations, empty speeches that resort to time or remote spaces - Venezuela, ETA -; no, ladies and gentlemen. The welfare state requires concrete measures, and I say them: structural policies, budgetary resources, a firm defence of public management and fiscal justice. Yes, fiscal justice, which is the basis of social justice. [[Give it up.]] I would like to thank the Ombudsman for his work and, in particular, for his concern about the rights of migrant girls and children arriving alone in our country. The discourse of intolerance and xenophobia of the far right should not have the slightest space in a democratic society, because when we are talking about children, the only possible language is the language of rights. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. [[Give it up.]] I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with some reasons for hope, because in previous years the Ombudsman had been detecting serious deficiencies in the scholarship and study aid system. As you know, the Government has agreed to reform the system with the largest budget increase in the allocation of scholarships in eleven years, scholarships that will be linked to economic circumstances and not to school returns because in democracy, ladies and gentlemen, scholarships are not a reward, they are a right.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u25	Mrs. Marquez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u26	I'm done, President. The last report of the Ombudsman called for the creation of an integrated minimum income system at the state level. A few days ago we approved the minimum living income here. This is the policy that demands and demands citizenship, a courageous policy that expands rights, a policy that advances firmly and resolutely towards the democracy of the everyday and a policy, above all, useful, that protects and takes care of, that defends our people from those who want to sell it. Thank you so much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Marquez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you, Mrs. Cepeda. Mr Alcaraz Martos has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr Fernández Marugán, you have had and I hope you will have a lot of work, and a very difficult job, you just have to look here at the Chamber to corroborate what I say. Never in this House has he had so many enemies of Spain sitting in his seats: proteras, progolpists, separatists, communists, and the worst of all we have the Socialist Group supporting and supporting them. [[Give it up.]] So, he's going to have a lot of work. In fact, the reports for the years 2018 and 2019 so pick it up, and I'm going to believe it with what I'm going to comment on later. I would also like to point out, as I told you at the time and I did not get an answer - although I imagine the answer I had to ask you in the Commission - that it is strange that in 2019 we have almost 20% increase in complaints to the Ombudsman regarding 2018 and, however, the actions and investigations of the Ombudsman carried out ex officio are reduced to almost half; little more to add. We also regret that when he appeared in the Ombudsman's Committee he acted simply as an official chronicler of the Social Communist Government by contributing what happened in these two years, and deprived us of the freedom to have information about what is happening at the moment in the biggest social, health and economic crisis that is taking place in Spain, since if in a year or two his successor exposes what is happening now, very little can be done. Focusing on the report, one of the points you have touched on has been immigration. He pointed out that the immigrant population is the demographic and economic salvation table of our country. Indeed, it is. These conclusions confirm what we advocate in VOX; when immigration is legal it is beneficial for Spain. And in that report it also states that when such immigration is illegal through the human trafficking mafia, it creates problems; problems that are reflected in the report it has presented for the years 2018 and 2019. It is also curious that the parties that most raise the flag in favor of illegal immigration are the same that chase any citizen of Spain - from Andalusia or Extremadura, for example - when they go to their communities to put problems; obstacles with the language, the persecution of Spanish. Even the friends of Bildu's protera even came to kill our relatives so that we wouldn't be in the Basque Country, and now you raise the flag here in favor of immigration! We know where they're going. In other points in the report you highlight facts that justify the complaint I made at the beginning of my speech. I refer to the numerous complaints about the installation in public buildings of anti-democratic and anti-Spanish ideological symbols in Catalonia. He makes special mention of public spaces of the Generality of Catalonia, such as schools and municipalities. In fact, you, Mr Fernández Marugán, say that there is a shameful school indoctrination in Catalonia. And in the face of this complaint, nothing happens; nothing happens because the Ombudsman's complaints clash head-on with the interests of Sánchez's partners. You also refer to the problems that older people have and today you have reminded them here. He placed special emphasis on the problem of loneliness experienced by our elderly people. And believe me, I think it is a problem that people who have sacrificed the most for that state of welfare we have enjoyed, who have worked the most for it, feel alone. It's very sad, it's the failure of this society. But if it is sad that these people feel alone, it is sadder that thousands of elderly people have died in solitude thanks to the negligent actions of this Social Communist Government, and you have said nothing about that. [[Give it up.]] As I have little time, I end up referring to many of the recommendations and complaints that you put forward, which can be summed up in the unequal treatment that Spaniards receive depending on the community in which they live; for example, in health care, education, financial aid, etc. These kinds of problems are going to continue to have them now and again, because if you want Article 14 of our Constitution to apply so that all Spaniards are equal before the law, I have to tell you that the policies emanating from this House are conditioned by the parties that are against the Spaniards, so those problems will remain. And, in fact, if we continue to feed those who want to break Spain, the institution of the Ombudsman of Spain has an expiry date. Thank you. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u29	Thank you, Mr. Alcaraz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Delgado Arce has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are a reminder of what you have been a defender of the people for no less than a decade, a great person, a great politician, Don Enrique Múgica Herzog, with whom I had the honour to discuss. [[Give it up.]] Mr. Francisco Fernández Marugán, defender of the people in office, who has been since July 2017 taking place from his position as first deputy to Doña Soledad Becerril - you have been in this situation of interinity for almost three years -, welcome to your home. This is your home, you were a brilliant Member during eight legislatures, integrated into the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and we had very good afternoons with you here in the Chamber. Presents today in plenary the management reports of the years 2018 and 2019, a total of twenty-four months, of which five correspond to the management of governments of the People's Party and the remaining nineteen to the management of the government of the Socialist Party in solitary, at first, and then with United We can other months. Before I go on to assess them, I must express to you our dismay that you did not appear in the Joint Commission on Relations with the Ombudsman to report on the complaints and citizens' concerns that came to your institution regarding the health crisis of COVID-19 and the recommendations and actions that the institution has taken. In Spain we have lived a hundred days of state of alarm, with important restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms. De facto rights such as those of movement, assembly, demonstration, worship, etc. have been suspended, and there have also been major changes in the functioning of public services managed by different administrations. By consulting some press release on the institution's website or through some news we have heard some of its activity in this matter, but because we consider it insufficient we ask from the People's Parliamentary Group, already on 8 April, to appear before the Joint Commission on Relations with the Ombudsman to inform him on this matter. The fact is that this was not possible because the majority of the groups in the Commission - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the United Podemos and the groups that have supported the investiture - refused to allow such an appearance to take place. And the argument is that we wait until June 2021 to know in the 2020 report what has happened in relation to this issue. This looks amazing to us. Mr Fernández Marugán, in the Congress, we have already been through the Commission for Reconstruction and other very important Commissions in this country: the Governor of the Banco de España, the Vice-President of the European Commission, hundreds of representatives of business, social organizations and associations, who have told us how they have seen, how they have experienced the crisis and, above all, how to deal with it, how to solve its consequences. I have to remind you - like the rest of you - that the Ombudsman is the High Commissioner of the General Courts, appointed by them precisely to defend the rights covered by the first title of the Constitution, overseeing, as you have rightly recalled, the activity of the Administration, but giving account to the General Courts. That is why I strongly ask you, Mr Fernández Marugán, not to wait until 2021 - which is what you said: when you touch - to present us with a report on the proceedings carried out in these hundred days. I think it is a requirement of the high office that you have, I insist, is a commissioner of the General Courts. I will quickly give some brushstrokes on some of the issues of these unstoppable reports. The issue that the Spanish are most concerned about is health care. Sanity is a basic, logical pillar of our institutional architecture. The general satisfaction with health has always been very important and very high in our country, but the reality is that, when we have had to deal with a pandemic of the magnitude that we have suffered, we have realized that, indeed, a great deal of political and social agreement is needed, as you proclaim, on this matter. The People's Party proposed a health pact, the so-called Cajal pact, with structural reforms and with the aim of agreeing on human resources policy as a fundamental pillar. We believe that this issue is a priority and we are going to support, as my colleague Ana Pastor does in the Commission, that this should go ahead. You have mentioned a very important issue that is the attention to our elderly people and, especially, what has to do with senior residences. We agree with most of the precisions you make. Indeed, the centres of the elderly, both public and private, are not health centres, they are resources for families who cannot provide them with the necessary care in their homes. Indeed, its users have the right to health care in the National Health System, but we believe that we need to go to a new model of socio-health residences, with broader and broader medical and nursing care. And the attention to the elderly must also be paid in their homes and residences, taking care of the multipathologies they normally have and the chronicity of many of them. It has been mentioned by some interveners - and it is also mentioned in their report - to the problem of prison facilities. It seems to us very good that we are talking about the prisoners and the inmates, but I will also refer here to the self-sacrificing officials of the Spanish prisons. They are directly responsible for ensuring that the prison system serves one of the main purposes of the custodial sentence, namely the reintegration and resocialization of prisoners. The People's Parliamentary Group presented a proposal for an organic law to amend the General Prison Law to recognize, precisely, the status of agents of authority to the officials of the prison corps in the exercise of their functions, and today I would like to reiterate this. You have also referred to the issue of housing policy. It is true that we have a problem of housing shortages, especially of rented housing, and difficulties for young people and people with limited resources to access it. We support a housing policy that allows access to it at affordable prices, but from the principles of legal certainty, flexibility in the supply of property and rent and the necessary modernisation of urban planning. I do not want to forget another issue that you have touched on in your report on housing, which is the problem of illegal occupation of housing, which must be dealt with by the adoption of an organic law guaranteeing the right to property, the security of persons and property and the necessary social coexistence. It could address many other issues of greatest interest, such as gender-based violence, minimum income for inclusion and a long time, but time in this rostrum is limited. Thank you very much, Mr. Ombudsman, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Delgado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Sánchez Escobar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u32	Madam President, Mr Advocate, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. Firstly, I would like to say that it is an honour for me to represent the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the first time in this plenary. The comprehensive and brilliant report presented to us by the defender of the two exercises does not cease to be a precise X-ray of the situation of our country, an X-ray of the constitutional rights of the citizen before the public administrations. The reports for the 2018 and 2019 financial years coincide on some topics and in them details us very in detail - worth the redundancy - some of the most important aspects, for example, health. The defender presents us with a battery of needs that health has had in recent years: the shortage of health resources in rural areas, the system of co-financing of medicines applied by the People's Party, the closure of the points of continued attention, which was also a consequence of the People's Government and which, fortunately, have reopened with the current Government by guaranteeing permanent and uninterrupted assistance. Clearly, following the pandemic, it has become clear that we must continue to incitate and bet totally on public and universal health and also, of course, on public services. That's why it's time to act. As the time for applause in our homes and balconies has passed, it is time to recognize the brilliant work of all our health and public services, equipping them with tools, improving their training and, of course, equipping the centers with the necessary staff for a perfect functioning that will ultimately be the best service to citizens as the main objective. With regard to minimum income, the defender is concerned about the inequality of the territory, its coverage, intensity and adequacy. In order to balance these differences, it calls for an integrated system of minimum incomes to be structured at the state level. Well, this Government has made life-saving minimum income possible, which reduces poverty and promotes social inclusion. It has been done to combat simply economic vulnerability, which, as you know, generates a vicious circle of inequality. As for senior residences, an issue that some colleagues have already touched upon, the Ombudsman already in the 2018 and 2019 exercises believed that regulatory reforms should be addressed to better guarantee the rights of our seniors in the residences. It is a matter of dealing with it and, moreover, of urgency in view of what has happened, for example, in the 475 geriatric centres in the Community of Madrid. Mr Burgueño, Mrs Ayuso's adviser, who already knows everything he has said, could inform us of this. I do not say it, he says; it has been disastrous to operate in these residences, in these geriatrics, although then it seems to be the fault of the whole central government. Of course, all of this makes it essential to change the model of geriatric residences within our country's reconstruction plan; it is time, but we have to do it among all of us, it is not worth blaming the government and the insults that you transfer us day by day, it is time to remarry and fight for all the residences of the elderly. As for gender-based violence, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I have to tell you that since 2003 until today there have been 1054 murdered women, Mrs Olona, by men, by men - you know what men are, on Tuesday you explained it to us here -, and since 2013 to here, 37 minors, girls and boys. [[applause]] It is a terrible fact and an unacceptable situation that these macho murders continue to occur. Let us therefore continue to work on the important and necessary State Pact against Gender Violence. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, on this subject I just want to tell you that you are neither trained nor informed, and the information you have is distorted by those loudspeakers and those media like you. [[Give it up.]] However, and with this I conclude - of gender-based violence we could talk much more - on Tuesday, here in plenary, it was well reflected what is the commitment of our parliamentary group, which is nothing other than to combat the negationism of gender-based violence in its Machist discourses. With regard to education, another of the fundamental pillars, problems in obtaining scholarships and assistance in the provision of complementary services such as transport or dining have continued to motivate the greatest number of complaints to this institution. Fernández Marugán calls for quality education in which the education system is adapted to the model of inclusive education, that is, education on an equal footing. Well, unlike the right, the current government prioritizes the investment of scholarships to ensure equal opportunities, with an investment of 386 million, which represents 22% increase, the highest in the last decade; it is 19 billion euros that are really worth to recover the scholarship as a subjective right linked to family income and not to academic performance. With regard to transport, the defender tells us that in the provision of public transport services in rural areas, demand must prevail in view of the economic benefit. Of course, it is a way of fighting for emptied Spain; if we give it resources, logically, we will be contributing so that this does not happen. It also tells us that the poor railway infrastructure needs to be further improved. What a better example than Extremadura. I have been suffering for six years, with the People's Party government, and in the four years of José Antonio Monago. Fortunately, the current Government of Spain is reversing the situation with strong investments, both in high-speed works and in the improvement of the conventional train. Finally, in housing, I would simply like to recall article 47 of the Constitution: All Spaniards have the right to decent and adequate housing. Well, the Government is already working on this on the basis of a regulation of two well-differentiated State plans: on the one hand, the State Housing Rehabilitation Plan and, on the other, the Rent Housing Plan, which is focused mainly on young people and low-income people. Ladies and gentlemen, the vast majority of the issues raised in Mr Marugán's report - and I finish, Madam President - point out the relevance of the consequences of the cutback policies during Mariano Rajoy's years of government and how the coalition government has worked, works and will continue to work to reverse them. These reports must serve us to improve the weaknesses of our system, to expand justice and social cohesion and, ultimately, to know the needs of the Spanish people. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing very difficult times, and in the memory of the citizenry it will be those who fought for their country as the first objective and who day after day, both in the media and in the plenary and in the control sessions, all they did was not be loyal to the government of the nation, which would be the right thing to power among all of us to get our country out of this health, economic and labour misery in times of democracy. Let us abandon the noise, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of Spain. I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u33	Yes, Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u34	I'm done, President. This isn't a circus or a TV set. It is enough, ladies and gentlemen of the right, to make your palm trees laugh with their disqualifications over and over again at everyone who thinks differently from you. Here we come to work seriously, politely and with respect - I repeat: serious, politely and with respect; I don't know if you know what that is -, more than anything respect for all the Spaniards who have put us here to fix all their problems, not to generate them more. All we have to do is go by Mr Marugán's hand. Mr Marugán, you have the Socialist Parliamentary Group here to work alongside you. We thank you for your excellent work. Follow that line, which is helping our country in a very positive way. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u35	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Thank you very much, people's defender, for your presentation of the 2018 and 2019 reports and thanks to all the team that accompanies you. See you soon. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] The session shall continue in a confidential manner. Please close the doors and evict the stands. The meeting was suspended in a public capacity. The session shall begin in a secret manner.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the point relating to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 21/2020 of 9 June of urgent measures of prevention, containment and coordination to address the health crisis caused by COVID-19. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Health has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, ladies and gentlemen, I rise.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am writing to you to request the validation of Royal Decree-Law 21/2020 of 9 June of urgent measures of prevention, containment and coordination to address the health crisis caused by the COVID-19, a royal decree which has essentially two objectives. On the one hand, we must equip ourselves with the necessary preventive measures against COVID-19 at this stage, which we have called a new normality and which we have recently launched. On the other hand, establish legal and operational instruments that allow us to continue to provide a common and coordinated response by the health authorities to the virus. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the sacrifices we have had to make to achieve this new normality. Without a doubt, the months we have left behind have been months of great pain and renunciation. That's why I'm going to be allowed my first words to be in memory of all the people who have died because of COVID-19 and to transfer all our support and affection to their families and loved ones. As you know, on the 16th of July we will have the opportunity to pay tribute in his memory that all of them deserve. I would also like to convey a message of encouragement to all people affected by the disease right now, to whom we all wish a speedy recovery. At the same time, I would like to reiterate once again our gratitude and appreciation for the unprecedented effort made by our healthcare professionals in circumstances of great tension and enormous complexity. They have been an example for society as a whole. It is a thank you that I extend to all the workers of the essential services, from transport to trade or cleaning and, in turn, to the men and women who make up our Security Forces and our Armed Forces, who have contributed with great dedication to our country's response to the virus. And, of course, I would like to express the gratitude of the entire Government to all of our citizens, who have largely confined themselves and have complied with the measures that we have been adopting all these weeks. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said to you, we have left behind months of great pain and pain, in which, in addition to facing the virus, we have had to face the enormous economic and social impact of the disease, but we have also witnessed at this time the great capacity of our country and our society to move forward and cope with the virus. Thanks to this collective effort, which has been prolonged during the fourteen weeks of the state of alarm with very drastic and severe measures, we have overcome the worst moments of the pandemic and achieved our goal: to bend the curve and stop the transmission of the virus. When the state of alarm was declared, the transmission of the virus grew weekly over 35%; by the end of April this increase was already 5%, and by the end of May it was reduced to 1.5%. Today it is below 1%, which does not mean that the virus has disappeared. We have been able to protect the health of our citizens and the capacities of our health system in this first invitation, yes, but we know that the danger is still there and we must take all necessary precautions and measures until we can have an effective treatment or a safe vaccine. In short, we cannot throw away what we have achieved among all in the face of the greatest health emergency we have known in the last century. That is why, I insist, we must be very aware that the virus is still there and that it continues to cause outbreaks located in our country. It is also provoking them in the rest of the European countries, despite the control measures put in place, and is spreading very rapidly across different parts of the world, especially on the American continent. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, we needed to have the measures set out in this royal decree-law in order to deal with what we have called new normality with guarantees, and to have them urgently, in order to avoid the risks that could arise from the loss of automatic validity of the measures of the state of alarm, both in the communities that were already in phase 3 from the 8th of June, whose governments could choose to move to the new normality, and in the whole of the country after the state of alarm ended. In short, it was inescapable to have the preventive, containment and coordination measures that should allow us to continue to control the pandemic until the end of the health crisis was officially declared. To this end, this royal decree-law establishes, first, a general duty of caution and protection, in order to strengthen preventive behaviour throughout the population and, secondly, a series of urgent measures of prevention, containment and coordination, aimed at guaranteeing the right to life and the protection of health as long as the health crisis caused by COVID-19 persists. Therefore, what we do through this royal decree-law is to be prepared and equip ourselves with the tools necessary to continue to deal with the virus. I would like to stress that its elaboration has been possible thanks to the work carried out by all the ministries involved and that we have also had the active participation of the health authorities of the Autonomous Communities. In fact, the text of the Royal Decree-Law was dealt with within the framework of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System and we sent it in advance so that each autonomous community could make its contributions available. Subsequently, it was also discussed at the Conference of Presidents. For this reason, I would like once again to thank the Autonomous Communities for their collaboration, their work and their institutional loyalty in this case and over the previous months, in which we have had to face the toughest moments of the pandemic and, subsequently, when we have co-directed the process of transition to the new normality. By entering more specifically into the measures contained in this royal decree, I would like to highlight the following. Firstly, this standard contains the basic measures of prevention and hygiene, insisting on the need to continue to observe the three general rules that I recall once again: the maintenance of the interpersonal distance of at least 1.5 meters, the compulsory use of masks on the public road, in closed spaces for public use or open to the public when the safety distance cannot be maintained, as well as in transport, and the reinforced hygiene in public and private spaces. Secondly, specific prevention and hygiene measures are envisaged in the working environment, such as job management or shift organisation to avoid agglomerations, and the same applies to social service centres, commercial establishments, hotels and tourist accommodation or hospitality and catering activities. Thirdly, with regard to residential centres for older persons or persons with disabilities, the Royal Decree stipulates that they must be coordinated with the health system of each autonomous community and also provides that contingency plans must be in place for the early identification of possible cases between residents, workers and their contacts. Fourthly, in the field of sports, the competence of the Higher Sports Council is recognized to apply these preventive measures in certain professional competitions, once heard by the organizer, the Ministry of Health and the Autonomous Communities. Fifthly, with regard to public transport of State competence subject to public contracts or public service obligations, whether by road, rail or sea, the volume of occupation to be established should be respected in order to avoid the risk of contagion. The obligation to collect contact information from passengers, which must be available for a minimum of four weeks after the journey, is laid down in the assigned seat transport services in order to be able to trace the contacts. Sixthly, with regard to measures in the field of medicines and health products, action is being taken to ensure the supply of medicines considered essential in the management of COVID-19, and the Ministry of Health is also empowered to order that essential medicines be produced as a matter of priority if necessary. At the same time, on a temporary basis, measures are maintained to bring the medication closer to the patient in the field of hospital pharmacy for those whose clinical situation so requires. Finally, measures are also incorporated to ensure that masks and surgical gowns, as well as hydroalcoholic solutions and gels are manufactured and made available at an appropriate pace to meet existing demand. Seventhly, with regard to early detection and epidemiological surveillance, the obligation to collect, process and transmit information to the Ministry of Health is maintained in order to have the necessary data to assess the situation and to direct the control actions of COVID-19 and also to be able to take appropriate measures. With regard to early detection, the health services of the Autonomous Communities should ensure that all suspected cases of COVID-19 are carried out as soon as possible from the onset of symptoms, and all this information should be transmitted to the Ministry of Health in time and form. Eighthly, measures are laid down to ensure the capacities of the health system. The obligation of the Autonomous Communities to have sufficient health professionals and contingency plans before the COVID-19 is established. All this information of assistance capacity must also be sent to the Ministry of Health. I would like to recall that the communities have already provided information on early detection, diagnostic capacity and assistance capacity during the process of transition to the new normality to move forward at each stage. This is something that makes all sense, as these capabilities are critical for being able to detect and, if necessary, cope with any other outbreak that may occur. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to materialise all these issues, the Royal Decree-Law amends several rules, although I would like to highlight two of them. On the one hand, the Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System of 2003 with the aim of strengthening coordination in public health and introducing this duty of information from the Autonomous Communities to the Ministry of Health in emergency situations for public health; on the other hand, the consolidated text of the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicines and Sanitary Devices, with the aim of entrusting the Interministerial Commission on Prices of Medicinal Products with the adoption of the procedure to be followed for fixing prices. Finally, I would like to point out that the validity of this royal decree-law and, therefore, of all the measures it includes will be maintained until the Government declares the end of the health crisis motivatedly, after listening to the Autonomous Communities at the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System and following the report of the Centre for the Coordination of Health Alerts and Emergencies. For all that, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for your support to validate this rule, as it is essential to articulate our response to COVID in the new normality, because it facilitates prevention and action in the event of possible outbreaks of COVID-19 and because it contributes to the coordination of all health administrations. All this through a set of measures that are necessary, that are proportionate and that have been elaborated with the participation and contributions of the autonomous communities and, therefore, with a high degree of consensus. I would like to convey to you that the Government appreciates the possibility that the measures contained in this royal decree-law will be expanded with the input of all parliamentary groups in the event that the House votes in favour of its handling as a bill. If so, our wish would be for it to be done as quickly and as urgently as possible, so as to have a framework for dealing with possible outbreaks as soon as possible. Apart from the positions and options that we all legitimately have, we should agree that further work is needed to prevent and deal with the virus beyond the state of alarm. And I believe that our citizens, who have given an exemplary lesson in their behaviour during this crisis, deserve and hope that today we will be able to reach a broad agreement on this royal decree-law, so that our country will have the necessary tools to keep the virus under control. I trust that this can be the case and that we can continue to work in a coordinated way with the only objective we have had at all times: to protect the health of our citizens. Thank you so much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u38	Thank you very much, Minister of Health. [[Give it up.]] He has requested the use of the turn against the VOX Parliamentary Group. I have the floor on behalf of that group, Mr Steegmann Olmedillas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u39	With all due respect, Madam President. Let me make this my first intervention from this rostrum in memory of those who died from the Wuhan Coronavirus epidemic. I also pay tribute to my fellow doctors and other essential professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, we are announcing that we are going to vote against the validation of Royal Decree-Law 21/2020, because it is a new act of political propaganda, and its explanatory statement, an inadmissible claim in defense of the negligent action of the Government. This decree affects the essential content of rights and freedoms and, therefore, cannot be regulated in this way, ladies and gentlemen. The imposition on all citizens of a general duty of care substantially alters the general regime of rights and freedoms and must be done by ordinary law. The Government does not prove that there is an extraordinary and urgent need, in accordance with the judgement of the Constitutional Court 61/2018. The Royal Decree-Law is a relevant instrument if situations are difficult to foresee and require an immediate rule developed within a shorter time frame than that required by a normal or urgent procedure for the parliamentary processing of laws. The European Commission, on 15 April 2020, has already adopted a road map, so that the Government has had more than two months to process it as an ordinary law. The plan of decontainment and the finalization of the state of alarm and its perverse effects were predictable and constitutionally enforceable, so that it could have been treated as ordinary law, after free and democratic debate. The Government presumes diligence. He says that from the international declaration of pandemic to the declaration of the state of alarm the events took place very quickly - yes, three days - but, ladies and gentlemen, history is not so, history is another. [[ccccccccc]] The World Health Organization, an accomplice to the Chinese communist regime, delayed the declaration of international health emergency in 15 fateful days and, in the end, declared it on 31 January 2020. You've had a lot of time. They say that this royal decree-law is based on the very constitutional competence of the State in external health, foundations and general coordination of health. The same competition they had in January 2020, when our group urged them to protect the health care workers and when on 6 February we urged them to close the borders with the infectious country called China. They disheartened the Italian alarms. They did not declare the epidemic in Spain at least since 27 February. If they had then, we would have reduced the death rate by 60%; now the number of dead is close to 45 000. It is a pity that the seats of this part of the Council of Ministers are empty, because part of my speech is addressed to them. It is the health professionals who have saved lives, not the government, who have been a glue of the infection and who hide their incompetence by saying that they followed Europe's warnings. Europe has clearly demonstrated its lack of coordination and slowness, but you have taken a long time to react to your already late advice. They had to do their little party and, attention!, now prepare another one. They did not fulfill their duty to care for the Spaniards - so it has been collected in our complaint - and they will have to pay for it. [[The Lord]] We challenge the totalitarian concept of new normality. Organic Law 4/81 provides that the duration of the state of alarm must be strictly indispensable to ensure the restoration of normalcy, not to invent a new one in which we are fifty thousand Spanish less, sicker, poorer, more frightened and more disunited because of the Government. In its new normality will Spain's contributions to the World Health Organization, WHO, a genuine body serving the authorities of the Chinese Communist Government, continue to be maintained? We therefore call on the Government of Spain to promote international action to demand the responsibilities of the Chinese Communist Government and its accomplices in the World Health Organization, and that Spain not take another euro from the Spanish pocket to that organization, which has proved to be as incompetent and negligent as this Government. The Constitutional Court will consider our application for amparo against Royal Decree 473/2020, which declared the state of alarm, which constituted a restriction of freedoms of all kinds, covering a state of unmatched emergency in Europe, a house arrest, a freezing of democracy, which blocked the constitutional organs and powers. The confinement paralyzed our nation and caused the epidemic to hit us more economically than our neighbours, with huge losses of income, workers, families and businesses. The Government has left them all in the open. VOX proposed paying the salaries of all workers who had been prohibited from working, and more than 20% of those for essential services, while guaranteeing the self-employed their earnings in the previous quarter. They didn't. They have destroyed the country's economic fabric, thousands of jobs, thousands of businesses, with their indecisions, those of the absent government, and you too, Minister, are unable to offer protection measures, and with the inexplicable contribution of Minister Garzón you have condemned yourself to the tourism sector. They are already beginning to say the progress that the epidemic has been for climate change! Attention, workers in the automotive sector, go get you! As VOX argues, since our rejection of the first extension of the state of alarm, this royal decree proves that the house arrest decreed by the Government was not necessary after the first fifteen days and that it has been used politically. It was sufficient to implement article 65 of Law 16/2003 on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System. He was able to do it in January and you can do it now. In fact, the alarm was imposed and sustained because you were unable to adjust the available health resources. The Government has also failed in descalation, with arbitrary, chaotic decontainment, with no reliable and objective data, allowing neither citizens nor businesses to plan their activities. And the criteria to be applied have not been transparently known, yielding again to the demands of the Basque separatist party, for example. The Government therefore recognized its failure and shifted responsibility to self-government. The proof is that, having reached phase 2, it was decided that the competent authority delegated for the measures of phase 3 would go to the Presidency of the Autonomous Community, thus yielding to the wishes of the PNV, the Republican Left of Catalonia, the illegal Torra and, of course, Mr Núñez Feijóo. It is even said that it will be the autonomous communities that can decide to overcome phase 3, so that the Government leaves its main role and responsibility. Their surrender to autonomy reflects not only weakness, but incompetence. The State of Autonomy is a failed state of confusion that has been unable to establish channels of communication of epidemiological information and that does not know, can or perhaps is not very interested in counting either the infected or the dead. Spain needs a united and strong health care - as VOX proposes - and not a weak state in the hands of an incompetent government. [[Give it up.]] It is a cowardice - I repeat, it is a cowardice - and a recognition of failure to transfer responsibility to the Spanish and companies, as the government does in this royal decree. By way of example, the Government transfers to companies the establishment of the necessary protocols to guarantee medicines and health products. It also states that all citizens must take the necessary measures to prevent the spread of COVID, as well as exposure to such risks, by imposing sanctions on them. And what sanctions should we impose, ladies and gentlemen, on a government that failed to fulfil its constitutional duty to care for the health of all Spaniards? What sanctions have been imposed on a government that left unprotected health care workers, police without masks, without protective equipment, not to mention our elders? We know this: the answer is in a court of instruction if there is justice in this world. And in economic terms, have the costs of health measures that require companies been calculated? Is Aena entitled to recover those costs and the other companies or self-employed not? What about telework, who's going to make up for the expenses? The third additional provision deals with guarantees for a maximum amount of EUR 28 billion, but do the Spanish know the conditionalities required for companies to obtain such financing? And, in addition, at good times. How many of the 100 000 companies that have disappeared could have been saved if, as we said, they had injected liquidity into these companies? Let's move on to health measures. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the epidemic continues; it continues. With the above measures it seems that you want to prolong normality and keep it on low heat. Apart from the distance of the meter and a half, what other health measures does the Government offer if it does not even properly regulate the use of masks? What about children under the age of six, what does the ambiguous concept of adequate hygiene measures mean? Have you not had time to define a single epidemiological database and are now in a hurry, or what should be on this database? Where is the PCR for close contacts? What control measures are to be established, Minister, at airports and at borders? Are they going to be the gateway to a more dangerous mutated virus? Once again, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is unable to establish microbiological protection controls and this is fundamentally damaging to Spain. We're going to lose 12.7% of GDP.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u40	Your Honor, you must go through with this, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u41	Excuse me, Your Honor, I'll be right there. Moreover, it does so with a document that does not sign any Spanish experts. Again the open door policy with China when we know that it lied to us, that it keeps lying to us and that it's going to lie to us? Ladies and gentlemen - and I finish, Mr President - the weak and genuine Europe before the Chinese tyrant is the problem and only a strong Spain is the solution. The Government has not only been illegitimate since its conception, but has continued to be irresponsible. And they say they don't want to leave a Spaniard behind, pompously sometimes, melifluously others...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u42	Your Honor, please go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u43	I'll be right out. Indeed, the dead are not behind but ahead, and looking at them, and neither are their families going to be behind, or the infected or unemployed workers. No, they're not gonna be behind, they're gonna be in front, and VOX, with them. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u44	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all, Mr Gimeno, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u45	President, given the limited time available, I shall speak from the seat. We will continue to guide us, or try to do so at least, by the majority scientific criterion and calling for personal responsibility because the crisis has not really ended. We must be vigilant and vigilant. Yes, we would like to highlight, now that it seems at least overtaken the toughest phase, two important aspects or two issues that have highlighted this pandemic. On the one hand, it has shown for us the weakness of the development model system that we have followed, since all the problems have acuteed precisely by the model of concentration of large cities and, on the other hand, it has also shown that we continue with the vices of treatment and non-differentiated legislation between large municipalities, the rural environment and small and medium-sized cities. Many of our compatriots have had to endure very exaggerated mobility restrictions precisely because they are designed for large cities, such as Madrid and Barcelona, and have to live in villages of fifty, one hundred or two hundred inhabitants. It's just that. We will support the validation of the royal decree and we will also support it as a bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u47	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr President. We are going to vote in favour of the validation of this decree-law because we believe that the measures it contains of a general nature are adequate and have also served as a basis for the decrees that the Autonomous Community of Cantabria itself has developed at this stage. It must also be said that the Regionalist Party of Cantabria was born to defend Cantabria's interests, but we are also a State and on matters of general interest, such as the measures taken in this pandemic, we have supported the Government in turn, which had the main responsibility in this matter, and that is why we adopted the Decree of Declaration of the initial state of alarm and all the extensions. However, that does not mean that the PRC is satisfied with the current government in its relationship with Cantabria. Yesterday I had the opportunity to speak to the Minister of Justice in that rostrum and I hope that both the President and the other ministers have taken note of the matter. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u48	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u49	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. First of all, of course, our recognition and our memory above all to all the people who have died over these months, to their families, remembering once again how hard those days were when they could not say goodbye to their loved ones, and also to all the people who are still sick and are trying to recover and to those who seemed to have overcome it and who, unfortunately, have consequences resulting from this harsh illness. Having said that, I will point out that we are going to support the decree, just as we have supported other decrees that have been brought to this House, although we understand that the next day we must regulate it; we will also vote in favour of it being treated as a law, as some groups have requested, so that appropriate contributions can be made. But we are particularly concerned about the security of the future and we are concerned that we understand that the Government has a rather daunting credibility. We must not forget that it was a January 31 when we were told the already famous phrase of in Spain there will be one or two cases and there is no need to worry, nor must we forget that it was a month and a half later more or less when it was said that it was unnecessary to have masks and wear them. We are in June, more than 40,000 dead later, people with names and surnames who have died, and the whole population is forced to wear masks. Therefore, the Government's credibility with regard to the analyses it makes is equal to zero. In this regard, we are concerned about what the Government will do to move citizens who can be calm, that if there is another outbreak it will be able to control and that this will not mean stopping all activity in Spain again. Is the government prepared for an outbreak, as it is beginning to occur in some places? That's the question and I expect an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u50	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the Canary Coalition has been responsible throughout the pandemic. We have supported all the government's proposals in the Canary Islands and here the central government, even if we liked some more and some less, even if things were missing. We have made contributions, we were the first to talk about ERTE and the need for extensions on health issues. And criticisms have been made in private because we believed that citizenship at the moment wanted union and we could not transmit any more tension or anguish to so many people. It's over today. We're starting another process and I'm only going to deal with two aspects. The first is the topic of the airports - which I told you before, at the entrance -. I have to deny the President of Madrid and the President of Catalonia because the risk is not in Madrid and Catalonia. The protocols that follow in compliance with the European protocol and from outside the European Community flights that arrive in Barajas and El Prat are a glue to the rest of Spain of the people who transit in Barajas and who do not reach the point that is at the exit of the terminal. I think that has to be resolved and that it is urgent to do so. In addition, Aena must be tightened when she says that on July 1 she will already have the personnel that are needed in cleaning and protection. That can't be. I'm running out of time and I'm going to move on to the main topic I wanted to tell you today. I checked on my arrival on Monday and a gentleman asked me where I came from. I told him from Tenerife, and he let me in without going through the other control, he didn't ask me for the boarding pass. But if you come Frankfurt-Madrid, Madrid-Tenerife, you do not comply with the European protocol. If you come from Brazil and don't leave at Terminal 4 and head to Tenerife, Balearics or Seville, either. I believe that at the satellite terminal it is where the controls of international protocols must be carried out and Terminal 4 must be left only for domestic flights. That's how we'd avoid that problem. On the issue of Aena's savings, I would like to add that the bathrooms are disgusting, have in ERTE half of the insurance companies and the control staff of...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u52	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u53	I'm done. You can't wait until day 1, you have to make emergency hirings through companies because a week of uncontrollability for lack of personnel puts this country at risk. All I have to say is that we will support him again today. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u55	Good morning, President. Minister, during these months, what we have seen in the health measures that have been taken is, on the one hand, the fragility of the Spanish economy and, on the other hand, the power that certain employers have in the decisions that have been taken, in which they have not been taken and at the time when certain decisions have been taken, often to the detriment of the prudence that the exclusively scientific criteria of public health recommended. We are talking, for example, about unemployment, at the time, of work; it took far longer than it should have been, and it was taken long before what some scientific criteria recommended, and putting responsibility on the workers. I remember the measures that were advised: when you come home, don't get too close to your family members, etc. The same is true of the measures of the descalade in which the arrival of tourists who have been able to go to Mallorca and the islands before people who, for example, have relatives there has been advanced. Yesterday Minister Calviño said that the Spanish economy is a very open economy, very linked to the countries of our environment. This is an euphemism to refer to an economy dependent on precisely sectors such as tourism. It's a reality. For example, before he spoke of Mallorca, we already know that about 35% of the island's GDP depends on tourism, but the pandemic was also a time to rethink these economic weaknesses and the power of the bosses, as he had previously proposed. I'm done. Thinking of a hypothetical resurgence, we propose that the re-centralisation that has proved futile should not return, in addition to our rejection of it politically; that people should be trusted more without the need to distribute fines to mansalva, as happened; that clear sanitary instructions should be given, that it is much more necessary than political slogans as we will come out stronger, that this serves nothing to combat the virus, and that, in relation to these sanitary instructions, decisions should be made listening exclusively to scientific committees and not to business groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u56	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] The next item is Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u57	Egun on, eskerrik asko, president. First of all, Mr. Illa, I want to thank you. I would like to thank you and your team for the attitude and work they have done during these weeks; that you have appeared every week; that you have gathered and answered our doubts, criticisms and proposals. We know it hasn't been easy weeks, but you've listened to us and listened to us. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, throughout this state of alarm, Euskal Herria Bildu has maintained a responsible attitude, an attitude that meant not endangering the health of citizens, an attitude that even went beyond the logic that our group could be assumed with this government. And that is why we assume that the powers of a pen were suspended, that our self-government was suspended from one day to the next, and we have assumed that, although we did not like that form of action, that of the Government, nor the contempt for our institutions, we should do so. Today the government comes here with a decree drafted and agreed with the right, again. Mr. Illa, your government's excuse during the state of alarm extensions to seek support from the right was that measures were at risk that saved lives and we had to accept it. Today this is no longer the case, because all the measures envisaged in this decree - even the most restrictive ones - in most cases have already been defined, approved and applied in most of the territories, also in ours, in the Basque Autonomous Community and in Navarre. The pretext was to agree with the right the need to ensure the state of alarm, not to leave a single option that could fall. Well, let's give it up, but what's the excuse now? Now what's the alibi? The pact with the right is no longer a necessity of your Government, Mr Illa, it is a desire, a worrying one. Today, some of those who make it possible to form this government will vote no. Euskal Herria Bildu too will vote no and we will do it out of responsibility once again. They will remember that while we allowed alarm extensions, we warned the government several times to stop looking to the right, to work, to take care of and to support the progressive majority in this House. They ignored and continued on their adventure with the orange wing of the Columbus trio. Yes, with those who say that President Sánchez is a traitor, that he is illegitimate and that they have demanded his resignation, we do not know how many times. Those are the new traveling companions. We have said it and repeated it, we have warned many times that the right and its policies and the left and our policies are incompatible and that if they continue to seek and agree with the right they would lose support in the majority and have ignored it. We have had patience, but patience, ours, our understanding, also has a limit. And today we say to you clearly and with the greatest roundness that so, no, that if you continue there there will be no progressive path to go and, if not, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, be brave, be honest, be honest and tell this House, tell your voters, the citizens, who prefer the right. Tell them, tell them they have a new travel companion who gives them a new majority, yes, but that new majority will be based on cuts and neoliberalism. Tell the millions of workers, tell them that they will go hand in hand with those who want to take away more rights and make their living conditions worse. Tell them they're going to rule again with those who don't bet clearly on either the rights or the LGBTI struggle. To refugees and immigrants, tell them that this government will continue to negotiate with the IBEX party. Mr Illa, I say this to you with disgust and with some pity, with regret because the thousands and thousands of people who will suffer the policies that will be adopted if they continue to agree with the right will pay for it, because citizenship deserves to be told the truth and this road to break bridges with the left and build them with the right will only lead to more cuts and precariousness. Look, we came here with three objectives, with a clear country agenda shared by the social majority of our country, an agenda that, from dialogue and agreement, can ensure respect for the plurinational character of the state and the right of Basque citizens to decide freely and democratically their future, an agenda that defends the rights and interests of the social and popular majorities above capital and large companies, that defends the dignity of the workers, also those of Euskal Herria, but also being solidarity and solidarity with the workers of the rest of the state and an agenda for peace and coexistence that ends with the exceptional policy that still applies in prison policy today. And all this is simply incompatible with the right. There is a way to go, there is that way to go from dialogue and agreement on the left, but, seeing its latest decisions, we see little will to go through it on the part of this Government. We said this: we will judge this Government not by words, but by facts. There is only one option for advancing progressive policies and the path they have taken is not the one that will lead to it. Think about it because you will have to decide with whom, because on that one who depends what policies you want to do from here on out. And I repeat again: combining the left and our policies with the neoliberal right and its policies will be impossible. One last clarification: gentlemen of the government, gentlemen of the PSOE, do not be tempted to place this warning that we give today in an electoral context because for us there are things much more important than elections, which are the rights and dignity of people. I hope so for you too. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u58	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u59	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, Mr. Illa, this decree has been negotiated by you and I for a few days, we've already reached an agreement and, therefore, we said we were going to vote yes. We are therefore going to vote in favour, but I would like to make a few comments. Firstly, about the provisional nature of the legislation we are discussing, and that is that this legislation should be designed to disappear as quickly as possible. There are some ad hoc amendments to some laws, but it is the least; the royal decree-law has to tend to disappear as soon as possible. Therefore, in our view, it makes no sense to treat it as a draft law, or much less, unless it is intended to be used to make parallel amendments in greater detail, although it does not seem to us to be the appropriate instrument or, of course, we would agree. We have had long conversations with the Government throughout the state of alarm, we have been modulating the different decrees and the different extensions. Contrary to what the representative of Bildu has said, I have never accepted nor will I accept now nor will I accept in the future any decline in the competences that Euskadi and the Navarra community have, nor will I ever accept an alleged disregard for Basque or Navarra institutions, which, in my opinion, has not existed, and coexistence has been difficult on many occasions and we have had strong discrepancies, because I believe that in the end we have been modulating, as I also believe that this decree is reasonably modulated. In fact, even Article 3 seems to me to express it very well. Basically, what the decree does is to keep the competences in the hands of the institutions that already have them in the usual jurisdictional distribution, without a special situation due to health emergency; thus, the competences are maintained. Nor can article 3, as some wish to do, be interpreted in any other way, because the only thing that it says is that, exceptionally, and when the reasons of extraordinary gravity or urgency so require, the General Administration of the State shall promote, coordinate or adopt, in accordance with its powers, as many measures as are necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this royal decree-law with the cooperation of the Autonomous Communities, that is, in accordance with its powers; not with any person who grants it this decree, but with its powers, which it already has. In this sense, I think the decree is balanced, because it is true that it represents a common minimum, which basically is reduced to the use of masks and the meter and half distance, and then each institution has its competences, point. The areas that will necessarily have to be regulated are advanced, but, basically, according to all the articles, in reference to social services, commercial establishments, etc., are the competent authorities, the autonomous communities to which they belong. It is also true, however, that what is being done is to identify mechanisms for the rapid exchange of information and early detection of the epidemic, which is basically what it is, or on measures relating to medicines and pharmaceutical delivery, that is, to ensure more effective collaboration and better detection and to stop a possible outbreak of the epidemic through collaborative and communication measures. It is true that specific amendments to the law are envisaged, but they are minimal and basically aimed at this end, that is, the activation of designs and plans of strategies of action to deal with health emergencies, which was already apparent in the law, although on this occasion we talk about activating those plans if necessary. However, I would like to draw attention to what may come in the future, the possible development of the processing as a draft law of this decree, especially the drafts that have been submitted to the Commission for Reconstruction in the field of health. Those who seek by means of legislative changes to re-centralize or mediatize the statutory powers, the autonomous powers of the health system will not count on our support and, of course, we will oppose with all our strength, because the status of autonomy can be changed with the mechanisms that appear in it, but it is not worth doing so through laws that dilute what the statute itself says. There is often talk of coordination - I think we have pointed out some collaborative measures and data exchange that I think are very well thought out in this decree - but I think that the Government itself should perhaps think first. There is talk of coordination and collaboration with the autonomous communities, but the same as the Ministry of Health has weakened the Government itself by making the Carlos III Institute of Health dependent on the Ministry of Science, that the Food Security Agency is in Consumption, that those areas of the law of dependency are in a vice-presidency, not having, in fact, competences in matters of dependence, and, by the way, by making a law but not complying with it as far as the State is concerned, which is paying it; but, in addition, a kind of competence is assigned in another department, in a vice-presidency, and then there is the military pharmacy, for example, which has also come into play at some point in the state of alarm, and there is Defence. So first I think it is the Government itself that should reorganize if it wants to strengthen the Ministry of Health, but from its own internal organization. I'm closing up. The solution is not state agencies to tutiplen, as pointed out in the drafts, nor an interterritorial council acting as a supraautonomous government. It makes no sense, let alone create a subcommission in this area of health, when we already have the Health Committee; what a mania to create bodies. Therefore, Minister - and I can sum up - we have reached agreements during this period, not without difficulties on many occasions. We believe that this is a balanced decree, which respects the competences of the autonomous communities, and we will support it in that regard. However, I insist, I hope that its processing will not be used to go to what is not the subject of this decree, and it has a very specific name: provisional measures for an interim situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u60	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum.]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u61	Thank you, President. Good afternoon now, ladies and gentlemen. Today we come to the process of validating a royal decree law that is called prevention, containment and coordination in the face of the health crisis and that the Government has wanted to launch media as the decree law of the new normality. In short, normality is normality, there is neither old nor new. The dictionary says that normality means being bound by the norm; it is something very typical of the rule of law and, of course, being bound by the norm is neither old nor new, it is compulsory. That is why we prefer to call it the Royal Decree-Law of Plan B, because, since we negotiated with the Government the fifth extension of the state of alarm, we told him that it was necessary already to think about and design mechanisms so that, if the rebounds came, it would not be necessary to decree the state of alarm again and we would have enough legal tools to be able to deal with these rebounds. They will remember when the President of the Government said that there was only plan A, with the alarm a, but that there was no plan B. If there was plan B and you had to think about it by the time it ended, as fortunately the state of alarm ended. It had to be prepared, because, indeed, everyone now agrees, despite the debates that have taken place in this House, that confinement, which depended on the state of alarm, is the only medicine to combat the virus until the moment when the vaccine exists; only in the state of alarm, which my political party in a responsible way supported on the six occasions of the extension. All Spain has fulfilled its part of the deal, all Spain has been responsible, for the vast majority, and, therefore, the first thing is to thank the Spaniards. This royal decree-law and its object, which the Minister of Health has outlined, is part of these agreements with Citizens. In addition, we have to acknowledge that we have been given the opportunity to participate in its preparation, in its drafting as a draft royal decree-law and, therefore, we will vote in favour. We have managed to get the Government to accept many technical improvements in this royal decree-law with the sole purpose of being able to combat the rebounds. But there is no point in this rule if we do not see all the politicians united asking the citizens once again for prudence, responsibility, the maintenance of social distance, the use of masks, respect for trades, hygiene measures, everything that regulates this royal decree-law. And yes, we also want it to be treated as a bill, because we understand that it must be deepened, unlike the Basque Nationalist Party, in the set of measures that strengthen the State's response to the resurgence. We set them essentially in two: to deepen the obligation of collaboration and the provision of information by the Autonomous Communities, which, as Mr Illa has said, already provides for the reform of Article 65 of Law 16/2003, and, secondly, to provide the Autonomous Communities, which are the ones with health competence, with more agile measures to adopt confinement when it comes to localized outbreaks and there is no need for an alarm again. That is why it is necessary, as you have also said, to establish traceability measures, and that is why we have asked you, we continue to ask you and we will continue to ask you at national level for the development of these APPs on mobile phones that are being tested in La Gomera, the purchase of machines that can do massive tests and also, as we have established the mandatory use of masks, to be reasonable and to lower your VAT to 4%, as we have already requested through a non-law proposal. This royal decree-law has a history, a stone on the way, a stone that begins in the first vote of the extension of the state of alarm, with which comes forward that extension without any vote against, because then the parliamentary opposition groups, with the exception of some small ones, are changing their vote. It was striking that in speeches from this rostrum no one spoke of the need for confinement as the only possible medicine against the virus; it was embarrassing. I understand that citizens would think that we Members lived in extraterrestrial space, but certainly not in their world. I imagine the families locked up, the families in fear, the insecure families listening to us from home and thinking: But what are these gentlemen in Parliament talking about, the intolerable renationalization of competences, as we have just heard here; the table of dialogue, blackmail and shame; the withdrawal of confidence from the President of the Government by the groups that supported the Frankenstein Government, or even asking for their resignation, as if Spain in the epidemic were in an optimal situation to call elections - imagine!-; the complete repeal of labour reform; historical episodes of the history of Spain and the world? Anyway, it's crazy. People died; people died for tens, hundreds, thousands and tens of thousands; people died, while we were listening to this. We were only thinking of the need or not for confinement and the need to extract from the government conditions that would be good for Spain's economic resurgence as soon as possible. And we managed to get the extensions to be of fifteen days, to have the ERTE disconnected from the state of alarm - and today the social agents are negotiating this extension of the ERTE - which will be studied the extension of the extraordinary benefit and the exemption of the quotas of the special regime for self-employed workers, to see the case of the seasonal self-employed - I know that the tax moratorium of one month without interest in the main taxes is being studied in the ministry - the plan of support for tourism, telematic communication with the Tax Agency, keeping open the channels of dialogue with the Government in all strata, and, yes, the participation of the autonomous communities, as the Minister of Health has said, both in the final declaration of the state of epidemic and in the so-called coordinated action measures decreed by the Minister of Health and which must be brought to the consensus of these, being since that moment mandatory. And with this royal decree-law we managed to reduce the distance from two meters to one and a half meters, which means the increase of 25% of the weight in the malls and is a greater distance than that recommended by the World Health Organization, in addition to many other things. [[The lady]] Today there are two parliamentary groups here that will notably vote no, and they will do so from a curious syllogism: if Citizens is in the agreement, I don't care about social distance and masks; if Citizens is in the agreement, I prefer disease, contagion and death. These gentlemen are Squerra Republicana de Catalunya and Bildu. They have to cry out: Long live death! Unfortunately, one of these two groups would not draw much attention to us either. Gentlemen, Miquel Roca said here and his majesty the king of Spain said here that the pact is the privilege of courage. I ask you for that courage to attend to the economic emergency, so that you can agree among all the general budgets of the State. We are asked by the social partners, Spain needs it as a measure of containment of the economic crisis, among other tools; we must be brave. The Government has to be responsible, it has to present us with moderate and reasonable public accounts, in which we can be all parliamentary groups. They will be the most important budgets in our history, with the fall in gross domestic product and the unemployment figures we have. It will be budgets that we cannot leave in the hands of Bildu and Esquerra Republicana...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u62	Mr. Bal, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u63	That's why it's important to compromise, to give in. There is a common best interest. Courage, ladies and gentlemen, courage. [[Give it up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u64	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Illa, allow me, without being a member of this social communist government, but only because I am one of those villains who support them from time to time, to join in the applause that they have dedicated to him. I know it's been hard days, and above all the wrongs and wrongs, I know it's been a good job. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]] Compromise will not oppose this decree. In fact, we are going to move from a negative vote to a abstention. We have seen details, positive gestures on the part of the Government: the change of approach in the distribution of the COVID fund, with a greater weight of the population, as proposed at the time Commitment - a paragraph: you and the Government would have been able to negotiate with us a little more and we would have saved ourselves a few words raised in tone and some negative vote - the ratification yesterday by the President of the Government that he would comply with the investiture agreement and, in particular, the two announcements he made that there would be a proposal for a new model of the funding system and there would be no experiments with the A-7. We need to improve - and I say this - some things: the forms, the forms with the groups - even if we are small, we need to improve those forms, and they know it - and some of the proposals that we have asked for and that we are not going to give up, such as the signing of the agreement with the autonomous communities for the management of the minimum living income or the financing of both the dependence and the metropolitan transport of Valencia, in which we have always insisted, so that at this time that all the autonomous communities now come, we have the same possibilities, the same resources to be able to combat this epidemic. Therefore, our vote will be abstention. I insist, with a little more negotiation, our vote would probably have been positive. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u66	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Errejón Galván has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u67	Thank you, Madam President. With regard to this decree which you bring, Minister, it is also time to take stock of a hundred days of confinement and a hundred days especially hard. But we are concerned that, when we come to this situation, we will leave a hundred days of this health alarm to enter a state of social alarm. We have voted yes to all the government proposals that served to save lives and make things easier for health workers, and we will continue to do so. We believe, however, that it is not easy to be optimistic and think that we come out with more conditions to be stronger for a possible rebound or for any other challenge in the future; and yet there were conditions. We greatly appreciate the work you, Minister, and your ministry have done, but we fear that if there was a new outbreak or a difficult situation, you would surely have fewer instruments to deal with with it with strength. Look, the crisis has discovered a number of things to us, and it's also terrible that a tragedy was the one that had to discover evidence like the one I'm going to quote now. First of all, how expensive the law of private benefit came to us, and who wants to convince himself of this has only to look at the state, for example, of the poorly sold residences and how expensive the law of profit comes out at any cost. Secondly, of course there is the common good and that we are only weaker and the only way to respond is with an organized community, the state and public services. I want to remind you here, because the memory of some is a memory of fish: when market forces were running scared, only essential workers, public services and the state were able to respond. But, thirdly, it must also be said that those who gave the most face are worse. Public services remain decimated and, in general, the families in the humblest neighborhoods, where confinement was tougher and the pandemic was tougher, are today in worse condition. Intermón Oxfam revealed to us the other day that the twenty-three Spanish ultra-rich, the three richest have emerged from the crisis with 20 billion more, and yet we have 700,000 more poor. It is a question, Minister, of making daily what in the exception allowed us to save ourselves: an organized community, well-funded public services, a strong state that is up to the challenges that will be posed to us. And I have the feeling that a historic opportunity of social consensus, scientific consensus and parliamentary majority is being missed, which already exists, without the need for commissions or pirouettes, to move forward in this direction. We consider it essential - I know it is not your negotiation, but without this it will not have many tools - a transformation of our economy, a social protection and a shielding of public services up to what we need, and that cannot be done without a fiscal rebalancing, without a COVID rate that weighs more on those who have more. We said it in the investiture: A progressive government is not measured by how much it clashs with the right, but by how much social justice advances, and for that it is necessary to look in front of the oligarchies. Without that, we fear that the new normality will be like the old one, but with more screams and more scarecrows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u68	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Finally, Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u69	Thank you, President. Minister, Junts per Catalunya will vote no for the adoption of this royal decree. But we ask that it be treated as a bill in order to be able to present our proposals. The Royal Decree-Law 21/2020 is the continuation of a series of royal decrees that have been adopted to decree the state of alarm and its successive extensions. Although we do not fully agree with the content of the actual decrees regulating the extension of the state of alarm, in addition to the fact that they did not represent the distribution of competence and the centralized state powers, our group initially abstained on two occasions. We abstained from the sense of responsibility, but we always highlighted our proposals for improvement, measures to be taken and, above all, we strongly called for the return of competences. Later, noting that our demands were not met and our contributions were not taken into account, at the precise moment we chose to vote against the successive royal decrees authorizing the extension of the state of alarm. We have met with a Government that, instead of negotiating with the Autonomous Communities, did what it did was to give press briefings in which the President of the Government informed all citizens, and then did so to the Autonomous Communities. The present royal decree gives us the reason for what we have been demanding all this time, and it is that the powers be returned to us. You have maintained throughout the whole process that you have not taken them away from us, but we are being given a question. If they have not taken them away from us, they cannot give them back to us; but the President of the Government said they would give them back to us. Clarify yourself. If we focus on the content of the royal decree, we are faced with a rule that covers different topics and diversity of content. It refers, inter alia, to the compulsory use of the mask, to work centres and to maritime transport. We can state that we are facing a royal decree of tailor's drawer. From article 9 to article 16, both included, there is a relevant centralistic paternalism of the Government of the State. They say that the competent administrations must ensure compliance in educational centres, social services, hotels, tourist accommodation, etc. These measures must be taken by the Autonomous Communities and will be taken without the need for any Government to issue a royal decree. For all these reasons, I would like to reiterate that Junts per Catalunya will vote no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u71	Thank you very much, President. Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to add to the memory and support of the families of the deceased and, in any case, to thank all those sectors who, during the most complicated weeks of the confinement, continued to maintain what would be the pulse of society. I would also like to thank the Minister for the follow-up of this whole process with his appearances week after week; we recognize the effort and the possibility of having that framework to turn proposals on the road. It gives us the feeling that with the end of this state of alarm we enter into a new stage of transition, which we consider to be ill-called, of new normality, in which there are still some bad habits that we have been denouncing in this House over the last few months; a new limbo in which, by means of a real incomplete decree and which remains half-hearted, it seems to want to maintain the capacity that the ministry has had during this state of alarm to prevail as the highest competent authority in competences that are transferred to the autonomous communities, such as the sanitary ones. The autonomous state has been suspended for three months and we were repeatedly assured that the application of the state of alarm made it possible precisely to apply instructions in those areas that exceeded the territorial framework determined by each autonomous community, such as, for example, border control or even the limitation of interregional or interprovincial mobility, but that, as soon as possible, legislative and regulatory measures of a less exceptional nature would be prioritized than the state of alarm itself. We have reached phase 3 and, by virtue of the previous royal decree, 55/2020, the autonomous communities have been able to decide the process of descalation and we have completed the state of alarm. We therefore recover what we should never have lost: the ability to make decisions from the competent health field, be it the autonomous communities themselves which, on the basis of their competence framework, have the full capacity to decide on preventive measures to be implemented, which is how the State of self-government should be and how it works. But many of us wonder what they have in mind in the event of a resurgence, and the doubts return. Now, and until the end of the health crisis is officially declared, this royal decree is presented, which not only does not provide an alternative to the state of alarm, but takes generic preventive measures that can perfectly be taken by the autonomous communities, since many of them affect precisely their competitive framework. What needs to be done is to address a new specific regulatory framework for dealing with future pandemics, based on collaboration with the Autonomous Communities and the health authorities, respecting the principle of subsidiarity, and whether reforming the law governing states of alarm or public health laws is necessary, so that its application does not de facto involve competition lamination, centralisation and single command, which is contrary to the most elementary principle of decentralization that supposedly governs the autonomous state that you so claim to defend. During the state of alarm our group has perceived with concern an excess of hermeticism and bunkerization in decision-making, as well as a certain paternalistic attitude towards the autonomous communities and the rest of the House's groups, and that when you talk about coordination, it really is unilateral decisions that are informed at the last minute, without prior debate or consensus. They now call it coordinated public health actions. More than words, gestures are very important. More than words, gestures are very important. Discuss and seek consensus, especially in those issues that affect the competitive framework of the autonomous communities. As one Member has said, the forms are very important and have not been maintained during these months. We are also concerned about something else. It would not be the first time that, in the face of extraordinary emergency situations, such as droughts or even referendums, the opportunity would be used to introduce legislative amendments that are sold as temporary, and that end up being structural, in the sense of laminating the competition framework. In other words, the pretext of exceptionality is used to re-centralize through the back door. You decide whether you want to initiate legislative reforms, through open parliamentary debate and maximum consensus with the groups that facilitated the investiture, or prefer to continue with the clearance agreements and opacity. Ours is no longer a warning for navigators, as was the previous one. Dialogue and negotiation are practiced on a daily basis, because they are not only ads and press briefings. Their attitude and their present acts can mark the parliamentary dynamics for the rest of the legislature, and that is why we insist and are strong in this regard. We would like them to make good decisions, but we are not clear that they are very willing right now, as we have seen their attitude during these weeks. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Conchi. Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u73	Thank you, Madam President. From this rostrum I have often quoted Camus. I did it during the extensions of the state of alarm, and now that we are going to vote this decree of new normality and put an end to the state of alarm I wanted to do it again, bringing up the end of La Peste, which, as you know, wrote Camus when France was occupied by the Nazis, and ended at the end of the war. I'm sure the minister, who studied Philosophy, knows the passage I'm going to quote. By the way, thank you very much for your management. It wasn't easy. I think you've been up to this historic moment, and I thank you. The book ends, as the minister surely knows, with a scene in which people go out to celebrate the end of the epidemic, of the plague, but the protagonist does not, does not participate in collective joy. Why? Because he is a doctor - Dr. Rieux -, he has read books and knows that the plague never dies or disappears, but he remains asleep in any corner, in furniture, in the alcoves, in the papers, in the clothes, and waits patiently to wake up any day and send the rats back to die in the city and send us a message. That's the end of the book. What's that ending about? It tells us about the fragility, the vulnerability of the human being and the uncertainty in situations like the one we have experienced, in which one way or another we knew that the virus was always there. But it also tells us about the need to have memory, the moral duty of memory. Memory to continue to maintain in this new normality the civic responsibility that most people have demonstrated in the previous phase of confinement, according to what precisely previews the decree. Memory so you can learn from the mistakes of the past and not make them in the future. It reminds us to accept the weaknesses of our health system and our productive system, and to be able to strengthen them so that what has happened on this occasion never happens again. And memory to fight against the virus of hate and forgetfulness, because in the background the fight against the pandemic is a struggle of memory against forgetfulness. The fascist plague that inspired Camus' novel may have disappeared, but, like the virus, his bacillus remains dormant and dormant, waiting for new opportunities to awaken. Hatred suffices the space of a crack to be reborn and we have seen it during this pandemic. We've seen how hatred spread, and that's why I wanted to address your VOX lordships. You lead the whole crisis by insulting us, calling us criminals and murderers. The problem is that while you do that, while you point at us, there are others who shoot; and, as you know, unfortunately I don't say it in the figurative sense. When you point out to us, when your elected officials or supporters harass us and threaten us in the streets or in the networks, you create a climate of chasm that feeds the delusions of the unbrained like your bodyguards, who take a gun and simulate our murder. That's a shame and it's serious. It is serious not only because, of course, they do so because they are who we are, but because of the ideas we defend and because of what our defence of social justice represents. That means it's us today, but tomorrow it can be anyone who thinks like us or in a similar way. Tomorrow can be anyone who goes out on the street this Saturday during International Gay Pride Day, any migrant, any feminist - thank you, Marc, for the lesson of decency you gave us yesterday in this Congress - or anyone you accuse of being a Spanish evil. That has a name, fascism, and has a vaccine, freedom; freedom to live without fear of threats and freedom to live without fear of coming to the end of the month, freedom to live without fear of being thrown out of our homes or of being left without work. That is our purpose when we raise the social shield in this horizon of hope that we must strengthen now, in the phase of reconstruction of the post-COVID world that is now beginning. For this reason, measures such as minimum living income and armoring public health, but also the solidarity tax on big fortunes, are essential. We are not going to give up that tax because, without it, we will hardly be able to sustain the social policies that we need to push forward in our new phase. Make it clear to everyone. [[Give it up.]] I'm done. The decree we vote on creates an alarm system to keep us on guard and to remember the lessons we have learned, but it recognizes a truth that we cannot ignore: we will not be safe until there is a vaccine against the virus. We therefore need the best scientists to work on it and our promises to become budgets and policies. But there is a vaccine that we already have now, and it is the vaccine against inequalities, the vaccine against selfishness and hatred, the vaccine against the extreme right, and that vaccine is the strength of the public, the collective, the community, solidarity and cooperation. It is with those ingredients that we can leave behind the hatred of those who want to deny us freedom. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Asens. [[Pausa.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mr. Gil Lázaro asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Gil Lazarus?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Under Rule 71, for a specific false accusation that has just been made to my parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u76	Please refer to the imputation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u77	Thank you very much. I fail to make the comment, because it would be out of the regulatory process, of all the accusations that Mr Asens has made, but it has made an expressly false one, when he referred to 'his bodyguards' in relation to a subject who has appeared shooting photographs of members of the government on social networks. The VOX Parliamentary Group, and VOX as a party, immediately released a note saying that this individual has never been a VOX activist and has never participated in their security teams. I would therefore ask that Mr Asens withdraw the expression or be better informed. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Gil Lazarus. So it will cost in the Journal of Sessions. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Pastor Julián.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to express my most sensible memory to the victims of COVID-19 and their families, and also, of course, to thank all health professionals and all public servants for their commitment, generosity and professionalism. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum and ask you all to reflect deeply. At the heart of this tragedy are the more than forty thousand people who have died, and at the heart of our commitment must be honoring their memory, and to honor their memory we must recognize each and every one of them. [[Give it up.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the question is, could this have been avoided? The facts are stubborn and the figures are more stubborn. The first international alert related to this virus was on January 30 of WHO declaring a public health emergency of international importance. The Government minimized international alerts, the health authority marked a national strategy, in my view, wrong, talking about localized cases and only international and non-local transmission. It is clear that the epidemiological warning system did not work, as it is evident that neither did the Ministry of Health work, because in the face of such a serious crisis one thing was said and done and the opposite: first, I buy, and then you buy; first, protocol yes, and then protocol no; first, mask no, and then mask yes, and frontline sanitary without protection. Ladies and gentlemen, the consequences of this mismanagement of the crisis have been dramatic. The figures offered are inconceivable, changing the criteria every two by three. Dr. Pedro Alonso, epidemiologist and director of WHO's malaria program, warned - and stutter -: if you do not find out what has failed, you are doomed to repeat mistakes. I would tell you, Minister, that to find out I think we have all found out, but now what needs to be done is to recognize what we have not done well. And, ladies and gentlemen, what has left in this crisis has been propaganda. Every time I hear that we get stronger, my hair gets sharper. How are we going to get stronger, ladies and gentlemen, if we have not only left many people behind, but some are no longer? Therefore, we have to look to the future, of course, but each one assumes the responsibilities that belong to it. The will to deny realities, ladies and gentlemen, makes you weaker, but it also makes all Spaniards weaker. The text of the decree hides once again the date of 30 January, but why, if it is the key date and the Minister knows it? The General Law on Public Health contains it exactly in its article 14. Why have no measures been taken on international flights since 30 January? Why wasn't the masks said to be worn? Why did the WHO say that? Well, the WHO was able to say one thing or another, but it is common sense that if an infection is transmitted by droplets, when you put on a mask it is not transmitted or transmitted less. The responsibility was also to provide the health equipment, to carry out tests and, by the way, to be transparent: we do not yet know the national security alert reports. It is also, of course, a responsibility to have a real committee of experts, as reflected in the article of the Public Health Act. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in my opinion and humbly, a part could have been avoided. The virus campes freely, but it is not by chance that we have some frankly terrible figures: more dead for every hundred thousand inhabitants, as you know, and the greater number of infected professionals. Lincoln said that saying that you have no choice but to release yourself from responsibility, and that's right. You have to be able to take responsibility. And I'm going to the royal decree-law. The People's Party has supported the Government's state of alarm appeal. We have acted with loyalty to the Spaniards, and it was that same commitment and that same sense of responsibility that demanded us to defend constitutional normality. And when we considered that prolonging the state of alarm meant abusing an extraordinary remedy, we said no, as it cannot be otherwise, but we also said that there are laws in the ordinary legal order that would be valid and valid: Organic Law 3/1986, Health Law 1986, Public Health Law or the Law on Cohesion and Quality. We are ready to support legislative changes if necessary. Today, Minister, you come to validate a royal decree-law which is called, as you know, a decree of the meter and a half, of the masks and of the tests. By the way, it seems that in the souk that has been organized, some get half a metre and others get that reinforcement of the Interterritorial Council to disappear. The People's Party does not participate in the souk, the People's Party is asking, and we would appreciate it, that it can be processed as a bill to incorporate a series of measures that are essential. And it is imperative, Minister, that you continue to assume that it is the highest public health authority in our country, that the royal decree-law is limited, because it should contain measures that do not include. Besides, you get out of the way - forgive me, I don't want to be rude - and everything happens to the autonomous communities. I already know that when I say little to some do not like, because some say that they have loved, that they have hairstyled it; but do not trust much, because one day you can tell one thing and the next day the opposite - I am an expert on that -. Minister, you told us yesterday that you have a plan prepared to deal with the possible second wave. It must be approved now, and very important measures must be introduced in this royal decree: contingency plans; taking into account the entry doors of the virus, such as airports or ports, because there come contagions, as well as mobility; an effective tracking mechanism; strategic drug reserve; national pool of personnel; and, please, strengthening the external health services, something fundamental, as well as strengthening the Interterritorial Council. I know I have little time left, Madam President. I'm just finishing up. It will count on the support of our group, because this is being treated as a bill. But I would like to tell you that this bill must contain all the measures so that we can be prepared to deal not only with the resurgences that already exist, but also with an exceptional outbreak that covers all the autonomous communities and has, again, thousands of people affected, and we are not free from it. And also, to take advantage of and make structural reforms and to be able to have a state health pact. Ladies and gentlemen, it hurts me - and I haven't been in this gallery for years - especially it hurts me that we only talk about health when there are pandemics. It would be better if there were many times to talk about health, but what I can tell you is that it is worth it; it is worth it that this royal decree, which, as I say, is almost non-existent, includes measures such as the victim care office, such as an economic activation plan, such as a new legal front. Look, this is not a competence issue - some love it -; this is a public health issue. Be generous for once and provide the Ministry of Health with the necessary tools to make a real national policy. [[Give it up.]] I'm done. Let's not have a partisan vision. I, Minister, thank you for the work you and all the technicians in the ministry have done. I think it wasn't in bad faith, but what I can tell you is that, to a large extent, they haven't been right. And I'm telling you on behalf of all those people who can't get up here, for all those who have suffered it, those who are no longer here, the health workers, my companions, and all the people who have suffered this epidemic, this pandemic, this terrible virus. We are here to support and help for the good of our country's public health. Thank you so much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u80	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pastor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Meijón Couselo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u81	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all I would like to express our solidarity with those who have suffered the worst evils, the tragedy of COVID-19, and our appreciation of all the groups that have been on the front line in the fight against the pandemic. Minister, let me say to you with one word what this parliamentary group feels about the management of the government in this crisis: pride. [[Give it up.]] Pride of a Government that, facing one of the worst crises in history, has acted with rigour, transparency, honesty and, in particular, with social justice; that struggle to try to keep no one behind, which we miss so much in the previous crisis. But let me note the words honesty and humility that this Government, and you and your particular team, have embodied during this period, something that has led you to pronounce, on more than one occasion, a phrase: for look, I don't know. This is an unusual phrase, which reflects the honesty, humility and rigour of those who transfer the reality of a crisis that we were unaware of almost everything; its behavior, its transmission, the strategies to follow, and in which sufficient scientific knowledge was lacking, and which required dynamic and drastic measures, ready to be reviewed minute by minute, by virtue of its effectiveness and the scientific evidence that was emerging; measures that would serve the population in its health facet, but also in the economic and social facet. I am also proud of a minister and a President of the Government who, in each and every one of his interventions, undertook to take on any mistakes and, instead, have collected the right ones, attributing everything that was on the right track to the merit of all the institutions of this country and, of course, to the conduct of the citizens, and that honors them. [[Give it up.]] Others, on the other hand, have chosen to respond by eroding the action of the Executive through the use of delegitimization, cryptation and continuous attacks on the Government. To what end? Undoubtedly - the main - to pretend to cover up the teachings that this crisis has brought us, which are very unsuited to the ideologies of right and right. Because COVID-19 has allowed us to examine all, through DAFO analysis, the weaknesses, threats, strengths and opportunities of our country, of our institutions, of our public services. And if something has become apparent in this analysis, among other things, it has been, first of all, the need for politics, for good politics, because not all politicians nor all policies are equal. Secondly, that it is necessary to have more State, a strengthened State that can cope with crises with solvency, rigour and social justice; that the welfare state model is the one that best ensures a full response to all citizens, and in particular to the most vulnerable sectors; that the cuts, reduction and weakening of that welfare state in the governments of the People's Party, and objective in numbers, have caused much of the weaknesses with which we have faced this crisis; that, therefore, a strong commitment is needed to strengthen the essential public services, the pillars of a welfare state that, by the way - I will say so, because - as long as they have appeared in our society has been with the stamp of the socialists and the progressives who have accompanied us - what better shows than the recent approval of minimum living income; what better shows - and also, that our territorial model, the State of autonomy, has received a great boost from the Government. [[applause]] Against recentralization, governance; governance that should serve to strengthen it and make the necessary adjustments to optimize its functioning. Ladies and gentlemen of the right and right - which, as it stands, mounts so much - is not understandable - let alone at the moment - your commitment to the policies of harassment and destruction and, by the way, your commitment to the policies of frivolity. Or, isn't it a frivolity of Mr. Feijoo to manage health as if they were big warehouses, and to announce gift checks for our health care providers of 250 euros to spend on travel and hotels? [[Give it up.]] By the way, your health counselor apologized, Mr. Feijoo, no. Or Mrs. Ayuso's, announcing a charity bullfight as a prize to her work? Do you consider it laudable to injure the dignity of our health professionals, of those who have been on the front line in the fight against COVID-19? And, please, never again - never again - argumentaries calling for politics with the deceased, the deceased who are of all of us. [[Give it up.]] Minister, with this royal decree-law we take an important step and move from living against the virus to living with the virus, which unfortunately remains there; a phase that is not by desire easier to cope with. On the contrary, it implies - if possible - an increase in caution and preventive measures, as well as an increase in responsibility, both of the Government and of the institutions and of each of us at the individual level, and in the meantime, to work at a standstill in the reconstruction of this country. By the way, also stop putting sticks on wheels in the European Union; withdraw the report. Do you really feel satisfied? We are beginning the process of social and economic reconstruction of our country, a process in which I am sure that the citizens would like the call of the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, to the unity and joint effort of all the groups in this House; to the sum, not to the remainder; to debate and criticism in order to contribute and build; to institutional loyalty. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a teacher, and you are going to allow me to explain it to you with an old story collected by Trinidad de Coelho, a 19th-century Portuguese politician, who read to me my father. Once upon a time a father had seven children, and when his hour came, he gathered them all together and told them to go up to the mountain and find a dry wiener. They were brought in and the father gave the youngest son each of those limbs to break them, which the little boy did most easily. He ordered the father to return to the mountain to bring another dry wicker and when they returned he told them to tie the seven wickers in a beam; once the beam was made, he gave it to the older brother to try to break it. Neither the older brother nor all the brothers together were able to break that wiener beam. Understand, the father said to them, that this means that while you are united there will be no one more powerful than you. Thus, unity and loyalty to face, with all the strength possible, the reconstruction of this country. That is what Spanish society expects of us. Ladies and gentlemen - and let me quote you, Minister - please cooperate. Nothing more; boogie. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, ladies and gentlemen, I rise.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u82	Thank you, sir, Meijón. On behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. I simply wanted to thank the various groups for their contributions to this debate and to those groups that have expressed their affirmative vote, and to thank them for their support for this royal decree, which we consider important. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u84	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u85	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the proposal for an organic law reform of Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. Two amendments to the entire alternative text have been tabled to this proposal. In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, you come here not to make the law but to cheat. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I turn again to you to start the debate on amendments to the whole proposal for an organic law reform of Organic Law 2/2012. My group has tabled an amendment to the whole with an alternative text on two objective, not ideological issues. The first, because the proposal for a law presented by the Socialist Group can only receive one qualification, well, two: partyist and opportunist, and I will explain it to you later. Secondly, because the legislative procedure, the Rules of Congress and the Spanish Constitution are clear when it comes to the amendment of organic laws: absolute majority, which you do not like at all, which are broader than the simple ones. His initiative is therefore rejected for this second reason. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an initiative designed to improve the situation of workers, self-employed people and SMEs, so severely hit during the COVID crisis. It is not even an initiative to relaunch a strategic plan on our economy. What you are presenting is a proposal for an organic law that seeks only one end, and that is to release the fantasy of the Government, which you support in order to achieve exacerbated levels of power and avoid a control, a parliamentary opposition and, ultimately, a counterweight proper to the democracies of the twenty-first century. [[Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u87	I'm sorry, Mrs. Cañizares. I beg a little silence, please. I pray silently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u88	As I said to you, the legislative branch has no task in a democracy to pave the way for the Government and to allow it to act without just controls, regardless of the government's political sign, but to regulate the rights and responsibilities of citizens, in accordance with the Constitution. In addition, it must ensure that the Executive carries out its work in an orderly and diligent manner, which is required of any administrator. For their part, citizens must understand that the partisan interests that lead them to present this initiative are already expired. This proposal for an organic law is the result of a past situation - the motion of censure to Mr Rajoy and the circumstances that arose from it - which no longer gives them the excuse, because when the People's Party left the Government, the political situation was as follows: the Socialist Party, despite having the majority with its parliamentary partners in this House, found itself faced with a reality that was truncating its plans: the absolute majority of the People's Party in the Senate, in the Upper House. Thus, the Socialist Government found it difficult to impose its thesis of extending spending on general budgets, as the Budget Stability Act states that if the Senate rejects the bill, the Government must forward a new one within a maximum period of one month. Do you think it makes sense that the PSOE, which argued that the Senate should become a real territorial chamber, now intends to corner it because it is no longer good for it? This is the opportunism I was talking about and the one I was talking about. The Socialist Group, in its approach, intends to allow the Government to give a clear disregard to the role attributed to the Senate and, ladies and gentlemen, the General Courts are not only formed by this House. The powers of Congress and the Senate can certainly be considered, but through the initiative that you present to us, what you are trying to do is to impose your will, no matter how, when or why. And I would like you to answer a question from the proposing group. If the government sitting on the blue bank today were a government of a different political sign, would they vote yes to its bill? Would you accept that a different government should leave this House with objectives of budgetary stability and public debt approved by the minimum? I'd like to hear your answer. And I say this because, precisely, Congress must legislate for citizens and not for the government. Even though that question is still unanswered, I think about it. Do you not think that this government, once installed in power, will be perpetuated sine die? Because that would be another option that I hadn't contemplated. I call on you to do an exercise which you prescribe and which you appeal to so much but which you do not practice, and that is to seek the consensus and true agreement of the strengthened majority in this House and therefore take into account that social majority which you are talking about, because all of us who work in this House and who do not make up the Government also represent a large part of the society which must be taken into account and respected. Supervision of the expenditure ceiling is a form of control of the Government from which you have tried to escape on an ongoing basis recently, during the state of alarm, without going any further. I say this because this control is not carried out through endless press briefings given to public television and scripted in the purest 'Hello President' style, but through the parliamentary work that you have tried to prevent at all costs. At the time we were wondering why and now we know that the reason was simply that they had nothing to tell us, that their management skills were overtaken and that his Government's ineptness has become evident. But, of course, assuming it wasn't an option. Well, the organic law that contains the regulation of budgetary stability and which you intend to alter is precisely that, an organic law, whose rank makes impossible the modification procedure that you propose, since by vetoing a bill or proposal of organic law, the lifting of the veto requires in any case the ratification by the absolute majority of the members of Congress, as the Rules of this house say, and it would not be possible to approve the objectives by simple majority, as you claim. Ladies and gentlemen, in politics how matters and why, even more so, and, with you in charge, to leave budgetary stability to the will of a finance minister who says: Chiqui, 1 billion are nothing, because we are afraid, very afraid. [[Give it up.]] The amendment to Article 135 of our Constitution introduced control over our accounts in order to meet the objectives of the Stability and Growth Pact. The pact in question includes references to ensure sustainable growth in the Member States, which, as you know, set the ceiling of 60% debt on GDP and 3% deficit. Well, the repeated assessments of compliance with the pact are a negative result for our country, and it is that Spain not only fails to comply with the rules of the game, but does so systematically. Our economy, as you know, brings structural debt problems, which by February 2020 had reached 96.55 % of GDP. Let's get the Guinness record. Of course, those who like to bring to our rostrum our Magna Charter, our Constitution, to put it up and to talk almost always about three or four articles referring to rights, when they come to article 135, which speaks of obligations and responsibilities, would already chirrate them. And it is that the State, in addition to seeking welfare for its citizens, must also be responsible and must know how far it can and should spend. It is what any adult responsible for a family does; any mother or any father must seek the welfare of his children but must be aware that he must not leave them in debt for life, with debts that they will never be able to pay. What son would accept his parents' debt for life? I don't think any. Thus, increasing expenses and imbalances is the most antisocial policy; as I told them, it is passing their bills on to their children, their grandchildren or their great-grandchildren. It is precisely at this moment of uncertainty that more expenditure on the part of the State will be required - as we all know - in order to alleviate the effects of the crisis in which we are immersed and we should think, as we recommend, with good judgment - and this has been made known to us in the Reconstruction Commission - the President of AIReF, Cristina Herrero, we must think of a control of our accounts, medium- and long-term adjustments to avoid in the not too distant future imbalances that may cause Spain to fail to meet its Community objective, thereby undermining our international credibility. And you with your policies, far from ordering and reducing debt and deficit, have burdened our economy. And this Member is not saying it, the European Commission is saying it in its recommendations published on 20 May 2020, where they were already warning them that the deviation from the targets in 2019 was significant. This, ladies and gentlemen, makes it clear that its pre-coronavirus policies have worn out the Spanish economy, even when it grew, and we also received a clear message from Brussels: they will not deceive us. The deviation of objectives is a consequence of their management. The government only knows how to lay hands and preach without setting an example, although it seems that this time it will not be worth them because Europeans are going to allocate the funds to solid growth, something you simply cannot offer. As regards the amendments to the joint text tabled by the rest or by most of the parliamentary groups, almost all of them are based on an unsound basis: dream. They put a series of measures in place to ensure that the budget balance is balanced from next year. But how do you intend to reduce the debt if we're going to spend more than we're going to get in? I remind you that we are not starting from a situation of zero debt, but from more than 99% of GDP and with projections of up to 120%, according to the Governor of the Banco de España, for next year. Some of these amendments also talk about the investment of the general government surplus, when by 2021 the AIReF has said that we will be able to reach almost 14% of the deficit. Put your feet on the ground, ladies and gentlemen. Congress must be to solve the problems of the Spanish and not to create them. The amendment with alternative text submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group complies with the constitutional principles, the rules of Congress and, therefore, with the current legislative procedure, and does not deal with ideological or partisan issues, apart from the political sign of the Government of Spain. Our proposal considers the role of the Senate and confirms the need to establish proper control over the Government, which is not sufficiently articulated through a simple majority, in case the Senate rejects the objectives. This is about fostering the common sense economy. We propose that, in the event of Congress' approval of those objectives and subsequent rejection or veto by the Senate, it be again the Congress that could lift that veto by absolute majority and approve the objectives. I'm finishing up, Madam President. This alternative would involve a sufficient majority to ensure that the preamble to the elaboration of the General Budgets of the State has been set up within a framework of responsibility and sustainability, and without deviating from our commitments to the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, a 100 per cent indebted economy cannot generate solid growth and you, allow me, only know how to do magic when it comes to emptying the arks; then you get it in record time. Public expenditure must be monitored and rational, and the laws must respond to the general interest of the citizens, to whom the Congress of Deputies represents, not that of its acronyms, not those of its Government, but that of the Spaniards. In short, they do not convert politics into the art of disguised their particular interest of general interest. Thank you. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs Cañizares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. In defence of the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Píriz Maya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u90	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise here today to defend the amendment to the whole of my group with an alternative text to the proposal for a law amending the Budget Stability Act. [[The Lord]] At this point we all have some clear things, for example, that the closest thing to oil and water in the political sphere is the PSOE and budgetary stability. They do not believe in it, they do not believe in the laws that regulate it, although they sometimes come here as champions of budgetary stability and even propitiate one of the only two modifications of our Magna Charter, precisely to shield the concept of budgetary stability. That 23 August 2011, that summer, his ineptitude put our country against the ropes, and was preceded by those cuts of a socialist government. Remember? Remember those months? Do many of you remember Dr. Sánchez in this Congress by pressing the green button in front of you and voting yes to the cuts? Up there, in the eighth row. Remember those cuts? Yes, gentlemen, recent history; history of the epilogue of the last socialist government; recent history of how they leave the country's accounts when they rule. Do I remind you of that May 12, 2010? In those decrees they voted yes to cut 68 billion at the cost of lowering the salary by 5% to officials. That day they voted yes to cut €1.5 billion in pharmaceutical spending and cut €1530 million by freezing pensions to millions of Spaniards. Do you remember? Are you remembering me? In those decrees you cut 400 million euros with the suspension of the transitional pension scheme or cut 300 million in dependency, eliminating retroactivity. The families were also touched, 1250 million euros in cuts with the elimination of the baby check or 13 billion euros with additional cuts in pharmaceutical spending. I'm sure they won't remember because they don't care. Benjamin Franklin said creditors usually have a better memory than debtors. And it is true, you must even shut up with Spain because at every step we can remind you of all the evil that you did at that time and all the evil that you continue to do since you ruled our country. The debtors never recognize their debts, as you do. Socialists, you are bringing us this amendment to Act No. 2/2012 on budgetary stability. These two moments in the recent history of Spain that you are trying to eliminate from the collective memory incapacitate you to come here to teach us lessons from nothing, to try to modify a law of budgetary stability that approved this House, among other things, to solve the barbarities that you carried out during your last executives, I remember, with the vote in favour - up there - of Dr Sánchez and many of you. Look, coming here to talk about budgetary stability with the Socialist Party always requires a great exercise of self-control. Let's go to the data first. The deficits in recent years, in the last socialist executives, were 11% in 2009, 9.4% in 2010 and 9.1% in 2011. They come back to the government after the motion of censure and in their only full year of government, in 2019, they leave the deficit by 2.8%, when the target agreed with Brussels was 1.3%, more than double. They overcame all the scenarios, also exceeding the 1.8% that they approved in the Council of Ministers or the 2% that contained the economic plan that they sent to Brussels; 18 billion more deficits than agreed with Brussels on the basis of decrees-laws, 18 billion more deficits than agreed with our partners in this Law on Budgetary Stability, in this law that develops that constitutional change that you, with a president of yours, proposed. They continually amend themselves without any indecentness, ladies and gentlemen, and even the European Commission itself corrects by more than 2 billion the deficit they sent to Brussels so as not to look bad - I understand - as always. These are your data, we're not inventing them in the People's Party. Opinions and interpretations may vary, but the data, their data, are those. This is what happens whenever the Socialist Party governs our country, let alone the 2020 forecasts, which the Bank of Spain already places above 11% of the deficit and which yesterday the International Monetary Fund placed at around 14%, and gave us the dubious honor of leading the world economic collapse. As I said to you, these are the data and they are unappealable and irrefutable, and our perception is that you have a manifest inability in the economic sphere. When they come out of the socialcommunist prefabricated bottle and scratches a little below, we can all see how they have no economic discourse, how they have no solutions, how Spain is in the hands of anyone, with a rose in one hand and a sickle and a hammer in the other, or in the t-shirt. There is no government, there is no project, there is no road map, there is no work behind it, because how is it understood that with the crisis that is coming upon us we are here today debating on amending an article of a law that has a fundamental desire to generate employment and wealth in our country and to get out of the crisis, from the crisis that, I repeat and I will not tire of saying, you have engaged us with your decisions? Just as in this one that comes forward, they will also be guilty of the consequences in Spain being infinitely greater than those of other countries in our environment. We have come to discuss the powers of the Senate, because it is the substantial amendment of the article that they intend to reform and to which my group opposes at the front. Steve Jobs said that forward it's complicated to join the dots or tie them together, but backward it's simple, and I trust that with you it's like that. I remember when we discussed this law for the first time in late 2018. Few thought that was the beginning of many things that would come later. It was hard to predict it forward, but now, with perspective, it's easy to connect the dots. With that modification that was intended, similar to that of now, you marked the road map that would have many star moments and many photos. A few days after that debate we had, came the photo of Pedralbes, the photo of the twenty-one points between Torra and Sánchez, the photo of the shame because I assumed of acceptance - I remind you - to the figure of the rapporteur, and above all because of the bilaterality that I assumed and to which I will return later. But the points could continue to connect, naming the state's attorney general a former socialist minister and former deputy, putting in check the separation of powers, or some absolutely embarrassing photos, like this more recent one; yes, this one, with this person convicted of belonging to armed gang and convicted of kidnapping. [[shows a photograph]] That signature that appears there is from the Group's spokesperson...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u91	Mr. Píriz, I would ask you to attend to the point where we are.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u92	I'm just connecting the dots, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u93	No, to my mind, Your Honor, no. I would therefore beg you to stick to the point.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u94	I am trying to explain the bilaterality of the Socialist Group and our multilateralism, if you will allow me. [[Give it up.]] I taught them an example of bilaterality, though it bothers them. There are many more examples if we connect the points, but what is clear is that the PSOE believes in bilaterality and we believe in multilateralism. That is why we believe in the Senate as a chamber of autonomous representation, where all the autonomous communities, which have even appointed senators, can agree on those issues that affect them, such as debt and deficit targets, and which mark the playing field for their own budgets. The PSOE does not, they believe in bilaterality, in meeting with Torra, with Otegi, or in sending their C2 through Cambridge, to Churches, to Lledoners prison to negotiate the budgets there with the imprisoned politicians. We do believe in the Senate, we believe in institutions, we do not deny them; we will not do it or allow it. That is why our amendment to the whole. His own bill, in the preamble, speaks of an imperfect bicamerality in Spain. Have you looked around, have you looked for countries that don't have a double house? Did you find them nearby? You don't believe in the Senate and you don't believe in budget stability. How, if not, is it understood that they want to remove powers in this area from the Senate? What's next, shut down the Senate? Does the Socialist President of the Senate not say that greater responsibility must be given? Can you agree at once, like a party, and have a single opinion? He said Groucho Marx, the one in a cabin that irritates him so much when reminded by former President González, that these are my principles and if he doesn't like them, I have others. So they are behaving, as in that scene in the cabin that angers them so much: pointing one in one direction and another in another, changed their principles by vows to stay in Moncloa no matter where those vows come from, what they suppose and what they represent. Now they want to eliminate Senate competencies without saying what else they want to take away and use all kinds of room arguments. They say that in the process of the budget law, if the Senate votes against, they return to Congress. Of course, because the General Budgets of the State are the budgets of the General Administration of the State, but the objectives of debt and deficit affect all administrations of this country, and the Senate, as the Chamber of Territorial Representation, has to have a say there, doesn't it? I don't know what price they're paying or who asked for it. I do not know what the next point we will be able to connect with is that they want to amend article 135 or 155 of the Constitution. It is also a greater modification of our Magna Charter, which we have given ourselves among all, because listening to your Minister of Justice and your constituent crisis of the other day, you start to tremble. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, this debate is not what your Spaniards expect. Spain is at a historic crossroads, it is hostage to the decisions of a government that reacted late and badly, and that, if it does not react, it will already be the culprit that hundreds of thousands of ERTE are transformed into thousands of voluntary creditor contests and ERE. They are already late, with all the indicators in red, with an absolute inaction, with surveys like that of the European Parliament, which says that Spain is the country that, according to its citizens, has reacted the worst to the crisis. That is why we should be listening here to its measures to mitigate the €25 711 million revenue loss expected by the tax administration, its measures to ensure that business and consumer confidence are not down to 30% or that debt reaches or exceeds, according to some scenarios, 122% of GDP. Here we should be talking about proposals to get out of this crisis and I would be talking to you about the measures of the People's Party, about our plan to activate Spain by lowering taxes and boosting the economy, about our roadmap, about the browser of a party that the Spaniards know has always solved the misguided left. But no, we are talking about a law on budgetary stability and its modification at the worst of times, when all the eyes of Brussels and the main European chancellors look to our country with distrust and we must convey the opposite. You are always so timely and so punctual, but the Spaniards know that it will always be us, that it will be my group to solve the problems that you create. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. They attribute to Miguel de Cervantes, in the first part of the Quixote, when Alonso Quixano faced windmills, the phrase he said: the wind cannot be prevented, but it is necessary to know how to make windmills. Just that, gentlemen of the PSOE, pay attention to Don Quixote: rule now, withdraw this bill, convey confidence to our partners and if you don't know, step aside and don't bother anymore, because their incompetence takes a country ahead, takes Spain ahead and millions of life projects of our compatriots. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's agenda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course the Canary Islands Coalition is not going to vote on the amendments in their entirety because we believe that blocking the state's budgets for political reasons, at a time when this country needs a budget - be it better or worse, govern who rules - does not make sense. That is why I am not going to vote on the amendments in their entirety, and I am going to support the fact that the procedure in this case is like that of the laws that this country has, which are no less or more important than this in particular, which has a unique, exceptional procedure, that moment of the PSOE-PP constitutional agreement, which was not consulted with anyone, nobody trusted anyone and was for a point of order. The issues have changed. The president herself of the AIReF, who is not suspicious of being a madwoman, said in her appearance at the Reconstruction Commission - I have it here - the following with regard to the use of the remnants by the municipalities and the surplus by the communities that had it: In this sense I think that the rule of spending has to be made more flexible; it is more than making it more flexible that there should be no such rule of spending. [[shows a document]] That's what he said. And why does the president of the AIReF say that? The president of the AIReF explains how at European level countries are allowed - it was decided in the face of the emergency situation - not to comply with the Law on Stability for the Emergency Situation. We arrived in Spain and it turns out that there are three autonomous communities, Navarra, the Canary Islands and the Basque Country, that have had surplus. And in a distressing situation of loss of income and social and health spending, it has taken a long time to get these three autonomous communities to incorporate the surplus to deal with the pandemic. But we have 8,000 municipalities in Spain that have billions in the banks, and it turns out that Mrs de Hacienda treats those who comply with those that do not comply and do not let use, incorporate the remnants into the budgets or surpluses, which are in current accounts in the banks. But do you know what's going on? Yesterday the president of the government - Moncloa, ministers who have no idea of the reality of the land - leaves and says that they will allow a part of the remnant to be used to renew the cars and buy them electric. But are they not aware that the problem is social services in the municipalities, the ability to hire people, the ability to pay for light, the water of many families? What I am saying today is: Let us pay attention to the president of the AIReF, immediately, so that the municipalities of Spain, which are in the forefront of the fight against the economic crisis, social exclusion and vulnerability, can dispose of those remnants to face social expenses and not to renew the purchase of the cars, which is the only thing that was missing. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u97	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] The next item is Mrs Vehí Cantenys.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u98	I'm going to start with a subject that doesn't come up, I'm going to be allowed by Mr. President, it's going to be very quick. Another miner has died in the Sallent mine; we have been two dead in three weeks and the occupational sinestrality is evident that it is directly linked to the precariousness of the job, which is why also the T-shirt of the Asturian workers who are on hunger strike and a recognition of all the combative unionism, from the Nissan to the worker fired for being affiliated to the SAT. Having said that, I am focusing on the Budget Stability Act. We, before, at the Ombudsman's point, explained the European architecture of institutional racism. It is now up to us to explain one of the budgetary control mechanisms of the European Union which is, as the name of the law says, budgetary stability. This has to do with austerity policies, it is directly related to these austerity policies that have broken so many bonds in so many communities and that have reduced investment in public services. It is also related to article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, which prioritizes paying the debt to invest in public services. And it has to do with the economic capacity of the municipalities and, although the government tries to find an alternative to what was Montoro law, it maintains the logic of the troika, which is debt, which is to thin public services and which from Brussels control what the municipalities do. The CUP has a project specifically based on municipalism as a cornerstone. For us it is an indispensable disposition for self-determination. In addition, the municipalities are the administrations closest to the citizenry. That is why and from this perspective, we defend self-determination, we defend sovereignty, but not only national, but also economic, and we understand that the European Union does everything but guarantee economic sovereignty, and more in times of pandemic. Neither Mrs Calviño's candidacy to preside over the Eurogroup, nor austerity, nor debt, nor the troika will guarantee our lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u99	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u100	Thank you, President. He called on one of the people who had defended an amendment to the whole not to speak of ideology, saying that it was not an ideological proposal that he was bringing. I'm going to do just the opposite, I'm going to talk about ideology, so you can follow someone's example, take your book and pay little attention. I will talk about ideology because the proposals that have been put forward here have a profound ideological burden, and I will not tell you anything new if I tell you that they are antagonistic to the positions that we and we defend at Euskal Herria Bildu. The proposal that is brought here is to create a legal architecture at the service of the economic elites, which will allow once again - as in that infamous August in which article 135 of the Constitution was amended - to have the population absolutely besieged, under conditions of enormous vital difficulty. I really felt sorry, and I honestly say that the representative of the People's Party did not have three more minutes - or five or ten - because he was enjoying the hilarious connection of points or milestones he has made. Moreover, I think if I had had more time I would probably have been able to include ads like 'Comppro Oro' or 'Selling Opel Corsa' in that hilarious connection between Otegi, Torra and what we're discussing here, which is the Budget Stability Act. We do not support the amendments, of course, and we are going to vote against it because what we believe is that we have to go even further than what the Government is saying or doing, is that we believe that the Budget Stability Act should be repealed, is that we believe that it is not worth a slight reform, it is that we believe that the Budget Stability Act condemns the citizens of Euskal Herria, but also the citizens of the Spanish State, to have to live in conditions of indignity because it obliges us to prioritize the payment of debt on the real possibilities of any Administration to provide more resources to the institutions, in this case to the locals, to the municipalities, and thus to be able to generate policies - ideology, in the end - that serve to help the lower classes, that serve to help the popular classes. Probably from those muds these muds and probably from what was done in that month of August - when even the most constitutionalists, the most stupendous constitutionalists ran to reform the Constitution to provoke the austere, which came by mandate from Europe - we have encountered the reality that we have encountered. It has already been said before - and I will not dwell too much on this - that the Budget Stability Act treats equally those who are different and treats equally those who live in different realities. That, in law, is the most unfair thing that can be done and is what is being done with the Budget Stability Act, because it is preventing municipalities from devoting more money to people; and it is the municipalities that have already been reminded here by the representative of the CUP, the first door, the first window to which a person has recourse when in difficulty. We therefore believe that we need to go far beyond what is being said and, of course, not on the path that the amendments mark to the whole, but just the opposite. What needs to be done is to provide the municipalities with more resources and treat the municipalities in accordance with their particular realities, not a generality that limits the capacities of our own institutions for action. But probably more resources are needed; i.e., generated a certain architecture or legal possibilities, we will have to have resources to be able to carry them out, and we are extremely concerned that no one will say how these resources are going to be obtained. We believed that the tax on big fortunes would be a good opportunity to get more money to then redistribute it, and above all to balance the historical inequality that allows the twenty-three richest fortunes of Spain, the ultra-rich of Spain, to have won during the crisis, in three months, 19,200 million euros, this says Intermón Oxfam and this has happened in three months. And it seems to these people that they do not have the arrests or the gallantry necessary to propose an exceptional tax to them and to get so redistributed. Because we don't understand how we want to raise 7% more tax if we don't generate new tax figures. It is very good to pursue tax evasion, even to make tax avoidance difficult, but, given the Spanish state's results to achieve it, one can only be skeptical. So - and I am finishing - what we are proposing is that the Budget Stability Act be rendered ineffective and that of course it has particular readings, and of course what cannot happen is that we remain subject to a law that impoverishes us as a society, and that, above all, it impoverishes most people, so that the twenty-three ultra-rich and a few more people can continue to dispose of their lives as they want but also dispose of the lives of all the people they exploit.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u101	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u102	Thank you, President. In February we discussed this proposal for a law to reform Organic Law 2/2012, on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, specifically proposed the amendment of Article 15.6 to allow the rejection or veto in the Senate of the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt to be lifted by Congress by a simple majority and, therefore, to return to the drafting of the Law of 2007. This group voted in favour of the inclusion and today we are discussing two amendments in full in this regard: one from the People's Parliamentary Group, which claims that Article 15.6 remains the same as the reform carried out by this group in 2012, that is to say, by adding to the Senate the House of Territorial Representation collection. In short, it again leaves the approval of the deficit targets or the deficit path in the hands of the Senate, that is, in the hands of a House whose function has normally been of second reading and without veto capacity, and they do so today also claiming the territorial function or representation. They say that, as deficit targets affect the budgets of the autonomous communities and local corporations, it is necessary to give them greater capacity, but you know that this is not true because the vote of the senators responds to the decision of the political parties to which they belong and not so much to the interests of the autonomous communities, and it was already seen in 2018 that when the deficit target of the autonomous communities was raised, the ones governed by the PP voted against. Honestly, you proposed this change in 2012 and advocate for your non-modification because normally your results in the Senate are quite better than here in Congress, therefore, basically for political reasons. In the case of the amendments tabled by the VOX Group, what they propose is that, if the deficit and debt targets are rejected by the Senate, they should return to Congress and be approved by this House by an absolute majority or, which is the same, they should open the door to a political blockade in the case of new General State Budgets if we also take into account parliamentary arithmetic. So, a bit opportunistic. Moreover, the amendment of this article does not, of course, lead to a deviation, as has been said here, from the deficit targets per se, because the failure to amend this article has so far failed to meet the deficit target with any of the governments, neither the PP nor the PSOE, nor does it entail per se more expenditure because it depends on the general budgets of the State to be approved, and does not mean that an expansive policy of responsible expenditure cannot be pursued, together with a fiscal consolidation plan. As mentioned here today, article 135 of the Constitution also made this Law on Stability possible and we have already seen what that Law proposed: measures which were in principle temporary and which have become permanent but which have meant austerity and inequality. All this being said and apart from other justifications, we are going to vote against the amendments as a whole because it is of course necessary to eliminate the exceptionality that exists around the rules relating to the spending ceiling and deficit targets, to avoid the veto of the Senate and that it acts as a second reading chamber and for these rules to be governed by the general regime that is applied in the courts to pass the laws. I conclude by referring to an anomaly that may be negative for the approval of a general budget of the State whoever is in the Government and more in this situation of COVID. However, we are going to vote against it, as we have said, although we must remember that there is a need for reform or repeal of this law that goes beyond Article 15.6. In that sense, we are going to ask that the spending rule be changed, because we know that the limitations that the spending rule has what they are doing are preventing the municipalities from using their surplus, using that money to alleviate the consequences of COVID, for the well-being of citizens, to improve people's lives and, therefore, to put them at the centre. Of course, municipalities or local entities cannot be treated as minor entities to be protected when they have complied with this spending rule, the rules of stability, and more so when Europe has now opened up the possibility of inapplicability, the suspension of the Budget Stability Act. We have been listening to them for a long time to say that they are going to make this rule of spending more flexible, that this rule of spending is going to be abolished, and we believe that words are enough and that we must go to the facts and, at once, if we do not repeal the Stability Act, at least change that rule of spending, as I have said, so that the municipalities can use the surplus for the welfare of the citizenry. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u103	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u104	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today once again the bill which aims to eliminate what is known as the Senate veto on the spending ceiling, a prerequisite for having budgets. Under the apparent aridity of these accounting issues, however, there is an exciting X-ray of our democratic system and the chronicle of the powerlessness of the Sánchez government. In the course of this rule we have been able to see the rigidity and inflexibility of the People's Party, the bleak budget of the PSOE, the spurious use of institutions by Sánchez, the use of macho violence for a political survival maneuver, the populism of promising the impossible and letting others assume the costs of being irresponsible, and also, why not say so, the difficulty of making the moderate exit proposed by Citizens hear among the cries of bipartisanism, but that as soon as an opportunity is given it is revealed as the most sensible proposal among the maximalist positions. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand we have the People's Party, one of the contracting parties of bipartisanism, which used its absolute majority in 2011 to impose the Senate veto on the spending ceiling. This not only represents an anomaly, but also has neither a legal nor a logical basis and allows the deficit path to be vetoed, but not budgets, giving more importance to the part than to the whole. Guess who had absolute majority in the Senate at the time: the People's Party. At the other end we have the PSOE, which has drawn the worst out of itself with this veto, coming to present irregular budgets as they did not meet the spending ceiling actually approved. Not content with that, he sent these same budgets to the European Union, with a gap of 14 billion, which we will see if this irresponsibility does not create us any problems with the European aid we need at this time of crisis. But it is that, to top it off, the PSOE tried to cover up an amendment to remove the Senate veto from the spending ceiling on an initiative against male violence. Yes, against macho violence, ladies and gentlemen. This reminds us a great deal of the way in which you used the decree of the economic shock plan against the coronavirus to sneak Mr. Iglesias through the back door of the CNI Commission. Despite all these schemes, citizens did not logically fall into the trap of the Government, although it is true that we agreed that the Senate veto should be debated. A year ago, when the Socialist Party proposed to remove the Senate veto, the PP had a majority in the House and we feared that its proposal would only seek to approve budgets that would be horrific for Spain. Today the thing has changed. The Socialist Party does not have a majority in the Senate and then we rule out the possibility that this reform is aimed at a party objective. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, you cannot present yourself as the sole guarantor of budgetary stability under the formula of: either me or the mischecking of public accounts. It has nothing democratic to try to torpedo by system the accounts of a government of opposite sign. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, we shall vote against your amendment as a whole. In addition, the Socialist Party and Mr Sánchez have to assume once and for all the responsibility to govern and square their accounts. It is not worth spending without tine and having it fixed by anyone who comes behind or promises the moon and let the bad ones be others. Sánchez must face the citizens of his departures and expenses without the excuse of blaming third parties. Let me tell you what the position of Citizens is, which proposes an intermediate exit between the two positions of bipartisanism. Citizens propose that the Senate veto may be lifted by Congress not by a simple majority or by an absolute majority, but by three-fifths of the House. It is a reasonable proposal - we understand - and that is why we will abstain from the VOX amendment. The Senate, ladies and gentlemen, must count, of course it must. Citizens have been very critical with the Upper House precisely because we do not want it to become an empty House of functions, of which the Spaniards only receive the expense it entails; therefore, it seems to us that we must give value to their opinion, especially on the expenditure ceiling, and force the government to present accounts with enormous consensus to contradict it, because that is why this debate, of consensus, is going on, ladies and gentlemen. We are facing an economic crisis with very serious consequences and while the Government refuses to present the budgets, we continue with those of Montoro and Citizens, which were approved three years ago and which are very good, but cannot be eternal. Moreover, today we need to face an unprecedented economic crisis. The prospects are not good. We have a government with no credibility, the worst half-year in terms of employment since the 2008 crisis, we are suffering a historic fall in gross domestic product and the worst is yet to come. Fortunately, liberals, conservatives and social democrats are making a common front in the European Union that will certainly serve to show the union of political parties in Europe. Gentlemen of the Government, we have reached out to you to abandon the 'podemization' of the economy and to open up to great consensus with the opposition, to moderate and good agreements for the vast majority of Spaniards. Correct and think big. Now's the time. Spain needs long-standing accounts that are already worth it. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u105	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The popular representative, Mr Píriz, said that we do not believe in the Senate. Is that who believes in this Senate? Is there anyone who believes in this Senate? I'll give you two examples. Year 2015, People's Party, almost 7.5 million votes, did not arrive. With 28 % of the vote, it had 123 Members, 35 %; with 28 %, 35 %. In the Senate, with 28% of the votes he had 59% of the elected senators. Do you think anyone can believe in this Senate? Another example. Three provinces; I don't say them. One province, 95 000 inhabitants, another province 2.5 million inhabitants and another province 6.5 million inhabitants. Senators, that of 95 000 inhabitants, four; that of 2.5 million, four; that of 6.5 million, four. A senator in the province of 95 000 people cost 16,193 votes; in the province of 2.5 million it cost 390,000, 24 times more, and in the province of 6.5 million it cost 1,20,000, seventy-five times more. Can anyone believe in that Senate? Who does that Senate represent? We will therefore vote no to the two amendments, because that was a trap of trilers to distort the will of the people. And I want to insist, as other speakers have done, that the Stability Act does not allow municipalities to really help their citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u107	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mr. Errejón Galván.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u108	The VOX Member made an intervention in which she actually pointed out the crucial aspect. He asked: Would you vote against these amendments, that is, in favour of amending the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability regardless of who was in government? Yeah. Firstly, because this is an arbitrary measure. The Senate is given a very rare right of veto that it does not exercise for almost any other function. In addition, it is given to a Chamber that is the least like Spain, which is marked by an extreme disproportionateness that makes it look very little like the faithful representation of popular sovereignty. Secondly, because it is a re-centralizing measure. The Organic Law of Budget Stability is re-centralizing and serves for cuts. It forbids municipalities to spend money that is their only and exclusively because in Spain the recentralisation and cuts have always gone hand in hand. It is an absurd measure intended to stifle municipalism. Thirdly, because what we call fiscal stability and financial sustainability is a lie. Since budgetary stability and financial sustainability were approved, the sustainability of family finances has been less stable or more difficult. Life has never been less stable before. They are a set of policies that have failed as a result of which our country is not a leader in the sectors with the highest added value, specializes in the most devalued and precarious sectors of work and deepens in a system that is socially unjust and ecologically predatory. Finally, because it is an attempt to constitutionalize neoliberalism, that is, to leave even the shyest Keynesian policies outside the Constitution. What does this mean? Basically, the whole of a legal framework by which, voting for popular sovereignty, it will be very difficult to make policies in an alternative sense. It has been said before that we need general state budgets and I agree, but I do not agree that we need anyone. We need very concrete green reconstruction and social balance, because all policies - and this is very important to describe - are paid by someone. This policy called financial sustainability and budgetary balance was paid by the social majority and, overall, the working majority in Spain through a direct or indirect wage devaluation. The only possibility of a fair and green reconstruction is that it is paid by the person who has the most, and that happens, yes or yes, by a COVID rate that weighs at the 1% that has the most. One last point, Mr. President. We're talking a lot about consensus, but I think there's a trap here. The neoliberal reforms were all made without consensus; that is, to reverse them, it is required that there must be consensus, that is, that there must be a veto of any minority. We think it's the opposite. We have to rebalance the balance, and for that there is a majority, and then a consensus to redesign the new social contract we need. For that, as I said before, there is a majority now. To rebalance the balance there is already a majority and to demand consensus to reverse what was done without consensus is to give the right of veto to those who never gave it to minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u109	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote against the two amendments to the whole alternative text, because they are obviously regulatory, they are legal - if not, we would not be voting on them - but they have to bear in mind that they come from an amendment to the whole to a proposal for a law that was taken into consideration by 198 votes in favour. You can therefore understand that the 198 Members will not change their minds. [[The lady]] The truth is that if one looks at these amendments to the whole of the alternative text, they could have been perfectly treated as joint amendments. In fact, that of the People's Party is the same for the amendment to the joint text as for the amendment to the whole alternative text. Therefore, all we are doing with this is delaying the debate that really interests us, which is whether this legislative text is adopted or not. Can I tell you why we're interested? Because if you had made strict amendments to the text, at the moment this law would be in the Commission, and each of you has tabled the amendments you have tabled. Before, Mrs Oramas, quite rightly, referred to the words of the president of the AIReF in relation to the rule of expenditure of local corporations. Look, before the President of the AIReF intervened in this House, we have already tabled two amendments. We have tabled only two amendments to this text. And do you know what the amendments are? A new transitional fifth provision and a new transitional sixth provision. Transitional provision 5 new: The expenditure rule for local corporations in the years 2020 and 2021 will not apply. I believe that we can all agree on this and that it will be possible to adopt it quickly in the Commission. Additional new sixth provision: Remnants of treasury and surplus of local corporations for the 2019 and 2020 financial years may be applied without any limitation, only at the discretion of the local corporation itself. When one speaks and listens to the statements, we all agree with this. Therefore, if we all agree, let us proceed to vote on them. The truth is that one, who is a bit of a veteran in this house but innocent in his approaches, when he presents these amendments thinks: present them, but listening to the minister, listening to the government, listening to the Socialist Party and listening to Podemos are not going to do any good, because previously in one of these real emergency decrees these two petitions will have been incorporated. But the truth is that we are practically in July and they have not been incorporated, so they are certainly useful. If these amendments had not been tabled for the alternative text and had been put to the vote, this would already be discussed in the Commission and perhaps voted on. I therefore invite you to look kindly at these two partial amendments and I invite the Bureau to allow July to carry out, among other things, the processing of this proposal for a law. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u111	Thank you, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u112	Thank you, President, from the seat. We discussed for the umpteenth time in the last year and a half on the reform of the Budget Stability Act, in this case on the elimination of the article that empowers the Senate to veto the spending ceiling approved by Congress. We are going to vote against the amendment to the whole tabled by the right and the right, because we understand that it makes no sense for the Senate to veto the spending ceiling approved by Congress. I also take the opportunity to join the various spokespersons who have called for the release of the surpluses and the remnants of the municipalities. We understand that there is a great deal of consensus between the different political groups; now it is only necessary for the two parties that support the Government to create and execute it. At this time of greatest difficulty, the municipalities are doing a huge job in trying to help the citizenry in this pandemic and COVID-19 crisis; in fact, from the second and third week of confinement, there were queues in many social services of the municipalities and in many food banks. It makes no sense for billions of euros of the municipalities to remain blocked in the banks and not be available to the municipalities to help the citizens who need it most. We told the minister at her appearance at the Finance Commission that it was urgent to do so. Now we tell him it's too late. We also understand that we must take one more step. We argue that municipalities that generate deficits should be allowed during extraordinary fiscal years, if their financial solvency is permitted. The situation is exceptional, as I said, and they must be allowed to generate deficits. We cannot make the same mistakes the right wing made to get out of the 2008 crisis. We have to be braver, take a step further and allow the municipalities to generate deficit. In fact, in the coming days we will be presenting an initiative in this direction, which we will have the opportunity to discuss with the various parliamentary groups. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u114	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, President. Before starting with the text that I had prepared, I wanted to make a comment on what has been said here in this debate. I have heard Mr Píriz express a desire for restraint and, frankly, I do not think he has succeeded, but it is all right. All right, Mr. Píriz, don't hold back. This is the rostrum of Congress, and that is precisely what it is for. Explain yourself, don't hold back. Now that is, I will strongly ask you, when you are not in the rostrum, to be in the chair and not in the use of the word, there it is contained, because so far your verbal incontinence is prodigious. [[Mr Píriz Maya speaks words that are not perceived.]] This is the proof. You can't help it. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u116	I'm on it now. At a time when all the economic forecasts have jumped through the air, when no economist is able to anticipate anything yet, except that the deficit will be fired until it is not known what unknown heights, we are convened here today at the request of a couple of amendments to the whole presented from there, from the mountain, to the reform of the Organic Law of Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. It is clear that in an extraordinary context such as the current one, the prospective exercise that requires compliance with this law becomes a task I would say impossible. I already anticipate that any spending path that we eventually get approved will surely be unfulfilled, and it will be for the simple reason that none of us owns Dr. Brown's DeLorean, the only effective predictive tool that comes to mind in these uncertain hours that has touched us to live. Therefore, the debate on compliance with a certain volume of deficit or on the same procedure to determine it I would say that it has something out of time right now. It would seem more prudent and useful for our country to seek out among all of us a series of basic tax agreements, so that Spain can manage, over the next few years, this terrible and temporary occurrence, and thus save our already fragile welfare state. Moreover, anyone can understand the importance of coming to the European institutions, where the future of all of us is being addressed, as a country united in the tragedy, ready to assume and fulfil our commitments, of course, at the same time we have a decisive impact on a joint response to the crisis; in short, on the construction of a more united and equitable Europe. But no, there, the mountain dwellers have decided not to talk about the emergency call calling the whole country. They're wrong, they're wrong, they're wrong, they're wrong, they're wrong, they're wrong, they're wrong, they're wrong, they're wrong, they're wrong, they're wrong, they're wrong, they're wrong, they're wrong, they're wrong, they're wrong, they're On this occasion it is just a small stick on the wheel; they know that they have no chance of taking these amendments altogether forward. But that is the strategy of the mountain at the end of the day, turning all terrain of debate into a great Verdun, into a battlefield from which to wear down the Executive. On the one hand, the People's Party proposes to maintain organic law as it has so far. What's more, if an opinion of the Council of State pointed out and denounced oversized powers of the Senate in the reform carried out by Minister Montoro in 2012. It is a matter of being consistent with his minister, even though they are now the first to ask for the suspension of the very Montoro law, which limits the expenditure of local surpluses and in open coherence with the good of Cristóbal. They don't know what Montoro's staying with anymore, do they? The only thing we can ask you at this stage is that you do not at least look at Spain's interests in Europe in order to harden our country's access to such much-needed aid. That, ladies and gentlemen, is simply unforgivable, unforgivable; and I am sure that the Spanish and Spanish will know how to pass the bill on to them in the face of such irresponsibility. For its part, VOX is well aware of the above-mentioned opinion of the Council of State. In fact, it resists to grant veto power to the Senate, I imagine by the fractional tufillo that emerges, centrifuge, contrary to its unique and uniform image of that Spain one, great and free! that only exists in their heads. But, my goodness, this would mean agreeing with the government's reform proposal! And how they're going to make it easier in their permanent mobilization strategy! There's no truce here, is there, ladies and gentlemen? Long live the purifying fire! All for the homeland, but against the majority of the homeland. Finally, with the sole aim of disturbing, an absolute majority is invented to approve the spending ceiling in its procedure back to Congress, as set out in its text. And I say well 'they are made up' because, completely outside the constitutional doctrine, they obvious that the simple majority is the mechanism par excellence for unlocking parliamentary plugs; and it is also for decisions as important as the very Presidency of the Government of the nation. Therefore, if you say yourself such constitutionalists, stop hitting and hitting each other in the chest and head with it and, for once, open the Constitution and read it. In this sense, I listened to Mrs Cañizares before and after listening to her I think it is all due to great confusion. This argument that you have given that being organic has to be by absolute majority, let us see, Mrs Cañizares, one thing is the procedure for fixing one question and another thing is the question itself; the procedure goes on the one hand and the question itself goes on the other. I think you're out there mixing barbecues with merinas. Ladies and gentlemen, by law, the Government would have to submit a preliminary draft budget on 1 October. Let us focus on a constructive debate and make sure that we start next year having already offered certainty, certainty, to so many people and economic agents who depend directly or indirectly on the adoption of this parliamentary procedure. As I said before, this is not a sufficient requirement, but of course necessary. The country is not for Byzantine debates on the exact limits to public spending today to a great extent unpredictable and in the face of the phenomenal flood that we already have. Now's not the time to get caught up in a take those straws away from me. After this House has been unable to approve public accounts for three long years now, we cannot afford the luxury of a 2021 without general state budgets. You don't have to be too agile or too shower to understand this. National recovery will require that and much more. Anyone who isn't willing to tie his shoulder, unless he lets work. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, just a few months ago the current situation was unthinkable and unpredictable. The public deficit closed in 2019 for the second consecutive year below the 3% required by the European Union Stability Pact, despite the context of budgetary extension. Data from the first months of 2020 showed a deficit reduction of 13.9% by the central government and the Spanish economy grew above the European average; that was the reality. A trend that has been radically disrupted by the health emergency, an unforeseen and force majeure cause that has radically changed the economic scenario, hindering the reach of budgetary stability of public accounts in the nearest horizon, not only in Spain but in the rest of the European countries. As the AIReF acknowledged, the level of uncertainty caused by the global health crisis we are experiencing has no known precedents. The rapid recovery is conditional on the non-emergence of new rebounds and the definitive delivery of a vaccine. Faced with such adversity, in the face of the tension so well shaken by the right, the behavior of the citizens is being exemplary and courageous, and the response of the Spanish Government, responsible, coherent and up to the historical moment that we are living. [[Give it up.]] A coordinated response with Europe, with the autonomous communities and also with the municipalities; a response that is adapting to needs by prioritizing efforts to preserve health, save lives, protect jobs and incomes; a massive job to facilitate a social exit to the crisis that prevents its damage from persisting over time. Mr Píriz, your intervention disqualifies you in substance and in form. We all know that the exit from the crisis is a very different exit from what you did. We are strengthening public services in the face of the weakening that you have done. We are making - and it has been approved - a non-reimbursable fund for the autonomous communities that is being historic, a historical support to the autonomous communities. And let me also remind all of you that greater flexibility has also been sought for the application of social services investment, also for municipalities. He's trying to flexibilize, in the face of what you guys did suffocating the city halls. So, lessons from the People's Party, none. [[Give it up.]] By the way, what's this all about? To contextualise the situation in which we find ourselves, in which all this has an impact, has an important public economic effort which has as its first consequence, of course, that the objectives of stability already approved have been exceeded. It is therefore not surprising that, given the complexity of the moment, the debates of a fiscal, budgetary, economic and financial nature overlap. There are many open, even within the European Union. We are going to discuss budgetary stability, but today is not the time to discuss this. What we need to discuss is the amendment of Article 15.6 of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability - I remind you that it began now, just now, four months ago - and on which two alternative texts have been submitted. We are therefore confronted with the appropriate parliamentary procedure for the adoption of the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt, i.e. for the adoption of the general budgetary framework for action, a necessary budgetary framework also for dealing with the crisis. Therefore, the Socialists what we are defending is that it must be that which is in accordance with the general rule in the ordinary legislative procedure in Spain. In particular, we advocate that the possible rejection or veto in the Senate of these objectives may be lifted by Congress by a simple majority, just as can be done with the processing of the General Budgets of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, coherence is logical. [[Give it up.]] That is the fundamental question that we Socialists are defending, out of coherence and conviction. We have defended it, we defend it and we will defend it, a position that is founded for technical-legal reasons, but let me tell you that also in the interests of the general, and technical-legal interest, for consistency with the ordinary legislative procedure set out in our Constitution in Article 90.2. The current wording of article 15 of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability imposes a process that does not respect the position attributed by our Constitution to the Congress of Deputies and the Senate. Therefore, it is not a question of subtracting powers or functions from the Senate - what invention is that? - it is a question of recognizing a constitutional role for Congress. Stop spitting, they don't stop, they don't stop, there's no way! [[Give it up.]] But we also defend it for reasons of defence of the general interest. Look, the deficit and debt targets, voted on by the General Courts, determine and condition the budgetary process, as I said, but they are not more important than the budgets themselves; in fact, the budget is the most important economic policy instrument for the normal functioning of a country. The estimation and implementation of income and expenditure for each year is of significant importance in responding to the needs of citizens. Therefore, we do not share the alternative text proposed by VOX by requiring an absolute majority of Congress to ratify the approval of the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt in case of disagreement with the Senate. Therefore, if the absolute majority is not required for the approval of the general budget of the State, neither should we demand it for the approval of the stability objectives, which require a more agile approval procedure in order to comply with the commitments made by Spain within the European Union. Furthermore, article 134 of the Spanish Constitution recognizes the competence of the Government in the preparation of budgets; if the objectives are vetoed or hindered, it could even be excluding the exercise of such competence by preventing the commencement of the processing of budgets, leading to parliamentary blockades that are not in the general interest of the country, as has already been the case in the XII Legislature. I must remind you that in that case a path of stability followed by the recommendations of the European Commission was adopted up to twice by the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, where the various governments of the communities were represented. It was also approved by the National Commission of Local Administration and, despite having in addition the majority of Congress, the approval of the Congress was avoided, hindering the financial autonomy of the territorial administrations in the preparation of the budgets and putting the partisan interest of the right before the general interest, because by not allowing the approval of those objectives and the processing of the budgets the only thing they did was go against the interests of our country. In fact, what worsened precisely in 2019 the structural deficit was precisely the impossibility of approving updated budgets for 2019. Therefore, Madam President, in conclusion, do not blame the Government on this situation. Of course, with the irresponsible and disloyal attitude that some are having, what is clear, as they are demonstrating in Europe, is that they are harming Spain's interests. Therefore, and in order to defend the general interest, legislation should be amended to also help to facilitate the adoption of the budgetary framework and not to make it difficult. Therefore, stop being harmful to Spain's interests, let us amend in the sense in which the proposed law proposes it, since the Council of State also recognized in its opinion the reasonableness of the reform that we propose...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u119	Mrs. Blanquer, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u120	I conclude by saying that we will vote against the amendments to the whole alternative text tabled, and we do so for consistency, for responsibility and for restoring normality in this legislative procedure as well. Let us give certainty to the citizenry. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u121	Thank you very much. We'll vote in three minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have already cast the vote through the telematics procedure cannot do so again from their seats. Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] PROPOSALS NO LAW : [[VOTES]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which calls on the Government to hear the number of failures since the beginning of the Pandemia by the Covíd-19 in Spain. [[File number 162/000220]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. We started with non-law propositions. A non-legislative proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, urging the Government to audit the number of deaths since the beginning of the pandemic due to COVID-19 disease in Spain. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Groups in Congress and VOX. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 133 plus 214 telematics votes, 347; 50 plus 103 telematics votes, 153; 83 plus 103 telematics votes, 186; abstentions, 8 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u123	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON COMBATING THE NEGATIONALISM OF GENERAL VIOLENCE. [[File number 162/000134]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u124	No legislative proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to combat the negationism of gender-based violence. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 132 plus 213 by telephone, 345; in favour, 124 plus 167 by telephone, 291; against, 8 plus 46 by telephone, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u125	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u126	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion for an urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa, concerning the Government's position on the repression of political dissent in the Spanish State. The vote will take place on a point-by-point basis. We voted for point number one. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 133 plus 214 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 21 plus 36 telematics votes, 57; against, 109 plus 164 telematics votes, 273; abstentions, 3 plus 14 telematics votes, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u127	Point No 1 is therefore rejected. We voted for point number two. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 133 plus 214 telematics votes, 347; 24 plus 48 telematics votes, 72; 109 plus 164 telematics votes, 273; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u128	Point 2 is therefore rejected. Point number three. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 133 plus 214 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 5 plus 26 telematics votes, 31; against, 109 plus 165 telematics votes, 274; abstentions, 19 plus 23 telematics votes, 42.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u129	Consequently, point 3 is rejected. Point number four. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 133 plus 213 telematics votes, 346; 24 plus 49 telematics votes, 73; 109 plus 163 telematics votes, 272; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u130	Consequently, point 4 is rejected. Point number five. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 133 plus 214 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 8 plus 30 telematics votes, 38; against, 109 plus 165 telematics votes, 274; abstentions, 16 plus 19 telematics votes, 35.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u131	Point No 5 is therefore rejected. Point number six. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 133 plus 214 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 6 plus 26 telematics votes, 32; against, 111 plus 168 telematics votes, 279; abstentions, 16 plus 20 telematics votes, 36.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u132	Consequently, point 6 is rejected. Point number seven. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 132 plus 214 telematics votes, 346; 24 plus 49 telematics votes, 73; 108 plus 164 telematics votes, 272; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u133	Point No 7 is therefore rejected. Point number 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 133 plus 214 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 21 plus 45 telematics votes, 66; against, 112 plus 167 telematics votes, 279; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u134	Consequently, point 8 is rejected. Point number 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 133 plus 214 telematics votes, 347; 24 plus 48 telematics votes, 72; 109 plus 164 telematics votes, 273; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u135	Point 9 is therefore rejected. Point number 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 133 plus 214 telematics votes, 347; 24 plus 48 telematics votes, 72; 109 plus 164 telematics votes, 273; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u136	Point 10 is therefore rejected. - THE JOINT PARLIAMENT GROUP ON THE NEED FOR A SPECIAL PLAN FOR THE RECOVERY OF VACATED SPAIN AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE OBJECTIVES OF THE RECOVERY PLAN FOR EUROPE OF THE EUROPEAN UNION. [[LORD GIUTARTE GIMENO]] [[File number 173/000013]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u137	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno, on the need for a special plan for the recovery of emptied Spain and the demographic challenge, in accordance with the objectives of the European Union's European Recovery Plan. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist, People's Parliamentary Groups in Congress, Confederal de União Podemos-In Communal Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Citizens and Mixed, Mr Guitarte Gimeno. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 133 plus 214 telematics votes, 347; 125 plus 170 telematics votes, 295; abstentions, 8 plus 44 telematics votes, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u138	Accordingly, the motion as a result of urgent inquiry was approved. - of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, in order for the Minister of the Interior to explain the decisions taken within the framework of the Civil Guard. [[File number 173/000014]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u139	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Minister of the Interior to explain the decisions taken within the Civil Guard. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 133 plus 214 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 50 plus 101 telematics votes, 151; against, 78 plus 89 telematics votes, 167; abstentions, 5 plus 24 telematics votes, 29.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u140	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u141	Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 21/2020 of 9 June on urgent measures for prevention, containment and coordination to address the health crisis caused by COVID-19. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 133 plus 214 telematics votes, 347; 119 plus 146 telematics votes, 265; against 12 plus 65 telematics votes, 77; abstentions, 2 plus 3 telematics votes, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u142	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 133 plus 213 telematics votes, 346; 130 plus 207 telematics votes, 337; 3 plus 4 telematics votes, 7; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u143	It's approved. It will therefore be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u144	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposed Organic Law on Reform of Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 133 plus 213 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 8 plus 47 telematics votes, 55; against, 83 plus 112 telematics votes, 195; abstentions, 42 plus 54 telematics votes, 96.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u145	The amendment to the entire alternative text is therefore rejected. Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposed Organic Law on Reform of Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 133 plus 213 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 42 plus 46 telematics votes, 88; against, 91 plus 165 telematics votes, 256; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u146	The amendment to the entire alternative text is therefore rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting continues in a secret manner. Please close the doors and evict the stands. The meeting was suspended in a public capacity. The session shall begin in a secret manner.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-25-CD200625.u147	The meeting was resumed in a public capacity. The meeting rose. It was three and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
