ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the exclusion from the agenda of this sitting of item 6 of the oral question by Mr Tomás Guitarte Gimeno.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u2	Furthermore, in accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in the part relating to the calls for urgent questioning of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, which appears on the agenda as item 24, to be debated before the urgent inquiry of the VOX Parliamentary Group, which appears as item 23 of the agenda. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendments to the agenda were therefore adopted. Finally, this Presidency also reports on the amendment of the agenda to the effect that item 25, corresponding to the amendments of the Senate to the draft law on procedural and organisational measures to deal with COVID-19 in the field of the administration of justice, will be discussed at the sitting on Wednesday following urgent calls.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u3	We begin with the debate on the proposal for a law the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which amends Law 20/2011 of 21 July of the Civil Registry. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Fernández Benéitez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I am presenting myself to you on behalf of my parliamentary group for consideration of this initiative; a proposal for a law designed to reform and dignify the Civil Registry. If I may, I will appeal to parliamentarianism in its purest sense to bring to a successful conclusion not only the consideration of this law but all its parliamentary processing. Ladies and gentlemen, I am talking to you about this parliamentaryism that we sometimes forget, which we often see buried in vetoes, high-sounding statements and short-flight strategies. I am talking to you about the parliamentarianism of the agreement, about the parliamentarianism that makes this House the real driving force behind our country's progress. I am talking to you about parliamentarianism, which, thanks to the impetus, the word and the democratic confrontation, is able to transform our reality and make it more useful for the Spanish women. Today is the Civil Registry, but tomorrow will be other initiatives, other laws, other proposals. I would like us to demonstrate the ability of all the political groups represented in this House to reach agreements on justice, and I would like to remind you that there have already been two occasions when we overcame the disagreement: in the reform of Article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act and in the draft law on procedural and organisational measures to deal with the crisis in COVID, which, as you know, this week, tomorrow, are returning from the Senate to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, my group would like to appeal to this ability to find common positions that will make progress for all of us and which are also within the government. Without going further, the Minister of Justice before the summer proposed in the Senate that it was among his intentions to lead this law along the path of the agreement. That is why I ask you to look forward and do not let yourselves be dragged away by the currents of the blockade; you know that there is nothing less democratic than that. I ask you to lift the anchor and leave the cloudy waters in which some seem to be installed. I insist, I appeal to the capacity for dialogue that I know many of you wish to exercise because you know that our electorates are proud of us when we are able to reach agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is presenting a proposal to lay the foundations for a record of the twenty-first century. We are talking about one of the great pending reforms of justice, a pending account that we have to solve in order to unravel a problem that is really being addressed. I am convinced that this text that we are presenting today as a proposal for a law, as well as the agreements that we are reaching during the parliamentary process, is called to be one of the major reforms, one of the most comprehensive reforms of this legislative period; a reform, moreover, which aims to draw up a system that endures in time, a fair system, a system that is fair, transparent and that is up to European standards. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Minister of Justice presented the 2030 Justice Plan to the Commission in February, which unfortunately the pandemic has paralysed, despite being a very important and very urgent plan. In this regard, as you will recall, we adopted the decree-law and the subsequent draft law on organizational and procedural measures of justice, which has been the anchor for justice to be able to deal with the problems of the pandemic and even introduced some article to move forward in the work that now with this bill we must move forward. Look, even with all this, this Government has never stopped working for the justice we want. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2030 Justice Plan has three main strategic axes: access to justice, promoting the operational efficiency of the public justice service and digital transformation by increasing cohesion and territorial coordination. Given these postulates, the reform of our civil records is becoming particularly urgent. I also remind you that the legal vacatio of the 2011 Law will be maintained until the year 2021; therefore, the parliamentary work that begins today is absolutely urgent. That is why I again insist on my plea for responsibility and for the serious commitment I know this House has. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in our hands to build this strategic consensus for the necessary reform of the Civil Registry. Undoubtedly, the moment we are living today has left us that teaching: unity is progress; the fragmentation concerned, backward. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the inability to comply with the 2011 Act, which ended with the majority of civil registrations in this country, my parliamentary group intends to respond to the more than 8000 records that our country currently has, and that is why I am going to briefly derail our proposal. The Socialist Group's proposal is focused on implementing a public civil registration service that is totally free of charge, close to the citizen, with its judicialized management and with the support of the general bodies of officials of the Administration of Justice. It is a proposal that offers an improvement in technical and organizational aspects, with a view to a more efficient implementation of a model based on inter-office interoperability and accessible electronically, with sufficient capillaryness, where citizens do not have the obligation to travel in search of the office of Civil Registry competent to process their application, but can do so from any point of access to the Civil Registry, which may be access by electronic headquarters, by plays of peace or in the municipalities. In addition, by deepening the content of this proposal and, of course, we intend to introduce the progress that has been made in the area of electronic signatures since the enactment of the 2011 Act. Ladies and gentlemen, with this proposal we want to build a sufficient and guaranteed office structure to handle the workload, adding the possibility of increasing connectivity between registers in a flexible way and always with the participation of the autonomous communities, because through this proposal we will enable the implementation to have the collaboration of all the autonomous communities, not only those with executive powers in the field of civil registration. Likewise, we will ensure that the registry handling staff are always employed by the Justice Administration, keeping the offices of the Civil Registry as destination centres and respecting these workers. It is also important to note that the continuity of the public service has been foreseen during the implementation of these changes, providing legal certainty for a progressive implementation that is most rational and affordable from all points of view. Ladies and gentlemen, in the process of this law there is a dimension that we must not lose sight of, and that is that this law will be decisive for rural Spain, which will not be emptied; it will be decisive for equality and cohesion. The Civil Registry is much more than a legal office, representing fair access to a basic public service. It is clear that we must adapt to the new realities and take advantage of the advances that technology offers us, but, ladies and gentlemen, remember that there are peoples where guaranteeing a service makes the difference between resisting or disappearing. In this country, remember, ladies and gentlemen, the reality is very diverse. Far from the asphalt, where I come from, there are villages, small villages, pedanías, there are mountains, there are countryside, there are citizens who still fight with smartphones or tablets today, and this House and the laws, ladies and gentlemen, are also for all of them and for all of them. Let's never forget it. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes we build our speeches to do the opposite to another; speeches of response, confrontation of ideas, speeches intended to highlight political, ideological or form differences with the other, noting that we are not that other. Some even, led by an undemocratic instinct, perhaps blinded by hatred towards those who do not think like them, build up up up high-sounding speeches of confrontation or with much gesticulation, but today I wanted to present to you a speech that believes in the goodness of political action and parliamentary work; a speech that believes in the inexhaustible capacity of this House to work for the improvement of the lives of our neighbours and our neighbours. I am convinced that I will hear criticism of this proposal for a law and that these criticisms and model differences will be reflected in the presentation and in the Commission to deal with these reforms, but I am even more convinced that you will make these legitimate criticisms an element of improvement and progress. That is why my conviction is reinforced by the ability I expect of most of you to overcome those who make the conflict their way of being in politics, to put out the fires of words intended to generate hatred and to silence the cries democratically. That is the commitment of my parliamentary group and as such we are presenting ourselves to this House with this bill so that you, with your vote, will accept its consideration and that in the coming weeks we will jointly build a new law worthy of the Civil Registry. Let us leave behind the climate of confrontation, let us make this law an opportunity for it. I remind you of a song to Machado's hope that I like very much: Today is always still. We owe it to each other. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. He would welcome what seemed to be the final version of a Civil Registration Act enacted in 2011 and which, a decade later, had not yet entered into force, but the literal tenor of what had been mentioned in the explanatory memorandum by the Socialist Group could be taken seriously and that we were faced with a new toast to the sun when he pointed out that the entry into force was now intended to take place on the last scheduled date of 30 April 2021, without further postponements. As a pillar for a justice of the twenty-first century, as Mrs Fernández Benéitez said, it is moving forward with evident parsimony. Unfortunately, we are already accustomed to many rules adopted by the General Courts, the content of which is to move forward with the unalterable digitization of the public administration, being repeatedly delayed in its entry into force, and it is that not only does it require political will or kindness, as the honourable Member described, but that a careful analysis of the preconditions for the factual assumptions that the law provides for, as well as the rights and obligations that it prescribes for its content to be fulfilled in practice by citizens and administrations must be made beforehand. There is no point in adopting rules that are not complied with, no matter how laudable the intentions that declare their content. On the other hand, and in addition to the delay in its application, it is noted that eight amendments to a text that has not come into force show a poor legislative technique, it would not be possible to say whether the Government which approved the initial text or the Legislature with its successive amendments. I do not have the time to go into detail in each of the precepts of the proposed law, but in essence there are two objectives to which any legal change must aspire: the first is to improve the current situation and, the second, to facilitate the lives of citizens. I therefore fail to understand that a system cannot be established in which the civil registration number of a person cannot coincide or at least be incorporated or coordinated with that of the national identity document, in order to avoid one more number, one more key, one more password, which the citizen will certainly not have at his disposal when he needs it and which may involve an added bureaucratic procedure. With regard to the implementation and organization of the new system, it is now time to define and definitively establish the plans and forecasts that exist for bodies of as long a tradition in our system as are the Peace Tribunals, and that is because the registered functions they perform constitute a very important part of their workload. If they are progressively emptied of content, they are becoming merely residual organs. In this respect, the proposal does not clarify this situation, which would undoubtedly be very interesting for justices of the peace throughout Spain. Finally, the legislative amendments to take account of this proposed law include measures that may involve the alteration of economic and material resources that depend on other administrations such as local and regional authorities. We understand that the best implementation of the measures must assume that, within the legislative process, the necessary information and consultation is given to the agents and entities involved in the current provision of the service, in order to avoid major evils. I shall vote in favour of the consideration. Madam President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u8	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, a law of 2011, we are faced with a real legislative anomaly because a legal holiday that lasts ten years is not very normal, although I am afraid that it will have to be extended one more season. The Regionalist Party of Cantabria was the only one that was clearly opposed in 2015 to the original rule on two issues: first, because of the rejection of a possible privatization of the service in order to pass to the registrars of the property and, secondly, because it meant the removal of that service from the citizens who were separated from the capital, in addition to the clear requirement of gratuity. I echo the feeling of the municipalities of Cantabria because the Parliament of Cantabria, in a proposal of the Regionalist Party of 2017 approved unanimously, has already advocated for public and free maintenance, for a new computer management system to be implemented in line with the modernization of the Administration of Justice, without prejudice to maintaining the model of face Civil Registry, compliance with proximity and the carrying out of a prior study of the costs and the material expenses of the matter. Well, what we are discussing today substantially improves the current law, but it is not enough and does not contain some of the requests that the minister's team advanced to our advisor this July at the Lerma meeting. We are in favour of innovation and modernisation of the system - of course, this is not discussed by anyone - but we cannot agree that the service provided directly to citizens in small rural municipalities should be abolished without any transitional period. In addition, this model involves expenditure on material and technological means which the Autonomous Communities must assume and which were not included in the transfers. This is a transfer of powers which, like many others, does not entail its corresponding budget allocation. It would not be a very important expenditure for the central Government, but it would be fair to share it. If this comes into force on the scheduled date, there will be considerable administrative chaos: firstly, because the computer media and digitisation procedures are not prepared; secondly, because even if they are, a large part of the population is not familiar with the digital world and will be forced to avoid displacements, incuring expenses and difficulties that they do not have today. In Cantabria, for example, in addition to Santander, there are eight heads of judicial party and twenty-four justices of the peace who, in turn, collaborate with other seventy municipalities that have only the personnel that help and that are called ideal. With this law we will move from thirty-two offices to eight. In Cantabria there are currently thirty municipalities in severe danger of depopulation and eight on a second level, plus Villaverde. This is clearly in contradiction with the official rural depopulation speech and will cause the locals of the villages to leave behind if the services go away. It is a good opportunity, I believe, to make positive discrimination. I think this government does not learn; it will again have small municipalities against it. Last week, in a constructive spirit, I proposed a reform - I sent it to the spokespersons - of Article 135.4 in favour of local entities, which I hope they value. Today, despite being against it, we are not going to oppose the processing of this law, but we hope that the process of amendments can correct these shortcomings which I have been making briefly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u10	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. To begin with, it must be recognized that it is good news that the Socialist Party has brought here today. Taking into account the risks that existed until this moment of privatization, of re-centralisation, beyond something that we miss, the proposal we see with good eyes. It is committed to a public civil registry, digitized, telematics, close to the citizenry. If so, welcome. On the positive side, we see a two-speed proposal. One, moving forward in everything that has to do with telematic means, with digital means, typical of the 21st century and the present day in which we live, and this, moreover, makes us bet by overcoming some obstacles that existed so far. From the sections of birth, marriage, death and guardianship are now passed to the single integral leaflet. We think that makes it easier. He's getting into the telematics world. In the same way, some efforts were replaced by the administrations and the citizens could do them directly. Nothing to say. In addition, this is done by slowing down or blocking the will to close civil registers and by maintaining the number of public employees. In addition, the existing obsolete divisions that slowed down and hampered the operation are eliminated, breaking that model of competence and making it possible for the same Civil Registry to be able to resolve and register. What do we miss? A previous spokesman said this; on the subject of the courts of peace and even in the municipalities that, today, do some functions of Civil Registry, we believe it is positive that citizens can do in their own municipality the actions that, delegated by the civil registers, can do, that is, the so-called less complicated dossiers. And as the spokesman of the Socialist Group who presented the initiative in defending these municipalities of rural Spain said; if we do not want empty municipalities, we must provide services and believe that this can be facilitated through municipalities and courts of peace. Similarly, how can we not say that we are happy that this re-centralizing spirit will be brought to an end and that executive management will be chosen by those communities that are competent and those that are demanding it, so that it will also be the autonomous communities that decide on the number of civil registrations, the appointment of officials, staff, etc. That is why, following on from the claim of executive competence for both the Basque Autonomous Community and the Foral Community of Navarre, I insist that we see the measure with good eyes. That is why we will support it and bet on all the improvements we believe can be made to ensure a public service for citizens. Without further ado, I announce our positive vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u12	Thank you very much, President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group presents us with a partial reform of the Civil Registration Act, which will be the eighth since it was adopted in 2011, and to this we must add that we are in the sixth legal vacancy until 30 April 2021 regarding some of its contents, precisely those that have been most controversial since its adoption and which are now being addressed in a spirit of settling them. The last attempt was made in 2018 by the People's Parliamentary Group with another bill, harshly criticized by the now Minister of Justice when he was spokesman for Justice in the Socialist Parliamentary Group. And he did so, among other reasons, for one that is now also involved: to be an initiative of the parliamentary group and not of the Government, and also to violate article 561 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary by circumventing the report of the General Council on aspects included in the proposed law; a circumstance that now, despite the reform of that article in 2018, we also consider to occur. In short, we are now in the same situation as in 2018 in this respect: a discarnate text, without any file and without economic memory. On the other hand, the new model of civil registration in general terms, although with important exceptions, is shared by the Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party; that is, a de juridicized register whose conduct does not correspond to judges and magistrates, but which takes advantage of the experience and considers the rights of those public employees in the service of the Administration of Justice in a broad sense or, which is the same, maintaining the register in the field of the Administration of Justice, both in the human and material and economic media; a register based on a single personal record or record of chronological and computer support; a single but decentralized register; a modern register accessible to all citizens; and a register conceived as an essential and free public service overcoming privatizing intentions both in its competences and in its conduct. To date, one of the reasons for the successive extensions of the entry into force of the Registration Act has been the debate on who should be responsible for its conduct and organization, once the judges and magistrates have been relieved of their responsibilities in a role that they have played since the Civil Registry Act of 1870, which remained in 1957 until the adoption in 2011 of the current law - in which its administrativeization has taken place - complementary to the organic law reforming that of the judiciary. It now seems that the desirability of keeping the register in the field of the Administration of Justice in a broad sense has definitely prospered, and thus entrusting it to the staff of the general bodies of officials in the service of the Administration of Justice both to take advantage of their experience and to consider their rights and expectations, determining that the provision of human, material and economic means of the registers is on behalf of the autonomous communities with services transferred for the provision of those means of the Administration of Justice, as well as that the number of general offices of the registry, in addition to those of the capital populations of the judicial party, can be expanded or even grouped. However, since that maintenance of the registry in the field of the Administration of Justice, we believe that not all the consequences are taken away, but that the powers of autonomous communities such as that of Basque, and not only with regard to what has been done in the management of civil registers in the Basque Country and other autonomous communities since its management took place in 1987 with the transfer of human, material and economic resources to the Administration of Justice, but also that its powers are modulated downward with respect to other autonomous communities which, such as Catalonia, Andalusia, Aragon, Extremadura and the Canary Islands, in their reformed statutes have specified the matter of Civil Registry with respect to the rest of public registers, something almost unthinkable previously because the conduct of the Civil Registry was indistinct from 1870 to 2011, legally and materially, from its bearing by the judges and magistrates, and passed through the powers of providing the human, economic and material media to the service of these judges and magistrates. For the same reason, the decree on transfers to the Basque Country of the functions of the State Administration with regard to the provision of these human, economic and material means for the operation of the Administration of Justice also transfers the executive functions with regard to civil registration, as evidenced by the functions reserved by the General Administration of the State with regard to the registers of the Basque Country, such as the provision of standardized material for civil registration in the Basque Country. Now, the bill leaves the Civil Registry in the same orbit of human, material and economic means at the service of the Justice Administration, but we are told that we have substantially fewer powers than we have so far. That's why I said in 2018 in front of something similar that this was like The Cat-Pardus but backwards, that nothing changes but that everything is different. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not believe that we can support this, because, according to the proposal for a law, we will not be able to group registers or add them with the transformation, where appropriate, of some of the peace courts, but we will be obliged to surrender the facilities, human and material resources of the headquarters locality of those peace courts transformed into civil registers. Nor can we, as we have so far, call for resources and resolve them for the provision of registry officers either on a definitive or transitional basis, but we will be obliged to provide them with all the means and pay their payroll, that of them, of officers and of the rest of the staff at their service, as well as of their registry office, from resources and human resources to the administration of justice. In addition, the hierarchical or functional unit of the registry officers of the Ministry of Justice is established, subject to instructions, resolutions and circulars and to the sanctioning power, if they do not know them, without distinguishing the scope of the functional unit that may be logical, even convenient, to maintain the registry unit, but not for the entire development of the activity of the registry officers. And neither can we - I am finalizing, President - establish job relationships, the endowments of the registrars' offices, since these have to be approved by the ministry, which, by the way, does not happen now with the staff of the judicial offices, which will be the one who lent and lent, as hitherto, his activity in the registrars' offices.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u13	Mr. Legarda, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u14	Yeah, I'm finishing up. We believe that the proposal is a sudoku, because we do not know how it will be solved in cases such as that of the Community of Extremadura, which formally has the competence of registers but no transfer, and also formally has the competence of means at the service of the Administration of Justice and does not have any competence. Finally, and in conclusion, it cannot be argued that they have only full jurisdiction in the matter of civil registration who has them formally in their statutes and who deny the full exercise in the matter of registration to all the communities that have them transferred together with the human and material means to the service of the Administration of Justice, but who do not have them formally in their statutes when they are clearly recorded and deduced from their transfer decrees. Thank you very much, President, and I apologize for having exceeded me.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u16	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I can only begin today by saying that a week ago, last Tuesday, I came up to this rostrum to say that we had to change the form of appointment of the Office of the Prosecutor-General of the State, because if not, all of his decisions were always to be found under suspicion of the doubt as to what criteria or on what grounds his decisions were taken, whether technical or purely political, as to who had been the Minister of Justice and deputy of the Socialist Party. I have not been able to start in any other way on the basis of the news we have received this morning on the handling of the complaints in the Supreme Court against the Government of Spain. But in keeping with the question and in relation to what it is about - the reform proposed to us by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the Civil Registry - I have to say that, in fact, it can easily be summed up in the expression that we have a problem with the Civil Registry. If it turns out that the Government of the People's Party, through Law 20/2011, has put in place a system that has not entered into force in almost ten years, if it turns out that the Socialist Party has never, in the periods it has governed, tried to solve this problem, but that both have made that rugby play called the kick to follow, that is, to extend and extend and extend the entry into force without trying to solve the problems, it is that we have a problem. If the Constitutional Court, in the 2014 reform of the People's Party, said that the Civil Registry could not be privatized or if we currently find the civil registry community serving the civil records that are practically burning because they do not know if they are going to close the work centers where they are providing their services, it is that we have a problem. Anything weird? No, the last forty years, the bipartisanism of all life; that is, to make it easy, not to compromise the solution of difficult problems. Therefore, now, indeed, my group will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, despite the fact that there are many things that we do not like and calling for the generosity of the various groups in the Commission so that we can reach agreements and consensus in justice so that we can improve this law. I would very briefly like to go forward with the work of the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs by saying all those things which my group does not like, when - look how curious - some spokesmen who spoke before I agree with our opinion, also being in the ideological antipodes of Citizens. Because we must set aside in this reform any sectarianism, any dogmatism, any ideology. In other words, to register in a public register the status of single, married, widowed or divorced must the policy be applied? No, we simply have to apply technical criteria. This is what the Civil Registry does as an instrument that reflects the marital status of individuals in their relationship with the family and in their relationship with the State. Firstly, we are faced with an ambitious reform in the digitisation of registers. We are accustomed to the empty words of the Socialist Group, to those grandiose words of our Minister of Justice that remain in nothing, because in the end there is no money to put the system in place, because the Administration of Justice remains the poor sister of the budgets and, therefore, if there is no investment, we will not achieve this modernization of the registers. It says this text that it will be the ministry that will configure the computer applications to carry out the registration. Yes, but the autonomous communities with competence in material and personal means will have to put computers, staff and buildings, and in this matter we cannot accept inequalities anywhere in the national territory; there can be no first-class citizens and second-class citizens before the Civil Registry. They say they're going to digitize all the data that's been on paper since 1950. It is a huge job that will require a lot of money and the Minister of Justice will have to tell us in the Commission what he intends to do to incorporate all this data since 1950. It could also be a little more ambitious if we take into account that the first registration of the Civil Registry is of 1 January 1870 and the history of the Civil Registry is something very important for people. In the end, it turns out that the actual start-up of the digitization of the register depends on the Ministry of Justice issuing a ministerial order stating that the applications work; that is, that we are here in the Chamber, worrying about this issue and, in the end, the actual start-up, which is going to assume that there is money or not, will depend on a ministerial order, on the Ministry of Justice. As far as the organization is concerned, someone before me from this rostrum has said that the civil records in the peace courts are in jeopardy. In addition, the autonomous communities with executive competence or the Ministry of Justice itself may also regroup civil records in the heads of the judicial party. There's already been talk here about depopulation. Let us not deprive small municipalities of these important functions that neighbours can perform in their nearest administration. In addition, there are parts of the Spanish territory where the Spanish State is not, is not seen, has no competence and perhaps the only thing left is the Judicial Power and that act of registering your newborn son in the Civil Registry of your people. You say that the Organic Law of the Judiciary will govern the processes of staff coupling. Man, words have to be taken care of. This 'coupling processes' sounds frankly wrong in the text of the law, but since you are called the most progressive government in history, what is going to happen to the rights of officials working in the civilian registers that are going to disappear? Nor do we agree that the civil registry officer should be opened up to an official of group A1 who is not a lawyer of the Administration of Justice but who is licensed in law, because it is an organ of the Administration of the State. Lawyers of the Administration of Justice must be those who are at the head of the Civil Registry in charge, because they are public fedataries who can answer to the Directorate-General for Legal Security and Public Faith, and not other officials of other public administrations. There are many other technical improvements, but, above all, as the spokesman for the Basque Parliamentary Group has said - and you are absolutely right - the measure comes through the parliamentary group, rather than coming as a bill, with the reports of the technical bodies that know about the matter, and this goes against the normative quality of the laws. We agree with your proposal that the Civil Registry should be a public registry, universal and free of charge. This requires computer tools, coordination with the Ministry of Justice, and money and investment are needed. If so, they will have us on their side and we will be able to solve this problem by applying only technical criteria, although we certainly do not begin when we do not have the report of the competent technical bodies. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u17	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u18	Thank you, Madam President. The reform of the Civil Registry Act is essential to ensure that it remains a free public service that provides a service close to citizenship, but, in the opinion of the BNG, is not achieved by the text proposed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. It is a rule that again ignores the peculiar implantation of the population in Galicia and our peculiar way of inhabiting the territory with scattered habitat. The offices of the Civil Registry, now established territorially in all the councils through the courts of peace, run the risk of disappearing. The proposal implies that there would only be registration offices in the heads of judicial parties and that, on an exceptional basis, those existing in the peace courts could be transformed into additional general offices, where appropriate. We insist, do not understand the reality of Galicia, where the exception is the rule, given the characteristics of the territory, the difficulties of access and the distribution of the population. Compare: in Galicia there are only 45 judicial parties, compared to the 310 current registry offices, mostly municipal delegated registers. Do you really believe that this implies, as they say, an approach to citizenship and an adequate capillaryization? This possibility of transformation will depend in practice on whether the Galician Government is willing and able to bear the cost of maintaining the service. And keeping it at the municipal level, in our opinion, is essential in the face of the aging population and the poor connection of public transport between the councils and the capital of the judicial party. Many of the users are older persons who must necessarily go several times a year for different efforts, including mandatory life insurance for pensions received from third countries or for inclusion income; people who would have serious difficulties in telematically doing so or moving to the capital of the judicial party. Therefore, maintaining this proximity service is essential and it would be a huge step back to centralizing it. In addition, the closure of local offices poses the added problem of where to concentrate the archives of all these municipalities. The books and staff of the municipal registers cannot be moved to the Court of First Instance, where there is no longer room for those who manage them right now. The system is still not fully computerized and records have only been digitized since 1950. What they are proposing, therefore, remains wrong, less than what is provided for in the 2011 Act, which purported to have only six offices throughout my country, but at least in Galicia it remains disastrous to advocate this alternative. This is further evidence that only from the knowledge of our reality can it be properly managed and, therefore, the logical thing would be for the competences in this matter to be fully - fully - transferred to Galicia. The BNG will vote in favour of the consideration, but we hope that these aspects, at least, can be changed in the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the annals of Spanish legislative history there are few larger misconceptions than the Civil Registry Act of 2011; a law that has not yet entered into force, as has already been shown, with successive extensions, with different amendments during your statutory vacation and to which we could certainly call it a legislative abortion. If we take a law student and tell him to make a report on the status of the Civil Registry Act, we will surely trump his legal vocation. We share the view that, as provided for in the 2011 law, the Civil Registry should be de-jurisdictionalised; this has been advised in various recommendations by the Council of Europe; also various directives of the Cepey, European Commission pour l'efficacy de la justice or the Saturn guidelines, within the European Union, have said that everything that is not strictly jurisdictional must be removed from the Administration of Justice. But what is planned with this project is to undress one saint to dress another; that is, we misjudge him, but we take personnel from the Administration of Justice to serve these offices, with which we gain nothing and contradict the spirit of those recommendations. In addition, there is a tremendous competition dispute - the representative of the Basque Nationalist Group has shown - because most statutes do not have that competence, but they will have to provide the material and personal means for the operation of these offices. From the formal point of view, Mrs Fernández, who was calling for good parliamentary action, I would like to remind you - and I have also been told by other groups - that you belong to the Socialist Group, a group to which the President of the Government and the Minister of Justice belong, if I am not mistaken, and I think it is a fraud of law, as far as legislative technique is concerned, that a proposal to amend a law promoted by the group supporting the Government is made by means of a proposal for a law, thus avoiding, as has been shown, the need for mandatory reports, the prior hearing and the much-needed economic memory. Why has the 2011 law failed? To a large extent, because it was not accompanied by a vital economic memory so that all this could be put into operation. As I was saying, we believe that the law of 2011 is an abortive creature and that with this new patch we will not be able to solve it. That is why our group is going to vote against it. I urge you to submit to the Government a draft civil registration law that passes through all the mandatory procedures of reports, economic memory and public hearing, that comes to the Congressional Justice Commission, where we can discuss it in paper and in the Commission, and that a model that is respectful of the European guidelines is adopted, but that is also effective and that does not have the counterpart, as the current model has, to further harm the already damaged situation of the Justice Administration. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u21	Thank you very much, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u22	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We could summarise our position on the bill put forward by the main party of the Government by saying that it is late and insufficient. It is not enough for what they have brought us to the plenary today to take a really significant step forward in the consolidation of an effective and functional civil registry that guarantees the rights of citizens. In Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya we have a model of proximity justice that is committed to mediation, that is rooted in the territory, that has a vocation of public service and that is guided by the objective of being the last dam of containment against inequalities. Well, we insist that this bill is not enough. In fact, as has already been said, it has no legal logic whatsoever that this initiative should not be presented in the form of a bill by the Government, as it is not accompanied by any of the necessary and essential procedures. Anyway, the truth is, despite all that, we're not going to veto your consideration. Firstly, because this is an urgent matter which must enter into force on 30 April 2021, and we must put an end to the unsustainable situation of transition in which we have been immersed for almost nine years. One cannot continue to apply a 1957 regulation. Therefore, out of political responsibility and commitment to the citizens, we feel the obligation, regrettably but obligation, to announce our support for the consideration of this bill, waiting and demanding that the groups of the Government be prepared - and have announced - to dialogue, agree and make improvements, because this text needs to be improved. First, we must dignify, value and give wording that takes into account the courts of peace. The inclusion of career and legal officers of the Administration of Justice as a means of access to the positions of civil registry officials represents a step forward; it means overcoming that centralist vision that had prevailed so far, which was at the time raised by the PP. However, it is not acceptable for the peace courts to become additional general offices, since in practice this would be nothing more than emptying palm functions. A judicial system of cohesion and proximity cannot be built without a strong stake in the peace courts and giving them a new impetus, providing them with structure and budget, and disbursing them from their administrative functions. We insist, bet on the resolution of conflicts kilometre zero, rooted in the territory, which resolves much of the everyday conflicts of citizens. Secondly, and in another respect, it is not much to ask that, at least in the proposals for legislation of a very technical nature, such as the one before us, they refrain from carrying out competitive invasions, because it saddens them to see how they claim that administrations with executive competence, such as the Catalan one, cannot carry out the appointments of those responsible for the registration. Thirdly and lastly, we want to refer to an issue that does not foresee and should provide for this legislative proposal. We are talking about the need to put an end to the bureaucratic viacrucis that is generating innumerable damage to many fellow citizens who are carrying out the formalities to obtain nationality. Well, it turns out that these people, after taking all the necessary steps to obtain a DNI, stay for months without having the nationality. And why? Because they don't give them time to swear. In other words, people who have carried out all the necessary procedures to obtain their nationality and already have the file closed with affirmative resolution remain months and even years without effective consideration of Spanish citizens, with all the consequences inherent in this in the fields of work, housing, health and political rights of active and passive participation in the elections. It is curious that those of us who are neither Spanish nor do we feel impose this nationality on us and, instead, those who want it and meet all the requirements, are made impossible by a bureaucratic requirement that is difficult to explain. They want to be Spanish! That it's us who don't want it! It is therefore their duty to offer solutions or, at least, not to make life more complicated for people. That they are not blinded by any Spanish nationalism, that they legally validate this procedure automatically and that the solution is directly associated with the affirmative resolution of the file. And I'm done. The governments of the PP and the PSOE, the PSOE and the PP, the PP and the PSOE succeed in this state, but some shortcomings always continue, and we are referring not only to the lack of capacity to reach consensus such as the Civil Registry but also to democratic issues. And it is that in the procedure of taking into consideration the proposal of law that the PP presented in 2018 to amend the Law of the Civil Registry, our companion Esther Capella, now the Honourable Councillor of Justicia of the Generalitat of Catalonia, began his intervention in the following way and I quote it textually: Today, one hundred and twenty days ago, Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez have been illegally deprived of their liberty and one hundred and three days since the Vice President of the Generalitat, Oriol Junqueras, and the Councillor of Interior, Joaquim Forn, have also been deprived of their liberty. Well, today, September 15, 2020, twenty months have passed and there has recently been a change of government, the most progressive in history, political prisoners continue to be kidnapped by the state and together with Cuixart, Sánchez, Junqueras and Forn, which I have already cited, are Bassa, Forcadell, Rull, Sánchez, Forn and Romeva. And today, from this rostrum - and we will not get tired, I also announce it - we say enough again, pull out political prisoners, release hostages, amnesty, self-determination and independence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Vallugera. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, I would like to mention a health issue, and it is that for at least twenty minutes we have seen Mr Ortega Smith-Molina sitting in his seat without a mask, failing to comply with the agreement that, both on the Bureau and on the Board of Spokesmen, we have given ourselves among all of us in the face of the impossibility of fulfilling the distance of security in this space. [[Applauds]] And the truth is, I don't know if they do it out of negationism, if they do it as a provocation to have a photo that's news directed precisely at their negationist audience, or if they do it out of simple stupidity, but I think the thing is serious enough not to play with these things. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, before I start the intervention, I want to make a little joke too, and it is that after listening to the representative of Citizens talking about the Civil Registry almost as the last bastion of the State in the territories where there is no State, I think we could almost change the historical phrase of putting a spike in Flanders by the more modern one of putting a Spanish Civil Registry in Catalonia or in Euskal Herria. Anyway... [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the need for a reform of Law 20/2011 on the Civil Registry has been a demand of our parliamentary group since practically our beginnings in this House. In fact, in 2017 we have already made our own reform proposal, although it has finally never been discussed in this plenary session; therefore, we have always considered it necessary to adopt the necessary improvements to the law that would ensure the proximity of the Civil Registry to the citizenry, as well as to ensure that the registry provides an efficient, free service, adapted to the accessibility requirements provided by the new technologies. With regard to the configuration of the Civil Registry, for example, our proposal has always been that the Ministry of Justice, in collaboration with the autonomous communities with competence in this field, should have the necessary computer tools to implement the single personal record, and to complete the computerization of management. With regard to the organizational model, we have also always advocated that the necessary adjustments should be made to continue to provide the citizen with a proximity service, establishing the precise mechanisms to prevent the drastic change in the system that would entail, by application of articles 20 and 22 of the 2011 law, the disappearance of 321 civil registers, from the 431 existing to only 107. With regard to the conduct of the Civil Registry, lastly, we have always proposed that the provisions of the rule should be specified in the figure of the lawyer of the Administration of Justice, giving him the status of the registry officer, which would allow those lawyers, assisted by the staff of the official service of the Administration of Justice, to assume the conduct of the registry, thus taking advantage of the accumulated experience of some in the service of the Civil Registry. We believe that to a large extent, although with nuances, these demands and some others have been met by this reform proposal that we are debating today, so, and although with the intention that the rule can be improved during its processing process, we will vote in favour of its consideration. However - we have to say this too - we have failed to see that the drafting of this text would have had a greater dialogue with the rest of the forces, and above all with the social partners involved. As we know, and despite previous commitments, this has not happened and we believe that it will have to be corrected in the future, just as the trade unions themselves are already demanding publicly. We therefore believe that it is important, through these talks and their possible subsequent agreements, to give assurance and certainty to all those affected by the proposed changes, as well as to the whole population, that the reforms will not adversely affect neither the workers nor the quality, efficiency and proximity of the service. Ensuring that all employment and all offices of the Civil Registry, including all peace courts, will be maintained would undoubtedly be a great news for all, both for workers and for all users. We also believe that it is necessary to ensure that citizens living in populations that are no longer offices of the Civil Registry receive no worse service, with the excuse of modernization. It should continue to be possible, at least, to obtain certificates of birth, marriage and death from the local people, to obtain their faith in life, and to submit documents addressed to the general offices of the Civil Registry for the processing of any application or file. We also believe that it is appropriate, on the other hand, to introduce into the law the allocation to this public service of all proceedings and files on an exclusive basis, including marriage files and applications for nationality by residence. Finally, there is one element that worries us and that we would like to find an effective solution before the law comes into force. We know that all information from current books must be transferred to a single personal sheet. Currently, 90% of books have been digitized since 1950, but nothing has been digitized since 1950. This proposal for a law provides in some way for total digitization to, once done, transfer the data to the new single personal sheet. However, there is no time frame for this, and we understand that, as a long and costly process, this could lead to problematic duplication as long as the books are in physical support only certifications can be issued at the office where they are located. It would therefore be desirable to clarify the time limits; it would also be desirable for the law to establish clearly that until the full digitization of the register the peace courts would continue to practice registration and issue certificates as hitherto. In our view, it would be a mistake for the same person to have a part of his or her marital status data in his or her only personal record and another part in the physical books of the current sections, at least for the living people we believe that a period of prior and determined digitization should be established before the entry into force of the single record. In short, although we are going to vote in favour and appreciate most of the content of the proposal, we still have some concerns and doubts that we hope will be resolved throughout the parliamentary process, which will begin after the adoption of its consideration. I have just finished, not without remembering something that I consider important: that we cannot and must not listen deafly to the criticisms made by the Ombudsman regarding the functioning of the Civil Registry, in his annual report of 2019, some criticisms that unfortunately have become even more meaningful during this pandemic. These problems and deficiencies in the civil records reported by the defender - obsolete dependency, lack of personnel and without computerization - and which he pointed out as factors leading to the collapse of these offices, are another example of the consequences of the cuts in public services, a remorse of this last decade of austerity policy that as in so many other cases we must leave behind. A strong State will only be able to do so if all its public services are properly financed and adequately equipped with the human and material resources necessary for its operation. For the Civil Registry, as for all our public services, from our parliamentary group we also claim it and, as it could not be otherwise, we will also fight to make it so, because there is no healthy democracy without strong, free and quality public services. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u25	Thank you, Mr. Honrubia. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u26	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Socialist Party is coming here with the face of a slaughtered lamb, with very good words, very kind, and it is asking all the groups in this House to vote in favour of its proposal for a law. It would be a pleasure for this proposal for a law of your parliamentary group to be so kind and to be drafted and with as much pleasure as the words you are pouring here, but the reality is that this proposal for a law is an authentic chapuza, and we find ourselves with a chapuza that sadly is not the first in this matter, it is the sixth. You propose an amendment to the Civil Registry Act 20/2011, a law that by the way passed the nefarious and sloppy Zapatero. [[Applauds]] It was a law that originally had three very clear objectives, which were the judicialization of the Civil Registry, its computerization and, lastly, its conversion into a more efficient structure than it was, since the former law, which was nothing more and nothing less than the year 1957, which is the one that is in force today by the successive parts of the governments of the PP and the PSOE, provided for a totally opposite, judicialized, paper-based, legacies and archives, and capillaryized throughout the structure of Spain and the whole nation, corresponding to that analog structure that we had. Well, the reality is that you come here and basically leave your 2011 law empty of content in two ways, and I explain myself. First of all - this is a point that is very important to mention, as other groups have already mentioned, and given the criticism that is falling to the Socialist Party - your parliamentary group comes and presents a proposal for a law precisely to avoid all reports and mandatory opinions, to try to paste all Spanish in cover a legislative amendment that empties of content to the Civil Registry Act. Why the emptiness of content? Because again on cover they introduce a new extension, one of those legs that was the computerization of the Civil Registry. In that transitional provision, the fourth of its proposed law leaves the entry into force of the computer system at the dawn of the Ministry of Justice, that is, a third of the law of 2011 has been removed from a pen, and here we have to make another paragraph, because successive governments, both of the People's Party and of the Socialist Party, have a serious problem with computer systems. So much so that our sad Justice Administration has to fight with fourteen different computer systems, which are incompatible with each other. The situation of computer science in Spain and legal certainty is sad. The second question that we find in your rule, which also empties the old law of 2011, is that autonomous turn that you give it, because if it were approved today as is your proposal to amend the law of 2011, we would find that the autonomous communities begin to have a capacity to regulate, first the physical structure of the registry, and second, the staff that works and takes care of that registry, so that you begin to walk the way that the registry, which was unique to all Spaniards, unitary and equivalent, can become seventeen independent registers. In other words, they want to transfer the problem of the computer system of justice to the entire system of the National Civil Registry. Sad situation and again a bump. As I was telling you, both the PP and the PSOE, in everything that involves this Civil Registry, have gone from huddle to huddle, first the nefarious Zapatero wanted to aim a little and put the cart before the oxen, approved in 2011 a law for which there was no technical training yet, and when the People's Party arrived, instead of facing the challenge with that law and assuming the computerization of the Civil Registry, decided to extend the entry into force of this law, and that did up to three times, not one or two, but three. And the Socialist Party, its government, has already postponed the entry into force of this law until twice, and places us the third in hiding so that the Spaniards do not realize. By the way, it is worth it to both parties that in ten years and with 400 million euros spent to implement this computer system they have not yet been able to put it on the ground, and have not been able to do so because their strategies only look at four years in view, focus on a purely electoralist strategy that aims to achieve success in the next elections, adjust to the chair with the maximum possible fixedness, and forget about the Spaniards, forget about the needs of the Spaniards and forget about what is good for Spain and what is good in the long term. That is why the VOX Group, which is looking for the good of the Spaniards and is thinking about the future of Spain, is forced to vote against this proposal, and if necessary we will present the corresponding amendment to the whole with alternative text. And since I still have a few minutes left, I will speak on some technical issues that affect this law. You lose the opportunity to ensure that it is the lawyers of the Administration of Justice who, with your knowledge, manage the Civil Registry; you lose the opportunity to recover the family books, which were a perfectly implanted and perfectly useful instrument of the Civil Registry in Spain, and you lose the opportunity to confirm the basic character of the registrations and therefore leave the door open for your nationalist partners to begin to regulate on this and thus empty the Spanish Civil Registry, which is ultimately the basis of legal certainty. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u27	Thank you, Mr. Figaredo. [[Pause.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Merino Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u28	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Although it seems otherwise, we have begun the plenary session with the consideration of the proposed law amending Act No. 20/2011 of 21 July 2011 on the Civil Registry, a law, by the way, of enormous complexity, which was the result of the radical change implied by its previous regulation of 1957 and which, as has been said, has suffered, as has been said, several postponements of its full force, which no one has, by the way, said. The last postponement was the sixth, in Royal Decree-Law 16/2020, during the state of alarm, in its second additional provision, which postponed it until 30 April 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, our People's Parliamentary Group has on several occasions expressed the need to promote an agreement for justice, also in order to amend the Civil Registry Act and, in particular, on 5 December 2019 the People's Parliamentary Group has already registered a proposal for a law amending Law 20/2011 of 21 July on the Civil Registry, precisely what we are debating and which can help to achieve political consensus on this amendment requested by the Member. So, out of consistency, ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration and, of course, with the aim of improving the text in the process of amendments and papers, mainly through some points that I will briefly mention: a Civil Registry as a free and modern public service; a Civil Registry with sufficient resources and offices. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, this is of utmost importance to the People's Party, because this vote in favour has a red line: the maintenance of the current network of offices of the Civil Registry. What does this mean? For they will have the votes against the People's Party and thousands of mayors and mayors of Spain if they are harmed in their municipalities and localities with the reduction of the offices of the Civil Registry. Remember that last week, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, they challenged municipalism and lost. I understand you won't stumble on the same stone again. Therefore, listen and follow what I am going to say: shield by law the current network of offices of the Civil Registry, because today we are telling you loud and clear: we want them in the same localities where the headquarters of the current civil, municipal and peace registers are located. All that is suppressing offices will not count on the vote in favour of the People's Party. Finally, we want a Civil Registry that takes care of and recognizes the workers of the offices. Moreover, today from the People's Party we want to recognize that work, because they too have been in the first line of battle during the pandemic, and it was they who certified on April 30, 2020 the actual number of deaths by coronavirus. [[Applauds]] That is why yesterday my group registered a committee of inquiry into the management of the government's coronavirus pandemic. Because it goes from the July 5 lie of'stronger exits' to the truth of more than 53 000 people killed by coronavirus and more than 500 000 infected. This is also said by the Civil Registry. I also take this opportunity to announce that we have asked the Minister of Justice to appear to fulfil his own commitment, when he said that he would do so in the Committee on Justice after six months of his mandate to explain these and some more sensitive issues. Because, honourable Member, it is impossible to reach agreements in court while the independence of judges and magistrates continues to receive attacks from the vice-president of the Government of Spain, who is very serious, and more in his capacity as an investigator. It is impossible to reach agreements in justice while - as has already been said here - the State Attorney General, former deputy and minister of the Socialist Party, sends out signals of dubious objectivity in her actions. The last one yesterday, pleading and pleading for the Supreme to reject the complaints against members of the Government for the management of COVID. As the Minister of Justice said in an interview this Sunday: it is not a question of whether or not we like the Members of the People's Party the prosecutor. Perhaps the President made it clear: on whom does the prosecution depend? Who does it depend on? Well, that's from the government. That is why it is impossible to reach agreements and the minister will have to appear. And it is also very serious what we knew on Sunday: that we are already working on the reform of the crimes of sedition and rebellion to enslave independence, separatism and whitewash the pardons. As Vice President Iglesias himself also acknowledged on Sunday in an interview: Pardons? There are things that for it to happen it's best not to talk about them in public. Well, look, with light, stenographers, and in the Congress of Deputies, let's talk about this. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] And the minister has to appear for something that is already immoral - disgusting, I would say -: the simple fact of having to sit with Mr. Otegi. I do not know what to do, but you will have to tell us about it in Parliament as well. [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. You know, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that when you move away from the positions that break the constitutional framework; when you move away from the positions that attack the independence of justice; when you move away from the positions that break the rule of law, we will be ready to reach agreements for justice, always under the protection of the Constitution, as Mr Married has always passed on to Mr Sánchez. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u29	Thank you, Mr. Merino. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ORGANIZATION FOR AMENDMENT OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 6/2002 OF 27 JUNE, OF POLITICAL PARTICULAR PARTIES. [[File number 122/000016]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u30	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the Parliamentary Group VOX, an organic amendment to Organic Law 6/2002 of 27 June 2002 on Political Parties. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor for the presentation of the initiative. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day for the VOX Parliamentary Group and it can also be a historic day for the whole of this House. Today we all have an unusual opportunity here: the opportunity to take decent and essential steps in defence of our democracy; for that is what we have come here for. Democracy is a concept that the left has been manipulating for years, not without some success. Democracy as a government of the people, for the people and for the people is a delicate balance that is maintained only when a unilateral and revolutionary vision is avoided, which is precisely typical of the radical left. So let me start by remembering what a true democracy distinguishes from that which is not, because democracy is not just voting every four years. For example, in Cuba, parliamentary elections are held every five years, but few would qualify Cuba as a democracy. Well, I know some of you do. Democracy is to ensure that public authorities are subject to the law. Without law there is no democracy; therefore a democracy exists only if all power is exercised in accordance with the laws and respecting the rights of all, and it is not allowed to be modified or altered through an illegal referendum, with violent pressure on the streets or with terrorism. [[Applauds]] Democracy is to guarantee cultural plurality, not the imposition of those who seek, following Gramsci, to create a hegemony from the political elites in charge of education, culture and the media. A democracy worthy of such a name must have the necessary tools to defend itself against those who threaten it, especially when it is threatened by public media that stifle media and cultural pluralism, as he warned at the beginning of the 19th century Tocqueville. Undoubtedly, there is no democracy without pluralism, democracy feeds on freedom of expression and the role of political parties is essential in a democratic society, but it is no less true that, as the European Court of Human Rights of Strasbourg recalls, in its judgment on Herri Batasuna of 30 June 2009, a political party can campaign for a change of legislation or of the constitutional structures of the State with two conditions: the first, that the means used for this purpose are fully legal and democratic, and the second, that the change that is pursued is in itself compatible with the fundamental democratic principles. And there is the key, that the means employed are legal and that the purpose sought is in itself compatible with the fundamental democratic principles. Therefore, neither the terrorism of ETA protected in its political arms - call itself Herri Batasuna or Bildu - nor the coup d'état in Catalonia, perpetrated jointly by the separatists of the left and right with its innumerable acronyms, all allies to cover up their shames of the Pujol era; nor the Ibarretxe Plan of the PNV nor any of these threats fit into our constitutional structure, because what they seek to impose, that is to say the rupture of Spain, is in itself incompatible with the fundamental democratic principles, beginning with the principles of the beginning of the Constitution. In fact, it is no coincidence that these principles conform to the first words of the Spanish Constitution, Article 1.2: 'National sovereignty resides in the Spanish people, from whom the powers of the State emanate'. The Spanish people as a whole, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore the subject of national sovereignty. Article 2: 'The Constitution is based on the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards,...'. These first articles of the Constitution integrate their preliminary title for one reason, because they have the highest normative value. Therefore, few things can be more important for the Legislative Power, which at the end of the day is the one who drafted and approved our Magna Charter, than defending these principles and protecting the constitutional system of those who intend to end it. It is about protecting our democracy from one of its main enemies: nationalisms. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that many of you have lost some sensitivity to the presence of this threat. It's natural. For many years now, we have been whitewashing political and political positions that really pursue objectives that are incompatible with our legal system, with the nature of the task entrusted to us by the Spaniards. Some of these politicians have made you lower your guard because you dress elegantly, have a reserved suite at the Palace Hotel and have breakfast with exquisite manners. Someone else because he seems to be a great lord of Neguri, with the best intentions, and a reasonable capacity for dialogue. And others because, although they do not disguise their radicality neither in their appearance nor in their manners, you have simply become accustomed to seeing them around here, you have even become accustomed to negotiating with them the formation of governments as if they were bona fide negotiators, but they are not. Without a doubt, it is a success of nationalisms to have been posing as democrats all these years. Today they even dare to give constitutional lessons and hand out Democrat cards to others. I have no doubt that today you will claim to remove the Democratic card for the fifty-two of VOX with enormous astounding and thick words, but all of you know that in VOX we neither fear them nor grant them the moral superiority that others have granted them in the past. [[Applauds]] The king is naked, everyone knows it, although so far no one has told him. [[Laughter]] Nationalism is incompatible with democracy. I repeat, since it gives them so much grace: nationalism is incompatible with democracy. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] That's right. Those who deny the indivisible unity of the Spanish nation are outside the law, so clear and so simple. And if they are outside our Constitution, it is time for them to submit to the rules with which we play everyone else or abandon this playing field. It is true, nationalists, that no one had told you this for many years and perhaps that is why you thought that this was a closed debate, one more of that consensus progresses to which you have arrived thanks to your skill and that no one would dare to break up under penalty that you and your partners would end up attacking you. They have been believed to have some kind of moral authority because they are received in the offices and opened to them La Moncloa. Well, look, I'm telling you, that time has passed, it's over. You've played for too many years with fear, but now you're out of the game. I have already told you that we do not accept their moral superiority or their purportedly democratic credentials, neither before nor now nor ever, because they lack them. This is clear to many nations in our environment, the shielding of territorial unity and national sovereignty is the norm and not the exception. For example, France does not tolerate political formations that undermine its national sovereignty. Article 4 of its Constitution stipulates that political parties and groupings must respect the principles of national sovereignty. In Italy, article 5 of its Constitution prohibits any form of secessionism or territorial assignment. In Germany, separatist parties are directly illegal. Article 21 of the Basic Law of the Federal Republic of Germany states that parties which, according to their purposes or the behaviour of their adherents, tend to disrupt or endanger the existence of the Federal Republic of Germany are unconstitutional. Portuguese electoral law directly prohibits the creation of parties at the regional or local level: Political parties may not be formed which, by virtue of their designation or programme objectives, have a regional nature or scope. And we have already mentioned the European case law of the European Court of Human Rights. In Spain, unfortunately, it took us some time to assume what was already normal in Europe. For too many years ETA counted with some complicity on the part of public opinion and managed to be part of the institutional reality. In those dark times, the victims of terrorism were buried in silence, almost underground, without the presence or recognition of their compatriots and their representatives; it was the time of the peace of the cemeteries. The Party Act of 2002 helped to reverse this unbearable situation, ended the vicious double-playing of votes and bombs, was a very important step towards the defeat of the terrorist band ETA; it was passed in this House with a very broad consensus that made it possible for Spain to cease to be the only country that paid terrorists. Weeks later, the Congress of Deputies itself called for the illegalization of political organizations of terrorism, was one of the stellar moments of this Parliament. The Supreme Court declared the illegalization of Batasuna, Euskal Herritarrok and Herri Batasuna and its application ended with the representation of all of them in the institutions. The framework was clear: in a democracy it is not acceptable for those who have the sole purpose of ending it; it is not appropriate for those who, among their means or ends, seek to undermine the pillars of our coexistence; there is no electoral offer of totalitarianism or to put to the vote the integrity of democracy, the impairment of individual rights or pluralism. This framework - it has to be said - remains fully in force; the ruling of the Constitutional Court adopted in 2011 with a very limited majority - a progressive majority, of course - affects only the evidentiary entity of the evidence handled by the Supreme Court for the illegalization of Sortu, but does not alter nor a coma the content of a law fully in force, and moreover these indications and evidence have continued to accumulate since then. In 2012, UPyD brought to this House an initiative to urge the government of Mariano Rajoy to illegalize Bildu; it brought twenty-five indicative evidence that demonstrated the links with ETA and how they justified killing those who did not share their ideas. We all remember what happened that sad day in this House: it was not approved. And a few days ago, the Association of Victims of Terrorism - from here we send a fraternal embrace for all the victims - the AVT, sent a few weeks ago to the State Attorney General, at the time former Minister of Justice of the Socialist Party, up to 250 proofs that deepened this evidence; that was two weeks ago. What has never been, not before with Rajoy or now with Pedro Sánchez, has been the slightest will to outlaw what remains of ETA's political arm, with the same objectives and without a condemnation of its bloody means, and with an aggravating: that Pedro Sánchez will not outlaw those who need to rule, so mercantile and so sad. I'm done. It is not about illegalizing ideas, as, by the way, you want to do with the successive twists of nut to the Orwellian Historical Memory Law or, as you now call it, democratic memory law; we do not want, as Vice President Calvo said today, to build a common memory of all Spaniards, what a savage, what an attack on freedom! No, no, We are not going to create a police of thought or ideas, what we are going to do is to preserve the space of freedom that is the Constitution and to defend it from those who have among their means and purposes to destroy the unity and sovereignty of Spain; that is, to defend democracy. That is why today, those who by validly assuming the office of deputies swear to defend and to keep the Constitution, we have the opportunity to assert our oath in defense of the demos, of the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards. We cannot encourage what destroys our common project, which is Spain; we cannot not only for legal reasons, but above all for moral reasons, because Spain does not belong to us because it is the legacy of our parents' parents that we have to leave our children's children. Because even though some have given up, there are more and more young and older people who understand that their transcendence lies in their duty to guard it for generations to come, and because guarding it means preserving their unity, protecting coexistence, pluralism and legality from the threats they face every day. Ladies and gentlemen, at this crucial hour, none of you can evade your patriotic responsibility; parties that systematically work to end our rights are out of the law...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u32	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u33	The parties that systematically work to end our rights are out of the law, and not doing everything possible to illegalize them would be betraying what we have contributed together to build, would be betraying our oath. To accede to this Parliament we swear to defend Spain and that is what we are going to do today; join us and let us all do it together, for our grandparents and for our grandchildren, without fear of anything or anyone. Because it's better to have scars for trying to keep the skin intact by cowards. Long live Spain! [[Several Members: Alive!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u34	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u35	Thank you, President. The Party Act in 2002 generated the reaction of many human rights organizations and, in particular, of the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the protection of human rights and the fight against international terrorism at that time. Alerts had to do with the danger of violating the right to political participation. After that today you bring us here a proposal to illegalize the independence parties. In Catalonia, they are the democratic majority that governs; I say this so that everyone can size up the proposal that VOX brings us today. But for us the important issue today is not the literality of the speech made by the honourable Member or the proposal for a law that we are asked to make, but what it means, what VOX is, what role it has in this Parliament and, in the current situation, in the Spanish State. These people are not an exception neither a meteorological phenomenon nor a thing of fatality, as explained by some and some commentators often. These gentlemen are the expression of the apparatus of the Spanish State in the face of the crisis of legitimacy that exists right now. [[Rumors]] These gentlemen are a problem from a democratic perspective. And I agree with Mr Espinosa de los Monteros that it is not a question of freedom of expression, they are a problem because of the material consequences of the political positions that they defend. They are a problem because they defend political postulates that go against women's rights because they deny sexist violence and the rights of migrants because they systematically link migration... [[rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u36	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u37	You've had your time; now it's ours. We would appreciate it if, after talking about pluralism and democracy for ten minutes, they kept a little silence. Thank you. [[Applauds]] He said that the problem lies in the political postulates they defend. They are against women's rights; they deny macho violence. They run counter to the rights of migrants; they are systematically linking migration with crime. They are totally in favour of the rich, you just have to see their electoral program, and also now - for a long time, but now in law-making format - they are against independence. The problem is that these postulates coincide, for example, with the entire inventory of hate crimes in the Spanish State, which has been 102 since the 1990s, for reasons of racism, transphobia, aporophobia, homophobia; that coincide and ideologically defend feminicides - the figures are frightening - and that coincide with systematic aggressions against sovereignist or independence organizations. We can talk about Cultural Ómnium last week, the fire of the Casal Popular de Castelló or the Ateneu Independentista d'Hostafrancs. Moreover, these people are a problem because the progressive forces of this Spanish state and of this Parliament do not stand up to them in the cultural battle they have been waging for a long time. These people present themselves as a popular accusation in the Supreme Court trial, and the State Advocate eventually acquires his speech. In this Congress we cannot talk about monarchy - we have been withdrawn from a motion - and we cannot talk about institutional racism, but we are talking here about how to illegalize the independence parties. And what are you doing? You guys think this is gonna stop? [[Applauds]] Moreover, they are a problem in a State where there has been no democratic cleansing since the dictatorship. In 1977, the Directorate-General for Security acknowledged in a document that the extreme right was somehow controlled by the Directorate-General for Security. It was the same time as the murders of Atocha, the murder of Arturo Ruiz or the attack on El Papus magazine. Last week, with the trial of Martín Villa, we had to endure the letter of four former presidents praising his contribution to the transition when this gentleman was a representative of the greatest tortures that took place here in the dictatorship. [[Applauds]] The links between the far right and the State Security Forces and Corpses are not a quimera that we invent from the independent left. In fact, Xavier Vinader, one of the journalists who dedicated his life to this, explained how in the 70s and 80s in the Valencià Country and in Euskal Herria the far right acted under the operation of the State Security Forces and Bodies. The LAGs - no one has yet passed a court -, the Spanish Basque Battalion or Triple A. For Vinader ended up convicted by the courts and in exile when in this state no one ends up convicted for being linked to the extreme right and for the state terrorism that this implies. We're still waiting for Guillem Agullo's killer to pass before a judge. [[Applauds]] And it is that Vinader raised one thing that is key: the apparatus of the Spanish State has never seen the extreme right as a problem; on the contrary, it has seen it as a collaboration in defense of the status quo. [[Rumors]] Yes, I look at you - addressing the banks of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - because there is nothing left to do with those. It is the political responsibility of the progressive forces of this state for these people not to move forward. What cannot be done is for these people to camp freely, for these people to come up here and ask for independence parties to be illegalized and for there to be no talk about the king or many things that affect this state. [[Applauds]] That is why I draw your attention, because when these people talk about limiting women's rights, you, with all political criteria, answer with more feminism; why, when you talk about illegalizing the independence parties, do you not answer with the right to self-determination? To the extreme right is fought with political project; we have one, that of the Catalan feminist, anti-racist and socialist countries. [[Rumors]] Every time we say it, you look at us with pride, even with a certain condescension. What we find utopian is that you intend to plant these people with a political alternative with a constitution signed under sands noise and with a constitution systematically attested to by financial powers. What political alternative do you offer to the Catalan conflict? More jail? More exile? You think that's how they're gonna stop these people? The only answer can be self-determination and amnesty because the only way to stop the extreme right is to put a political project on the table and not continue with a dialectic battle because you are given votes. That happened in Andalusia and look how the elections ended. I ended, first of all, by thanking the organized antifascism of the Catalan Countries, the Spanish State and the world: thanks for defending democracy with your lives. And, in particular, thanks to Guillem Aguló's family, who taught us how to fight many and who at last these days will see on screen the political justice that the courts of this country never gave them. Visca los Paísos Catalans liures, visca Galiza ceiba y gora Euskal Herria errepublika. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u39	Arritsalde on; good afternoon. Eskerrik asko, president. 321,100, you know what they are? The votes of Euskal Herria Bildu in the last elections to the Basque Parliament and the Navarro Parliament. Do you know how many you got? 22 060 exactly; 300,000 against 22 000. Euskal Herria Bildu has 28 women parliamentarians; you, 1. Euskal Herria Bildu has 1262 buildings, governs 121 municipalities and we have 39 juntas and juntas, 5 deputies, 2 senators and 28 parliamentarians. I will remind you of your data, which are easy to remember, of course: zero councillors, zero juntas, zero mayors, zero deputies and senators and one Member of Parliament. [[Applauds]] Anyone would say, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, that it is Basque citizenship that has de facto illegalized you in the ballot box and in a democratic way. And that's his big problem, democracy. That's why they're trying to win through illegalization what they know they'll never get in the polls. I have to admit that at least it has been clear - that is the virtue they have - at least in the text they have presented here, because they are an uncomplex version of the structural franchising that still persists in that State. And with that clarity, they say what we already knew: that the objective of the Party Law, the illegalizations, was to end independence. Listening to you may sound like another of the crazy things that you bring to this House from time to time to generate rift, hatred and confrontation, but I regret to say that this proposal is nothing new, and I am sure that today most of this House will reject this proposal because it seems to you to be a nonsense. But the illegalizations of independence parties have been a reality until recently, until nine years ago in Euskal Herria. Then they were not insanity of VOX, they were illegalizations encouraged by the People's Party and the Socialist Party in the name of democracy. For years thousands and thousands of Basques and Basques we were illegalized, we were denied the right to vote and the right to be elected. We were told our project was illegal. Accounts were seized, sieges were closed by force, millionaire bonds were imposed, people were arrested for pushing those parties, and they were imprisoned for years for wanting to do politics in a public way. And, most seriously, hundreds of thousands of people were criminalized for their ideas. The laws were twisted and others were invented in order to bring Basque independence out of the political equation. They built the 'everything is ETA' and used it not only to illegalize parties, but also to illegalize organizations of all kinds, including newspapers and radios. All in such a way as to put an end to independence. Today we can say that there is no possible political equation without Basque independence, neither in Madrid nor in Euskal Herria. So you see, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, they are late because at Euskal Herria we have won the battle of illegalizations, and the proof is that independence is stronger than ever and we are more and more. Since 2002, the year of this Party Act, thirteen political formations have been illegalized, and from among those thirteen I stop in one, the illegalization of Basque Nationalist Action, because I believe that nothing can be more symbolic. The ANV was formed in 1930, before the Civil War; it was illegalized in Francoism and again illegalized in 2008. So until 2011, when we arrived in Bildu, which was also about to be illegalized; at the last minute he was able to attend the 2011 municipal elections. And so I became the mayor of my people, Usurbil, because it was demanded that the lists were made up of people who had never been on the banned lists before; forty thousand people were imposed on whom the radical denial of their right to passive suffrage was imposed. So you see, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I'm a product of the Party Law - you can say it that way - and that's why I'm here now, in this rostrum. I warn you that the commitment that has led thousands of people to walk towards the construction of a just, democratic and peaceful Basque republic remains intact. We will deal with you and your illegalizing desires; you could not then and you cannot now, neither can you now. And they won't be able to because we're still here. Moreover, paradoxes of life, today is the day when, after three decades of trying to end the Basque independenceist left, it turns out that we are here conditioning the Government of Spain and the laws that this Congress approves, while you paint absolutely nothing. This is poetic justice. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, have you read your proposal? Did you get a good look at it? I will read to you what you propose that should happen to illegalize a party. It will be considered as a reason for the illegalization - and I read textually - of systematically violating fundamental freedoms and rights by promoting, justifying or exculpating attacks on the life or integrity of persons or the exclusion and persecution of persons on the basis of their ideology, religion or belief, nationality, race, sex or sexual orientation. You have described yourselves, word by word. [[Applauds]] Do you intend to self-illegalize? Because yes, you systematically violate the fundamental freedoms and rights of social groups, whether immigrants, feminists or LGBTI people. They promote and justify attacks on the integrity of persons, as they do when they point out unaccompanied minors'centres and then they are attacked. [[Applauds]] And, of course, you exclude and persecute people because of ideology, religion, nationality, race, sex and sexual orientation. They basically exclude and point out any approach that differs from yours and, as I have told you, they have perfectly described what VOX is and the reasons for its illegalization. But let them know, we will not ask for their illegalization because we believe in democracy in the face of fascism, what we will do is to confront them in institutions, in the street and in all the spaces in which you are present and we are sure that it will be Basque society itself that will banish them forever from our country. In the face of his soflamas, I adapt a famous phrase and bring it to the present day, to this present day: You will not convince, but neither will you overcome. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, look around you, Basque, Catalan and Galician independence is stronger than ever, not only stronger, but also more united than ever. Yes, sooner than later, Euskal Herria, Galicia and Catalonia will be just, free and democratic republics.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u40	Mrs. Aizpurua, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u41	I'm done. And you will be nothing but a bad memory of the past. Visca Catalunya free! Long live Galicia celiba! Gore euskal errepublika! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u43	Mr Ortega, Mr Abascal and even Mr Garriga have already said: we are going to make them illegal. In the absence of persuasive or sophisticated ideas it is not bad as background noise now, to preheat that motion of censure that already take place; by the way, if they concretely one day, as they go, in view of how the invitation declines those to whom they are offered to lead it. Unlawful to those who have independent ideas. Just look at Articles 4, 5 and 8 of the proposed amendments: illegalizing ideas. The substance of this proposal is clear. If I don't like reality, I forbid it and worship it. Hey, this is the dream of every electoral strategist. They're cracks! Don't fail, go deeper over there. If I don't let others in, I'm sure I'll win. But in reality you are nothing original, Mr Espinosa, you are not, this is not a historic day. What they are proposing today was tried by others here and, oh by chance, they were the same ones who were intimately linked to the military coups. In 1918, members of the Basque Nationalist Party were represented for the first time in this Congress. The Basque nationalists, and also the Catalans, were severely attacked by traditionalists and monarchists because, according to them, no one could sit in Parliament unless he declared that his homeland was Spain: For it is not enough to declare that he is a Spanish citizen, he can only occupy a seat who loves Spain as a homeland and has no more homeland than Spain. Shortly afterwards, the dictatorial regime of Primo de Rivera ended up illegalizing us. We suffered the same harassment during the Republican legislatures and with the Franco dictatorship. Of our one hundred and twenty-five years of history we have been illegalized almost fifty. Mr Espinosa says that nationalism is incompatible with democracy, yes, of course, every nationalism but yours. [[Applauds]] From the pseudo-legal argument made in your bill, it follows that you must not have known that Spanish democracy, as defined by the Constitution, is not a militant democracy. Either they did not want to read Judgment 48/2003, on the Political Parties Act, or if they have read it, they think that the judges of the court were a zote or a panda of separatist reds headed by its president, and at the time rapporteur of that ruling, Manuel Jiménez de Parga, a well-known leftist extremist and former congressman of the Constituent Legislature by UCD. Well, on the legal basis of that judgment it is said repeatedly that - I open quotes - 'in our constitutional order there is no room for a model of'militant democracy'..., that is, a model in which respect is imposed no longer, but positive adherence to the order and, first of all, to the Constitution'. And it continues, as does the current Political Parties Act: 'any project or objective is understood to be compatible with the Constitution, provided that it is not defended by an activity that violates democratic principles or the fundamental rights of citizens'. It is not a question of banning the defence of ideas or doctrines, no matter how far they go or even question the constitutional framework, and it turns out that what you are proposing to us is to illegalize those who aspire to secession, even by democratic methods. You threaten to illegalize an independentist party simply by verbalizing your idea. He even cited the Plan Ibarretxe, scrupulously processed according to the law. How can they present an initiative similar to this as an act of defence of the Constitution, as defence of the democratic regime? You've got to have a face! The danger to democracy is you. You want to send them where you would've done Labordeta! What the fuck are you going to defend the constitutional system! [[Applauds]] Last week they rated this government as the worst in eighty years, eighty years, which is not exactly a round number and is not randomly chosen. And when Abascal has been questioned by the press if Franco's regime was better, he cowardly gave the silence for an answer. I mean, according to you, we lived better with Franco. What the fuck are you gonna value the regime you're in! They accuse others of what you are guilty of in the first degree because the independenceists will want to leave, but they will leave Spain with their institutions free. All you care about is the unity of the Spanish state. Democracy gives them the same; it is more, better that there is not, that with Franco lived better than now, according to Abascal. You are the ones who claim to be burdened with the model of state that they claim to defend, not the others, who will or will not want to leave Spain, but not to attack freedoms! Put that in your head. In democracy, nuclear rights and freedoms are the balance of power; the form of a State or its borders are an accessory. You do not want to avoid political violence or the use of terrorist activities, no, that is already provided for in the legislation, you want to eliminate freedom of thought, freedom of expression, the right to participate and passive suffrage, and I will not be the one to defend it, but if, as you advocate in defence of the Constitution, someone should be illegalized, regardless of violent conduct, it is you who should probably be illegalized, because, as stated in article 10.2 of the Organic Law of Political Parties, you seek to violate the democratic principles contained in the Constitution, to damage or destroy the regime of freedoms or to make the democratic system impossible or to eliminate. If there is anyone in this Parliament who is the antithesis of the political word is VOX, of the best sense of politics defined as the activity by which a free society composed of free human beings identifies and solves the problems posed by their collective coexistence through the agreement. You never seek agreement, you just sow weeds, you don't do politics, you use it. VOX accounts for 2% of Basque voters and intend to cancel the voice of 67% of Basque citizenship, 75% if we include Podemos, defender of the right to decide. By making the translation to this House, they intend to illegalise those who represent 25% of the Spanish state's voters and Mr Espinosa has the nerve to talk to us about pluralism. Who are you to deny bread and salt to others? Who are they to tell you how you have to think, what to dream about or what to aspire to? Why are their ideals better than those of others? Why are they the only ones acceptable? Is Spain to you a quasi-religious idea and think like Calvo Sotelo, that the sacrosanct name of God can only protect the universal and the infinite and that is Spain? Yeah, of course they think so. Above freedom of thought, above the conjunctural of the forms of state, above respect for the popular will, you continue to believe in Spain of unity of destiny in the universal, and you are willing to everything for it. Neither Mr. Bassito de Ferrol during that ideal government you yearn for could silence the voice of the Basque nationalists despite their prohibitions and forty years of dictatorship. You're not gonna do it now. I'm done. On December 5, 1935, this same Chamber witnessed a proposal and a debate similar to this one in which we find ourselves, generated by an initiative of José Calvo Sotelo. To him he gave a great reply, a great figure of Basque politics and nationalism, the Navarro Manuel de Irujo. With the permission that I would surely have given Don Manuel and by correcting that reply, I will explain to those who do not know that the Gothic kings, one after another, pointed out in their chronicles to have defeated and defeated the Basques, those rebel vascons who were very defeated could not have been if the successor's regular had to continue fighting them. You are the heirs of the obsessive spirit of these godly kings: of Euric, Leovigildo, Recaredo, Gundermaro, Sisebuto, Suintila, Wamba or Rodrigo. They represent with their obsessions the will to silence by force the feeling of independence, freedom and nationality that manifests generation after generation a large part of the Basque people. You're the last goth. That is why, for a Democrat, for a Basque, for a vizcay like me, the greatest satisfaction, the greatest pride, the greatest certainty of being on the right path is to be fought by the last goths. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u44	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u45	Thank you, President. Brings VOX a proposal to illegalize the independence parties. I'll make a preliminary consideration. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros said that one of the stellar moments of recent democracy was the illegalization of Batasuna and its surroundings. I'm going to give you a fact that I don't know if you know. Do you know who was on the state attorney's team that promoted and got that illegalization? My partner Edmundo Bal, who has his seat two rows back. We share that it is paradoxical and shocking for any Democrat who has partyed in the Congress of Deputies fighting for the breakdown of the sovereignty that we represent here, but the question is: Is it the solution to ban an idea per se? Let us see how we have reached this point and whether this reveals to us the causes of why we are in this situation and some possible solution. Today, with independence at a high point, if I sum up the votes of the independence parties are in total throughout Spain 2,115,061 votes. The votes of non-independence parties are 20,924,088 if I only take those with parliamentary representation; if I take them all, they are more than 21 million votes to non-independence parties. Why with ten times less votes have these gentlemen permanently had the key to the governance of Spain and have been able to undermine the rights of Spaniards in favour of the rights of nationalist politicians? Well, there are two factors. These two factors are, on the one hand, the damn electoral law, which the People's Party and the Socialist Party refuse to change because it is good for them as a party, but which, for example, prevented Citizens, with Inés Arrimadas at their head, winning the elections in Catalonia, from forming Government. That's one of the factors. On the other hand, there is the inability to reach agreements between the two parties that have had more than enough majorities, absolute majorities, to take Spain away from the hands of the nationalists and the independenceists. They are, therefore, these two factors, which have the same cause, and that is that in the People's Party and in the Socialist Party their party interests have prevailed over those of Spain. With this data, I would say that it would be enough for the national parties at national level that we have a vocation to represent all the Spaniards to agree to reduce the strength of these gentlemen who want the opposite. See if it's simple, you don't have to ban an idea. We, as far as we can, do it. We did it with Navarra Suma, we did it in the Basque Country with more Citizens PP and we are proposing it now in Catalonia. But you, gentlemen of VOX, what are you doing? Do your party interests take precedence over Spain's interest in this analysis that I am making of all political parties? For example, what is the fundamental purpose of your motion of censure? Who are they directing it to? Mr. Sanchez or Mr. Married? I know you can add, I know you know the viability of that motion of censure and I know the efforts you have made to bring together support this summer around a candidate. These efforts are none, since the first day they announced this motion they have been putting the citizens and the people's party on the nets to a boil, and some hyperventilated charge has put us on the line as well. They have no desire for us to vote on this motion. The evidence shows that you are moved by party interest. They want to strengthen themselves at the cost of harming the People's Party, knowing that they are strengthening the Government and indirectly all of these gentlemen who are trying to illegalise today. If it is a matter of amending this amending Government, we are trying to prevent its formation from the very first day. We proposed an alternative way for all these independent nationalists not to paint anything in the government, which we came to call the 221 track. We do not refuse to have your proposal processed, because we believe, like you, that secessionism is harmful to the interests of the Spaniards and cannot continue to camp in its broadest. But we do not refuse because we have our own proposals, which are well known and democratic: a limit - Europe sees it well - of 3% of the national vote so that a party can be here, in Congress, a democratic court that exists in Germany or Italy; we also propose that organizations that incite violence, such as the UPCs, through Arran, cannot receive public money. I'm sure the Spaniards don't want to pay eccentric little girls playing The Lord of the Flies burning all the streets. We don't think banning ideas weakens them. But, in addition, some of the things they raise are of dubious legality. But there's another way, the one I told you. If we reach agreements that we do not want Spain to break, it will be the beginning of the end of the chollo that nationalist politicians have with the broken phones that have prevailed in this House for so many years and the end of social engineering. When they lose power, they will stop investing a huge amount of public money in social engineering by washing heads, generating a totally wrong idea of Spain and promoting independence. It cannot be those who want to break Spain who are more constant and more cohesive. They have a plan for the future. In this they have been better than the parties that have traditionally ruled Spain. Today, the Socialist Party once again shows its affiliates to nationalism and winks to approve budgets to nationalist parties, but they will have to explain very well why they choose nationalist parties with other alternatives. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, it is you who call a deafening blowing party, because your international relations say the opposite of what you bring here today. You run to take pictures with Salvini, the leader of the Italian League, who then appears with stellates around. It's not very consistent. In addition, before the North League was a nationalist party. Photos are also taken with Dutch Geert Wilders, who also congratulated you on the election results while tweeting against the Spanish police and the Spanish state on October 1. On the other hand, Wilders is the main promoter of the black legend in Europe. Please review your international relations, find out, because you can end up selfies with Francis Drake. Nationalism is defeated in the polls, not on Twitter, gentlemen of VOX. Nationalism is defeated by intellectual combat, not by algaradas sometimes macaras. Stop the show and come to work. By the way, he has said the spokesman for the UPCs who wants to encourage the Catalan feminist, anti-racist and socialist countries; the Catalan countries which are to Geography what the Middle Earth, feminists where women are called whores who are not nationalists, anti-racists with Torra and the wild beasts and the party of Herbert Barrera, and socialists with the party of Pujol. They don't know where they are or where they're going. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u46	Thank you, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Last week Mr Abascal from this rostrum assumed that they are a Francoist party by ensuring that this is the worst government in eighty years. And that a party that represents fascist ultra-Spanishism seeks to illegalize democratic political forces, forces that we fight for freedom during the dictatorship and that we pay a high price for it, perfectly portrays the Spain that you represent. High price, yes, with thousands of retaliated, exiled and dead. On 17 August 1936, nationalist leader Alexandre Bóveda was shot. On August 12, 1975, three months before the dictator's death, another fighter for the freedom and sovereignty of Galicia, our colleague Moncho Reboiras, was shot in the back with three shots; in the middle, forty years of terror that you long for. They want to illegalize us because we continue to defend the freedom of our people, of our peoples. You speak in your proposed law of national sovereignty as a fetish. Well, we defend national sovereignty, although it is clear that we speak of different nations. The BNG defends the sovereignty of our nation, Galicia. We defend the right to self-determination that is not part of its Constitution, but that is recognized by the UN as an essential democratic right for all the peoples of the world. And in the face of his anachronistic and corrupt monarchy, imposed by Franco and so undemocratic that it could never be voted for by the citizenry, we want to be able to live in prosperity and equality in our republic, in the republic of Galicia. And we have every right, no matter what, to do it. You intend to politically eliminate all those who do not think like you. Well, they will not be able to double the sovereignty and independence of Galicia, Euskal Herria, and the Catalan Countries. Know that the BNG will never shut up. I'm done. You are not going to shut up, because we also have popular support in Galicia that you do not have. Let me remind you of the outcome of the elections two months ago: BNG, 19; Vox, zero; and also zero mayors, zero councillors. It is clear that the Galician people do not represent it and also that they want to win with anti-democratic laws and authoritarian courts what the people deny them. They won't make it. Long live Galicia!, Gora euskal erepublica!, Long live the Catalan Free Countries! Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u48	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. The other day I called them fascists and they didn't even change. They were more offended because I said: loathsome, a word recognized by the dictionary of the Royal Academy of Language. I was wondering why. And the father of this proposal of law confirms it to me: you are the right Fascist. One question, why are you walking around in the branches? Why don't you present the bill the body asks for? All illegal, except VOX. Although, well looked at, if we pass your bill, it turns out that maybe the illegalized are you, because we're going to see: Who raised funds from an Iranian terrorist group? [[A Member: We can]] VOX. Who got a salary from an Iranian terrorist group? [[A Member: We can]] Mr Abascal and Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Who, as stated in article 9, justifies or excuses the attacks on life committed by dictator Franco? VOX. [[Applauds]] Maybe we need to make you illegal. If this was approved, the thinking of millions of people would be illegalized. Article 25 of the Constitution. Just what the Nazis did. Yes, you have said it, Mr Espinosa, there are dangerous nationalisms: yours, which smells like dictatorship, naphthaline and fascism. PP, Citizens, these are your partners. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u50	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I have made accounts and with this proposal of law you want to leave out of the law the third political force of Galicia and 300 000 Galician voters; more than 2 million Catalans and the absolute majority in the Parliament of Catalonia; more than half a million Basques and almost half a million Valencians and Valencians. Eliminate four autonomous governments from a pen, almost nothing. I am Madrid and I am Spanish, but I want to start the intervention by telling him that if he has a hole, if he has not yet closed the list, he will point me at this list too. There will be those who think that you do this as franchisors; I actually believe that you do it as cheaters, because in reality only by taking 3 and a half million people out of the democratic game can you aspire to rule Spain. The problem is that, as our country is great for you, you have to cut it down and mutilate it until it is as narrow as you yourselves and then - there it is - you can camp in its width. That's what Bertolt Brecht ironically said about dissolving the people and naming a new one. It is impossible for you to love Spain if you hate more than half of your people. In the background, for you it is to go back to the walks; it is to reduce the demo until what you want comes out. It used to be called a census vote and now they are actually presenting an initiative that I would tell them runs the risk of staying half-hearted. Don't be short, go one step further, it's not going to happen that you don't get the result. Reform the electoral law; make a unique constituency that is exclusively the neighborhood of Salamanca and see if they can rule Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u52	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol also spoke for the Plural Parliamentary Group, and lastly, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u53	I have read the proposal with great interest, with great pleasure and the truth is that I have had a good time, laughing is healthy. And while I was reading the speech and I was thinking about what I'm going to answer to them, it has come to my head from the famous speech in this Chamber of Congressman Labordeta to one of the most famous passages of the great Pepe Rubians. I think you guys are short. They intend with their proposal to illegalize the political parties that question the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation. Discomplicate yourselves and promote the illegalization of political parties that question anything, promote the illegalization of political parties, address the root problem. Because, if you allow so much pluralism, the same goes for a political party that defends democracy or that does not share the defence of the ideas of dictatorship, or a political party that is not for dirty war. Let's avoid all that. Let's update the Cartesian maximum; let's overcome that already anachronistic I think then exist and replace it with a hindrance then. Therefore, nothing better than forbidding to question, forbidding to disagree, forbidding to think, forbidding to read. You forbid freedom of expression, because, if not, you risk a deputy coming out here with a yellow tie model llibertat political prisoners and exiles and finish his intervention by saying Viva Galiza ceibe!, Gora Euskal Herria askatuta! and especially high, strong, clear and with conviction Visca Catalunya will rain! Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you very much, Eskerrik asko and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u54	Thank you, Mr. Alonso-Cuevillas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u55	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Well, we're spending the afternoon with this. [[Laughter]] I'm starting with an appointment for the citizen representative, Mr. Díaz. You have made a rather strange comparison saying that, of course, is that you or your political position or ideology have twenty million voters and we only two. Man, of course, is that to us, for example, in Murcia we are wrong because we do not introduce ourselves; neither in Andalusia nor in Extremadura; that is, stop cheating because it does not hold. [[laughs]] Tierno Galvan said that the problem in this country is that the sons of the fascists were more fascist than their parents, and we're on it. Today the regime - until recently we said regime of 78; today it is the regime of 36 - comes here to present a kind of initiative that comes to say that everything that I do not like, everything that is not like me is not worth. And, in fact, it qualifies it as a historic day; quite a looser, because this that you have perpetrated here is a chauffeur, it is a chafrada, it is a catechada. In fact, it directly takes the previous law - quite a reaction already of itself -, voted by the Spanish right and the Catalan right - that it does not forget - and they change the last part of the sentence to the illegalized parties - violence and terrorism - and put against the indissoluble unity of the homeland or of Spain. You, in short, are trying to outlaw more than two million people, at least in Catalonia. We believe that, moreover, they are placed in the fifth of 'brotherhood', coming to say that in Italy, Portugal, France or Germany parties like ours are illegalized. It's Twitter troll, it's fake, it's fake, it's fake, it's sister-in-law fifth. But here today Republican Left wants to address, first of all, the Spanish left and, secondly, those who at a given moment can sound good to you what you say. As for the Spanish left, what is presented here today with a kind of proposal of random law, from now on to three, four, five, six or seven years, if we all follow like this - the whole left - can be a real decree. If we don't plant these people on a political, ideological, parliamentary and media level, what today is this cobblestone, tomorrow can be a real decree. If we shut up, these people will rule. There is a story - with this I want to finish - of Salvador de Madariaga, who was a Basque politician I want to tell you. He in a book entitled Spain of 1931 explained the anecdote of a newspaperman and a chieftain. He explained the story of a chief who in those Republican elections dedicated himself to buying votes throughout his region until he arrived at a chamizo, a cabin, the pauperrima house of a newspaperman. He knocked on the door and offered to that newspaperman and his family, who were practically starving, two hard men, who were a real fortune that year. When the newspaperman saw that he said no, he didn't accept it. When the chief - with that half smile that can only put those who have commanded all their lives - said to him that of: "What are you doing?", are you crazy? The newspaperman replied with a phrase that has passed to the story: 'I do not accept it because in my hunger I command'. This is class consciousness. The question we have to ask ourselves is how it is possible that generations with much less formation and much less information that we could identify correctly and properly their enemy, the cause of their situation, and now we are not capable. How is that possible? It was only a humble response to those who vote or can sound good to them what VOX says and who charge - 500, 600, 700 or 800 euros. The indignation - and we can all be very outraged - is finite, it ends, but the class consciousness is eternal; the consciousness of who you are and who your adversary is and who is responsible for your poverty is eternal. Don't let him get lost. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u57	Thank you, President. The proposal presented today by the VOX Parliamentary Group contains a proposal, as we have already seen, for the reform of the Political Parties Act, a reform that is made - as is usually done almost everything - in retrograde and fascist terms. [[Protests]] Now I'm going to develop this issue. I'll start with the obvious and end up talking about the most important thing. Today in principle we talk about political parties and it is true that political parties, as has been said, are essential in the construction of any democratic system, so sometimes we talk about party democracy. Alexis de Tocqueville a few years ago said that political parties were an inherent evil in free governments; that with them and their desire to conquer and preserve power, freedom perilous, but without their competitive competition the truth is that freedom does not exist. Some of this survives in our day. The centrality of political parties has not prevented citizens from observing with great concern how politics has been exercised in recent years and how power has been exercised in institutions. This had its cenit in the 15-M, where the cry that we all remember was loudly heard: 'They do not represent us. We are not merchandise in the hands of politicians and bankers.' So there is a lot to go on in the regulation of political parties - financing, transparency, internal democracy - but let us not be fooled, this is not the debate today. The VOX proposal is far from improving or strengthening our democratic system. Rather, it is quite the opposite, what VOX seeks - as always - to sharpen democracy, and it does so by trampling on basic democratic principles: ideological freedom and political pluralism. It seems that what attracts VOX the most is always to think of that single-color Spain of a single party and with a single idea, which can be summed up today - for those of us who have read the proposal - in a phrase: the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation. And it is true, that is reflected in the Constitution, but you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, repeat it as a mantra, as a dogma, as if that contained in the Constitution were engraved in stone and unremovable for centuries, and was a sacrilege, a great sacrilege, not sharing it or wanting to change it. I believe that you already know that the Constitutional Court has established that Spain is not a militant democracy; that is, that any ideology and any political project is defendable in our State, even those who go against the Constitution and I will set an example for you. Today I can go up to this rostrum and defend that Spain should be constituted as a confederal republic, a republic that chooses its head of State in a democratic way, voting, and that establishes a new framework, a new ordination of the State that reflects the plurinationality of the Spanish State, the desires of its nations and that does so from the sovereigntys - I use the plural - shared. And you, Mr Espinosa, are telling me that this is against democratic principles. But where did you read it? It's a great barbarity! [[Applauds]] Less dogmas, less dogmas, less unique thoughts and a little more culture, and if it can be democratic, better. And now I'm going to the important thing. What really underlies today in the debate we are all having is how we position ourselves, ultimately, on how, in what direction and with whom we are going to build the future of this country. And this challenges us all, but above all it challenges those political forces that have made possible the first left-wing coalition government in a long time, because finally on the table - today we are seeing it - there are basically two projects to reform this state. The first is the one that represents the three rights led by VOX that marks the pace and that is implicit in the proposal that we are discussing and that defends an expired Spain, a Spain in black and white identity that pursues a project of involution and the loss of individual and collective rights. A project that sinks its roots in the old Spanish nineteenth-century liberal state, in a monarchist, centralist and capitalist state, in a state built by and for the elites, built from above down and from the center towards the periphery. But also, ladies and gentlemen - and I want to stress this - there is here a project of radical democracy, a Spain with a republican horizon. A solidarity, plurinational, feminist republic, heir of the First Republic, of a popular republicanism that proposes an alternative project and that pursues a comprehensive and profound reorganization of the political, cultural and economic sphere of this country; that can help - I sincerely believe - to close old wounds and heal those wounds that have now been placed on the table and that can, at last, help to resolve the territorial, social and institutional crisis that we suffer. And to this we should devote a little time in the coming months; to think about it and to do it, on the one hand, with a certain sense of state - with high eyesight, as is usually said - but also, on the other hand, leaving behind old dogmas that in this case have served as a parapet to the nationalist independence political forces. And I mean that idea that Spain is irreformable. No, ladies and gentlemen, that's not true. Spain is on the move. Spain is on the move. The question is where we're going to walk. Towards a possible covenant of Columbus, or towards a new and renewed covenant of St. Sebastian? A horizon of involution or a republican horizon? Ladies and gentlemen, this is the question. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Garrido. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that this debate has become a crossroads of insults and disqualifications, because this is a transcendental debate and should be done with a little level and seriousness. We are talking about the foundations of our democracy, political pluralism, freedom of ideas and the functions and limits of political parties, which are a key part of our constitutional architecture as instruments of democratic participation and strengthening. Ladies and gentlemen, I had the honour of being rapporteur on the 2002 Party Act. A law that enjoyed a broad consensus, much thought-provoked and guaranteed and that gave the parties the greatest possible space of freedom following the spirit of the constituent, concluding that in Spain any idea that was not in itself criminal but not by any method, only through the democratic method, that is, by peaceful means excluding all forms of violence and by democratic means, respecting the rule of law and the procedures and majorities to change the laws. From the law to the law, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we established in the norm itself a catalogue of prohibited conduct and principles of compulsory compliance, the violation of which could result in the illegalization of a party. And this led to Batasuna's exclusion, but not because of his ideas, but because he had become the prolongation of the threat and terror and because he had become the political arm of a terrorist organization. That's not repression, gentlemen of Bildu. You will be able to be legal and defend the ideas you want, but you still have a long way to go to be democrats until you recognize that the real conflict that has taken place in the past was the existence of a gang of murderers who have left behind a flood of blood and innocent victims that we are never going to forget and that, in addition, they will be a reference of freedom for our democracy. [[applause]] That decision to illegalize Batasuna and the Party Law itself was endorsed by both the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights in judgments that are now part of our jurisprudence; a doctrine that, as all of you know, is a source of law and is binding. What does that doctrine of the Constitutional Court remind us of? That there is no democracy without pluralism, that our democracy is a tolerant democracy, that ideologies are free - it is illegal or violent means that are prohibited in our system - and that our democracy is not a militant democracy. This means that unlike other European constitutions which have a part of their foundations and precepts, ours is not, and therefore, we are allowed to reform any part of our Constitution, including total reform, that is, respecting the procedures and the majorities necessary to do so. That is why we cannot accept the proposal for a law that you, Mr de VOX, are presenting to us because, in addition to doing so unilaterally and without consensus, you intend to illegalize with it all the independence forces because of the mere fact of being so, and that goes against our Constitution and against the doctrine of the Constitutional Court. And it is that when the Constitution is defended we must defend it as a whole, not only the part that is appropriate; in the same way as when the constitutional doctrine is invoked, we must invoke it as a whole, not only the part that interests us, as you did this afternoon, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of VOX, you know very well, perfectly well, that your claim can only be achieved through a reform of the Constitution, not through an amendment of the Party Law. That is why this proposal for a law is not the way, because it would also end up becoming victims and strengthening those who, both you and we, want to weaken and fight politically. And it is that in Spain, ladies and gentlemen, one can be nationalist or independentist, in the same way that one can be autonomous, internationalist or centralist. However, all of these projects -- they can only be defended peacefully by respecting the law and also by respecting the rights of all others. That means that what we want to be Spain we will decide together and all the Spaniards, not just a part. It can be said louder but no clearer. [[Applauds]] Those are the rules and that is the integrative spirit that the constituents bequeathed to us. That is the space that is the fruit of the Transitional Accord, which, in the words of my colleague Adolfo Suárez, is not that we all think the same, but the place where we can live with those we think differently. [[Applauds]] I will be told from a few lines that the problem is that in recent times some parties have become openly secessionist options. They will tell me that some institutions have failed to comply with their constitutional obligations and that illegal acts have been committed. It is true, in the same way that our democracy has demonstrated that it has instruments to defend itself and has reacted by, for example, applying article 155 and the criminal procedure against those who committed criminal acts. There is no doubt that these instruments will have to be further strengthened and developed in defence of our democracy. That is the objective behind the initiative of the People's Group that has announced my spokesman to suspend or limit the funding of parties that keep in their ranks or in management bodies those convicted of crimes against the Constitution, against public order or against the State, which joins other initiatives of my group such as the prohibition of pardons to those convicted of crimes of rebellion or sedition, or the prohibition of running for election to fugitives from justice. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, in a rule of law no one can forcefully impose his ideas on others over the law, nor over the Party Law, which remains in force. Therefore, if any political force, independentist or whatever, wished to assume as a permanent method the violation of democratic principles and the rule of law, the exclusion or persecution of the adversary or the justification of violence, whatever, or the coercion to achieve its political objectives, it would not be necessary to reform neither the Constitution nor the Law of the Parties, it would suffice to apply the current one, because that method is incompatible with our democracy. That would be your responsibility, gentlemen of the Government, because it is up to you by law, the Government and the prosecution. In that connection, I hope that you will take good note of the reports of the Civil Guard on the CDRs we have just heard, to find out who is behind and who is financing these groups, whom the Civil Guard accuses of acts of terrorism. But I'm afraid you Socialists are on to something else. I'm afraid you're in reforming the sedition crime to favor the prisoners and pushing a new negotiating table with Esquerra. By the way, they will already explain to us what Bildu's spokesman said this afternoon that they are conditioning the government. I'm done. I do not know what they intend to negotiate at that table with Esquerra and Bildu, but we warn you that we will not accept any shortcuts. I don't know if you are able to betray your principles in exchange for a plate of lentils to continue in the Moncloa, but we don't. We, from the People's Party, will continue to uphold the principles that we have always defended: the unity of Spain, national sovereignty, law enforcement, equal rights and solidarity among Spaniards. That is the Spain of freedom and harmony in which we believe, that is the constitutional Spain that we will always defend. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Bermudez de Castro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I see that the historic day has lasted for what lasted its arena, which began the democratic debate, its members have abandoned it and left it there alone; it must be that they believe more in a deaf democracy. In constitutional Spain, of course, it is not out of the law for what is thought; it is out of the law who commits crimes, not who thinks anything. Now it turns out the thought is delinquent? That was with your longing Franco, gentlemen of VOX. Ladies and gentlemen, you are a perfect machine of perpetual rage. That's why fanatics like them so much, because they're needed. Fanatics who, like you, do not care if what you say is false; fanatics with authoritarian mentality who believe not in justice but in vengeance, who believe in the eye for an eye, in the law of the jungle. You, gentlemen of VOX, see a very bad world where people are vague and idiotic and minorities are criminals. You wonder what would scare my grandparents and piss my parents off a lot and you already have your lie, a lie wrapped in fear. That's you, a big lie in being so scared, and that's how you get your votes. They need to create a villain, whether a journalist or a feminist, an actor, an immigrant or a left-wing president. They are reactionary that yearn for Franco's dictatorship of eighty years ago, this is VOX. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, today we are presented with a bill full of hatred that we have been accustomed to since you came to this House. I will tell you very clearly: as much as they chill, as much as they gesticulate, their insults have only served to scare the PP. They have failed to convince voters who continue to support the PP, but have triumphed in fearing the current leaders of the PP, who are afraid that fans who now vote for and vote for VOX, will continue to prefer VOX's hatred to the lies of the PP, VOX's anger to the PP's tax cuts, VOX's insults to the blockades of the Constitutional Court and the General Council of the Judiciary of the People's Party. However, we are not going to be scared, we are not slaughtered lambs. Ladies and gentlemen, you have an important problem with political plurality and freedom of expression. Not only do they bring an unconstitutional proposal, but the first victim of this law would be their party. But if they have been able to create a pseudo-union and place an entrepreneur who says that we have to defend the rich by nature, they are also able to present a text that could be used against those who remember, sympathize, elevate or claim a very black past in our history. They are reactionary that yearn for Franco's dictatorship of eighty years ago, but don't worry, the laws in Spain protect coexistence. And that's why this government pulled the dictator out of the mausoleum and that's why this government is going to illegalize the Francisco Franco Foundation. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this government, committed to coexistence, progress, dialogue and understanding, is not afraid of freedom of expression, nor is it afraid of the free exercise of political activity. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not an independentist, it is obvious. The independenceists know that I try to prove to my fellow citizens that the independence project is neither useful nor good, neither feasible nor desirable, and that its leaders have used a personal feeling for their political benefit. The PP government increased that sentiment in eight years and multiplied it by three. The PP was a machine generating independenceists, as you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, are a machine generating hatred. Nor can we penalize that feeling or the political action of its democratically elected representatives, provided that it is done through democratic channels and within the Constitution. That is why I am an advocate of the Constitution, because it protects and protects us all: you, gentlemen of VOX, the independenceists and me. You are enemies of the Constitution. The Constitution was created to unite and you want to use it to divide. The Constitution was created to advance and you want to use it to reverse. The Constitution served to look to the future and you only yearn for the past, where there was no Constitution and commanded the dictator Franco. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Abascal stated in this House that he prefers the Francoist government of 1940, 80 years ago, which emerged from a coup d'état, a war and the atrocious and ferocious repression against the civilian population than the present, which emerged democratically from the ballot box. Look at the degree of political plurality of our democracy and the prevailing freedom of expression that allows VOX to advocate Francoism in this House. Mr. Abascal, do we remember some members of a government, that of 1940, which you think is better than the current one? Francisco Franco, dictator, couptist and genocidal; Ramon Serrano Suñer, philonazi, promoter of the Blue Division and admirer of Hitler; Agustín Muñoz Grandes, couptist and decorated by Hitler, and General Yagüe, author of the massacre of Badajoz. By the way, that Government, and those who succeeded it until 1975, are guilty of murdering thousands and thousands of Spaniards and Spaniards, of filling prisons and concentration camps with people whose only crime was to oppose that regime of terror that you now feel nostalgia for. And as Agustín López says - a hundred-year-old toledano survivor of Franco's concentration camp in Sigüenza, Guadalajara -: I do not hold you grudges, but this is never forgotten. In Franco's Spain, those who thought and were in power were out of the law, those who committed crimes. You use our democracy to attack it politically from within, you present yourself as the last bastion against the anti-Christian apocalypse and feminism controlled by Pedro Sánchez, but all you are is the echo of Francoist Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, talking does not make us weaker and listen even less. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote negatively on your proposal because it is neither relevant nor useful, nor does it respond to the wishes of the majority of citizens who want to channel debates into the rules of democracy and political priority. Only in this way, from the point of view of the democratically expressed positions, can those who may be tempted to express them by means that are not lawful can also be removed. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Zaragoza. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u63	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. Firstly, we begin with the non-legislative proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group concerning the urgent elaboration of a national plan for industry in Spain. Mrs Rueda Perelló has the floor for the presentation of the initiative. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u64	Thank you, Madam President. The current context calls for a new urgent plan for industry in Spain. [[The Lord]] Mr Zaragoza will come later to say that this has to do with Franco, so I ask for a little attention because this issue is important for Spain. [[Applauds]] In recent decades the Spanish industrial sector has suffered a significant loss of weight in all economic activity. The few clear policies of those who ruled before and the irresponsible management of the current Government lead to the closure of the Nissan factory, affecting more than 2500 direct workers and 20,000 indirect workers and Sniace's request for liquidation, due, among other reasons, to cuts by the Government to cogeneration plants. There is Alcoa's closure, on which more than five hundred operators and about three hundred auxiliary companies depend. Imports of goods fell by 39 % and exports by 34 %, with US tariffs on Spanish products. The automotive industry is forecast to fall by 38% at the end of the year, Spain being the second largest country in Europe. And to all this catastrophe are added the dismissals of Airbus, Navantia and those who will suffer the workers in Andalusia of Alestis, which on the next 23rd day have been called to an indefinite general strike. You see, business closures or layoffs in Asturias, Galicia, Catalonia and Andalusia; a national plan for viable and solid industry is urgently needed. Industry is an essential sector. Its positive impact on the trade balance, its contribution to technological progress, its ability to attract investment and generate quality and stable employment, its tractor effect, its presence in rural areas hard hit by the closure of coal mines and thermal power plants are reasons for their relevance. However, we have an industry wounded by the action or inaction of the parties that ruled before - Rajoy and Zapatero - and now with Sánchez and his partners, who with their ideological agenda made of green destroy our Spanish industry, sending directly to unemployment worthy and qualified workers to make us dependent on the most polluting countries on the planet. How incongruous! Spain maintains an intermediate position, below the European Union, and is far from achieving the 20% target set by Brussels. It is necessary to boost the growth and grouping of Spanish companies and a foreign policy as a key instrument for the defence and promotion of our industry. It is a priority to promote the consumption of products manufactured in Spain, which will encourage the revival of industrial activity, as well as to inform about the benefits of consuming Spanish products as a guarantee of safety, quality and innovation based on talent. If anything has taught us the terrible Wuhan virus is that we must diversify the industry, self-supply ourselves and depend on fewer markets or other markets like Chinese, which is disloyal to Spanish. The high energy prices in Spain endanger our industry. The electro-intensive status is pending, which, according to the sector, does not solve its difficulties. The VOX Parliamentary Group has presented this initiative, which I summarize in twelve proposals. I'll sum them up because maybe they haven't even read them, or maybe they'll just say we're talking about the past, we're lying, or even, as they always do, they insult us. These proposals are: to establish measures for the consolidation of SMEs, to bet on the training closely linked to the reindustrialisation and future work of our young people, who do not have to emigrate because they have no opportunities, to promote R & D projects, to adopt measures to support Spanish companies in their export activity within and outside the European Union, to defend Spanish industrial interests at the international level, to strengthen measures to control industrial products from third countries and to ensure compliance with national and European rules, to promote the consumption of products manufactured in Spain, to guarantee the competitiveness of energy supply, to simplify, to homogenise and to provide security to the regulatory framework because it will guarantee investment, to eliminate bureaucratic barriers and inequality between self-governments, to reduce the tax burden and to digitise as a factor of competitiveness. Now, Podemos and Esquerra are going to talk about Franco again - what an obsession!-; stop destroying and build. Ladies and gentlemen, you know perfectly well that all positions are necessary for our industry. They act against relocation, against companies moving their centres to countries with less labour costs, less safety at work, lower energy costs and less environmentally friendly legislation. Do something about mass closures and layoffs, about unemployment and misery. And even if they justify their abstention or their vote against, they know perfectly well that they are really hurting the industry because the current model does not work. We have already told you from the rostrum: a dead plant, however watered, will not resurrect, and they are killing the industry. Socialist Party, Podemos, think how to justify their no to those who send to the queues of unemployment, their no to the progress of Spain and their yes to negotiate with Bildu. Today we have heard your representative say: Today we are conditioning the Government of Spain. They are conditioned by those who have not yet asked for forgiveness for the murder of many innocent people, are conditioned by phyloetatras and separatists, so act in conscience. And in front of this, VOX. The present, the future of millions of Spaniards depends on us being able to make Spain an attractive country for investment, fertile for industry, conducive to entrepreneurship and employment, and in this VOX will always work. I conclude with a message for self-employed workers and entrepreneurs in industry, automotive, manufacturing, agri-food, tourism, textiles, defence, metallurgical, construction; all of them and their families: solidarity and our support and respect. A message of hope for the Spaniards who suffer and suffer unemployment and uncertainty: there is already one day less for this irresponsible government. Go ahead, Spaniards, fearless of anything or anyone! Strength and honor. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u65	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendments put forward, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u66	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are again talking about industry, and it is two weeks in a row. This is very good, I think industry is going to thank it because it has been the great unknown for a very long time, at least in the debates in this Chamber, with which we are glad that we have been talking two weeks in a row about this sector so important for our economy, for the recovery of our economy, but this sector is in the ICU, ladies and gentlemen. It is in the ICU because the last governments have abandoned it - we have already talked about this here and I do not think I will repeat myself because I said it exactly the same last week - and because this government, the current one, instead of betting on tools, instead of betting on developments that really want to favour industry, continues to talk about nationalisations, interventionism, and flees from support for the entrepreneur and the value that the market has. If you do not leave that speech, we will never be able to develop the industry again, with which it will go from being in palliatives and in the ICU to being frankly dead. We saw it last week with the motion of the lords of the BNG, in which we were again told about local and regional solutions. Last week in this Chamber many parties defended the need for a national pact for industry, which has been discussed for a very long time in the form of a pact, in the form of an agreement, in the form of a plan. The Secretary General of Industry appeared last week and we reminded him again. In our view, it was once again a self-fulfilling appearance by the Government on the real situation of our industry. And not only do we tell some political parties, but the whole industry is telling them. Gentlemen of the Government, react because they're late, our industry can't waste any more time. Mrs Rueda, you present us with this non-legislative proposal that my group has amended because we believe you are missing some things. You do not tell us about the stimulus plans or shock plans, which are necessary at the moment, for example, for the automotive sector, a key sector at the moment in Spain; you have not told us about the intermodality of transport; you have not told us anything about the Mediterranean corridor or the Atlantic corridor, about the revision of territorial taxation to avoid double taxation, which are issues that are in our amendment. I think we are going to make a compromise, which is why we thank you for your willingness to study it, to value it and, of course, to reach an agreement to make this compromise. We cannot agree very much with that of the product made in Spain, I have tried to explain it to you before; first, because we cannot understand that we want a new regulation with a new brand that would force to have a certification of that brand, that would lead to re-intervention within the industrial production processes because in the end there would be some body that would have to defend that brand, which is to re-create more bureaucracy and create legal uncertainty for many manufacturers, but above all because in the end it involves a little ignorance of the Spanish and European industrial sector. Firstly, because there is a competition rule in our European Union that prevents the development of that brand. And second, because our companies do not make Spanish products 100 percent, our companies import, export and manufacture components. I'll give you just a few examples. The automobile, it has exported - data of the year 2019- worth 48 billion euros and it has imported of the value of 40 000 euros; vehicles, they have been exported of the value of 36 billion euros and they have been imported of the value of 22 000 euros; the enterprises of the food industry have exported of the value of 48 500 million euros and they have imported of the value of 35 500 to be able to make our products; equipment goods, 52 500 million exported and 63 billion imported; or the chemicals, where it has been exported of 43 billion euros and it has been imported of the value of 51 billion. There is no one hundred percent Spanish production, it is the market economy. Spanish companies compete within the market to ensure, through innovation, that their products are as profitable as possible, obtain the highest profitability and with the highest quality for the final consumer. In any case, we believe that his non-law proposal is positive and, as I have said, we hope to reach an agreement. But I also want to tell you one thing, Mrs Rueda and Mr de VOX; we have come for many years to demand a national plan for industry, we have worked with the People's Party Government and the Socialist Party Government to try to get one - not just us, more groups, of course - which we think is great for you to join us right now, but we hope you will comply. When that covenant is possible, if the minister decides to develop that covenant, will you really sit down? Or are they going to do as in the Commission for Reconstruction? Mrs Rueda, I would like to remind you of one thing: in the Committee on Reconstruction there has been a lot of talk about industry, there have been many companies, the government has been present and it has been time to ask and say things to them, but you have been absent. That's the time. The institutions are for that, Mrs. Rueda, gentlemen of VOX, that is what the institutions are for. You can't steal the debate in institutions to shake the street or shake people...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u67	Mr. Gutierrez, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u68	I'm done, Mr. President. The interests of Spain, Mrs. Rueda, are defended here. Therefore, here and in institutions it is where we have to work. You really abandon the populism that forces you to be constantly manifesting and saying things on the streets, and work a little bit more with the rest of the groups that we really want to develop a national plan for industry in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u69	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Herrero Bono has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u70	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today the VOX Parliamentary Group brings to this House a non-legislative proposal concerning the promotion of industry in our country, a non-legislative proposal that in its explanatory statement shows with concrete data, unlike what has been said here in the rostrum, how the implementation of industry in Spain increased exponentially during the years 2013 to 2018, precisely in the years of the People's Party government. [[Applauds]] For this reason, Mrs Rueda, I wanted to thank you for highlighting the specific data contained in your explanatory statement, but I realize that your party also acts like populist parties, which when they write in the explanatory statement say one thing and then another completely different. That is why I told him that in this explanatory statement they value, for example, the exponential increase in the export of industrial products. It spoke in 2016 of an increase of 4.8%, in 2017 of an increase of 7.7%, until 2018, the year of the motion of censure, in which it was unfortunately reduced to 3.3%. It is just the years of a Spanish government of the People's Party that show well to the clear that our economic policies are the right and right for the creation of these more than 2500 new companies and the three and a half million new jobs generated all that time. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish already know that the governments of the People's Party are synonymous with business creation, with job creation and with the creation of new opportunities. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, this no-law proposal is nothing more than a copy and glue of that state pact for the industry that the People's Party government promoted and designed, a pact for the industry that had the consensus of the economic sectors and social actors, and that only the Socialist Party's unwiseness in the motion of censure led to the frenzy. Two years have already passed when the situation in our country has changed, more if possible, due to the impact of the pandemic and the COVID-19. What was worth by then has now been short and deficient, so it is necessary to introduce new measures to help boost our country's industry; measures on the five programmatic pillars of the 5x5 plan, announced this morning by our president, Pablo Casado, in the Madrid Business Confederation: taxation, labour flexibility, training, administrative simplification and competitiveness. Measures that we propose as amendments to its non-legislative proposal in order to help and strengthen our industry in response to current demands, such as the creation of this national agency independent of recovery in order to receive the support of the European Union and avoid the patronage that this government has repeatedly practiced; to promote sustainable development and the gradual decarbonisation of the economy, because those of the People's Party, unlike VOX, do not deny this evidence. We do believe in climate change. [[Applauds]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are even more surprised when you speak in your explanatory statement, among other things, about energy efficiency. We in the People's Party are going to continue to work for a just transition, a smart transition for no industry in our country to stay behind; a transition that will allow our industry to adapt competitively and ensure stable energy costs, through the implementation of green infrastructures and by putting into effect that electro-intensive status, by the way, a status of electro-intensive consumers whose approval is delayed by the Sánchez government for further disconcerting and unstable our basic industry. Now they're taking it down and they're saying they're going to approve it next October. We'll see if it's another lie from this evil government. Finally, Mr President, if there is anything that entrepreneurs or new investor groups lack in this country, then trust in this government. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we now need more than ever a general budget that is credible and sustainable; a confidence that could begin to be recovered if, for example, the Sánchez Government reduced its large number of ministerial portfolios, its large number of trusted friends or/or simplified administrative structures. Or, for example, since we are talking about regaining confidence in our country, we would close the whole circle if we supported this House - as our President, Pablo Casado, has announced - the committee of inquiry into the negligence and incompetence of this executive in the management of the pandemic. Therefore, Mrs Rueda, we ask you to include these amendments in your non-legislative proposal to encourage and assist industry in our country. And don't do it for us, don't do it for the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u71	Mr. Herrero, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u72	...do it for the good of Spain and for the industry of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u73	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. As Mr Rodríguez, spokesman for Citizens, rightly pointed out, it is already customary for the plenary sessions of the Congress to discuss initiatives of political orientation around industry, which, however, has been relegated by the Government, as demonstrated by the exclusion of the Minister of Industry, Reyes Maroto, from the Commission for Reconstruction. Nothing less than a ministry that rotates more than 40% of GDP and national employment continues without exercising its capacity to drive, which in the case of industry has been penalized for more than two years by today's vice-president, Teresa Ribera, with her traumatic and dramatic ecological transition measures; traumatic as a result of which they involve radical conversion for some industrial sectors; and dramatic as a result of the effects on thousands of workers who have already lost their jobs and on their families. The proposal put forward by VOX and defended by Mrs Rueda is broad and insists on issues that have already been raised in this House, but which have not just been echoed in the Government, and to which I am going to give my support by interpreting that what the initiative calls a national plan reinforces the need for the state pact that has been being demanded for years, in particular with the declaration that at the end of 2016 was widely signed by social actors, business and sectoral organizations, which was truncated by the motion of censure when it was being launched, that then - and Mr Herrero recalled - had a strong political support. I conclude, Mr President, by pointing out that it is extremely urgent that our industry should finally be placed among the top priorities and that, at the same time, Spain should be able to join the ambitious agenda of the new European Commission, which Commissioner Thierry Breton explained to us here in the General Courts at the end of February. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u75	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I think it is obvious that we must rethink the guidelines of the new industrial policy which, by the way, was adopted in February 2019. Obviously, what has happened in our country obliges us to do a strategic reflection again. A strategic reflection, on the one hand, at the national level and, on the other, also at the autonomous level because the autonomous communities also have differences in industrial matters. And I put, for example, the case of Navarra. Navarra is a community whose 30% of GDP is industrial gross domestic product; 23% of employment is in the industrial sector; we represent 1.75 of the national industrial gross domestic product when we represent only 1.4 of the Spanish population; we are a community that has a broad entrepreneurial trajectory; with a broad industrial trajectory; an industrial sector that has often been a shock absorber of economic crises because it has destroyed less GDP and also destroyed less employment. I think that makes us an ideal community to act as a national industry test bank. And that's what we offer the government, which chooses Navarra as a community to make industrial innovations because, in the end, what industry needs is a nearby innovative ecosystem and we, with three universities, can offer that knowledge. As I was telling you, this strategy, which, on the one hand, has to be autonomous and, on the other, it also has to be national, it has to go through digital transformation, ecological transformation, but, above all, it has to go through something that is the retention of talent. We can't escape more talent from this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u77	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u78	Thank you, President. I will speak very briefly. It is clear that there has not been an industrial policy that faces, above all, the structural challenges of industry in the medium and long term. So far and as a result of the pandemic, there have been short-term measures, and let us hope that this will change because what the pandemic has shown us is the need for a robust industry and that it will be able to adapt to the circumstances. However, and without going into further detail, our group will vote against it because we believe that the Government already has the mandate to draw up a plan, which was also requested by various parliamentary groups, I think I remember that by the People's Group and subsequently Citizens. And my group, through a motion, urged to present a competitiveness strategy and a coordinated plan with the autonomous communities for the key sectors of the economy. Therefore, your proposal seems to us to be somewhat out of time in this respect, as the order was already made. In addition, the GNP they present does not, in our view, cover the autonomous reality and in some of its objectives involves interference with the exclusive competences of the autonomous communities. We believe that it lacks temporality and that it is a totum revolutionum of different objectives. To quote some, we do not agree with uniformity in regulation. What is clear is that there is already a diagnosis of the situation, there are common objectives, but each autonomous community starts with a reality and an industrial situation with its own territorial, economic and political characteristics, which require a strategy of its own in key sectors. The key is an industrial policy; the key to industrial policy lies in the productive fabric of enterprises and therefore of each territorial reality. We do not need plans right now - because we already know that there is this order and there is a strategy - but a real involvement of the public sector together with the private sector to increase competitiveness, with strong support from the institutions and, above all, from the universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Thank you for intervening from the seat. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week he advocated on behalf of the BNG a motion with measures aimed at saving the serious industrial crisis in Galicia in various sectors, and the heading of that proposal was the need to promote a reindustrialisation plan in Galicia that took into account the special characteristics of its productive fabric and its resources, since a single industrial plan for the whole Spanish State that does not depart from the reality of each country, even if positive measures were incorporated, in our view, would not solve the real problems of our industry and our economy. Precisely for that reason, he emphasized that Galicia needed full capacity to decide on its affairs. It needs sovereignty in order to put an end to the plundering of its resources and to promote self-centered development on the basis of its enormous potential; a development that is adapted to the challenges of the ecological transition by guaranteeing social justice and well-being. But not only do we need a plan; we also need courageous and urgent measures such as the nationalization of companies in strategic sectors, such as Alu Ibérica in A Coruña or Alcoa in San Cibrao - the latter in case it does not succeed - a solution that we presented last week and which the proposers now rejected. You will say that they are perilous solutions. Ask, if you want, Alcoa workers and the people of A Mariña to see what they think of their position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. Also, thank you for intervening from the seat. Mr Boadella Esteve, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u82	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. With regard to the non-legislative proposal presented to us, it is curious that you propose a national plan for industry, because I do not know if you have seen that in that Constitution to which you so much appealed earlier, its Title VIII, concerning the territorial organization of the State, is precisely the one that enables many autonomous communities to have competence in industry. On the other hand, the autonomous communities do not appear in this proposal. It is a proposal that continues to be a generalist: encouragement measures to consider SMEs, internationalisation, R & D+i... You were telling us: I'm sure you haven't read it. No, no, we have looked at it and there are two points that I would like to comment on in depth. One is energy, ensuring the competitiveness of supply. Demand from the sector, closed networks, generate more competitiveness. It is a subject that has been coming from behind in Spain for more than ten years, and which, for example, would benefit polygons such as the petrochemicals of Tarragona. But this is still pending within the framework of the Spanish Government. I am talking to you about the petrochemicals of Tarragona and the entire sector of the Mediterranean Corridor to address the issue of infrastructure. In the part where they talk about infrastructures they comment: measures of homogenization and reduction of the logistic cost. When you intend to homogenise all industrial costs, what you do is damage those areas that are really the locomotive. When you talk about homogenizing, you do what - coming from you is surprising - you said that socialists and communists should do, which is to equal below, to put everyone at the same level but always below, without letting anyone prosper. What needs to be done is not to homogenize; what needs to be done is to bet on infrastructures, such as the Mediterranean corridor. Because the Mediterranean corridor is 45 % of the state's GDP, 50,6 % of exports, 49,4 % of imports, more than 50 % of international tourists and more than 60 % of the movement of goods. Betting on the Mediterranean corridor and facing these infrastructures is the priority, and not homogenizing from below. Therefore, do not tell us that we do not read their proposals, what they cannot ask us to share them, because we must bet on the Mediterranean corridor and those areas that are locomotives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u83	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. Thank you for intervening from the seat. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor. [[Mr Baldoví Roda asks for the floor]] It's stuck here. Wait a minute. [[Pause]] The communication was that you weren't involved. The times had been adjusted on the basis of your non-intervention, but I will give you the floor for two minutes, Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your kindness. We are faced with a proposition that, instead of talking about homelands and those things that VOX likes to talk about, he talks about useful things, about industry. I can even admit that many of the proposals you make can be shared and, moreover, could be shared by virtually the whole House. However, I am missing in your proposal a reference to the green transition of our industry, which I believe can generate very important work niches. As a Valencian, I'll tell you four things. Energy here, in the state, is very expensive; it plagues our industry. Renewable energy must be boosted and, in this regard, we ask the Government to do something about the cogeneration of industries, mainly in Castellón. Then we must leave the centralist mentality, we must end infrastructures, such as the Mediterranean corridor, so that our industries - and I say ours - from all over the state, can compete on equal terms with European industries, so that Castellón's tile can reach the centre of Europe, so that our oranges can reach the centre of Europe and be able to compete in conditions. A public transport stake and a transport law must also be made that allows workers to have access to their jobs on favourable terms. I end one thing: industry is an autonomous competition. In order to give impetus to industry, the autonomous communities must be provided with fair funding. I end up here and keep what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Now, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u86	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Within the ambiguity, the lack of clarity and content that characterizes the initiative that we are discussing today, it is impossible not to ask what a national industrial pact would entail in terms of the need for support, commitments and budgets, especially if the initiative comes from a party that systematically advocates the dismantling of the State; this without taking into account the direct abuse of the autonomous powers established by the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy in industrial matters, which has already been cited. We do not advocate an industrial plan that seeks to take away powers from public administrations which already have the power to exercise their actions; we have on the table interesting proposals from the European Commission - as you yourself endorse in your initiative - which do not precisely seek centralisation and, consequently, the destruction of the Catalan industry. Let us not talk about national plans; in any case, let us talk about European plans and their implementation under the principle of subsidiarity. We do not conceive of industrial growth without the assumption of objectives to combat climate change and the improvement of environmental quality. In its outline of the industrial plan, the implementation of the circular economy, the industrial union through the reduction and reuse of waste, among other key elements of industrial development, shines through its absence. If you really want to talk about industrial development and growth, let us talk about specific measures that can be implemented by the competent administrations and not about the creation of new agreements that seek only recentralisation; let us talk about objective ratios that link the evolution of the economy and the reduction of atmospheric emissions; let us talk about decentralised implementation of circular economy policies; let us talk about the Mediterranean corridor; let us talk about investments in renewables to generate industrial fabric and local R & D; let us talk about promoting an efficient administration that supports SMEs, which allows them to compete and grow in a context of equal conditions for large companies. I was advancing VOX's spokesman who in my speech would quote Franco. I'm sorry to disappoint you, but it's not necessary. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] I will repeat to you what our spokesman usually says: flags don't feed. Nationalism does not favour industrialization. [[Rumors]] And, if I may, I will invoke the three negationisms that impregnate your GNP and that drive us objectively - and for your tranquility, I suppose - to vote no; a triple negationism, no longer of the plurinational reality, but not even of the autonomous reality of the state; a negationism of the European global dimension of the economy and a negationism of the climate emergency. I hope you weren't disappointed in this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u88	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. What do we talk about when we talk about Spanish industry? One of the characteristics of our industry is that it is highly dependent on foreign capital and, in particular, large transnational foreign capital corporations. One example is the automotive industry. All the car assembly plants that we have in our country are of foreign capital and are those that have tractor capacity on the whole activity of the sector. What happens to this huge dependence when one of these multinationals decides, as has happened, to move production to another place? For the drama is not only for the jobs of this plant, but for the tens of thousands of jobs of the whole auxiliary industry that supplies it. In Asturias we know this situation with the names of many companies. You talk about simplifying the regulatory framework and lowering taxes. Tell me, do you come, as the GNP says, to defend Spain or to put a red carpet on foreign private capital, in many cases speculative? Where is the responsibility to protect our employment and our interests as a country from transnational corporations, which they can do and undo at their will? It seems to me that you remember a lot - sometimes even seeming to evoke - the great and free Spain of the Franco dictatorship - I am going to quote it - but in reality what you have is a quite small Spain, the small and free Spain for which you can allow it, for the young people. The rich are rich by nature, aren't they? What a slogan for a union! It seems to me that the diameter of this is little more than that of Núñez de Balboa in that small Spain. [[Applauds]] This PNL also has something they like a lot in their rhetoric, because when the wise man points to the sky the fool looks at the finger, and that is very useful for fake news and for bubbles. When they talk about the high energy cost, the core of the problem lies in the oligopoly of electrics, in a system supported through state actions and in the legislation developed over the last decades. Iberdrola, Endesa, Naturgy, EDP and Viesgo - these last two are going to merge - have 70% of the production, almost 100% of the distribution network and 90% of the final sales. These actors are key to talking about energy depletion. This cannot be relied on by those companies alone for a matter of will. And, as they are concerned about unprotective environmental legislation, I hope that they will start to abandon the path of climate negationism and understand once and for all what is happening to the planet. [[Applauds]] With this GNP you claim to defend Spain. Defend who? To all young people who say they're not qualified enough? Because that is what his GNP says; it is that we have read it well, perhaps this is the subject. Of course, vocational training needs to be improved, but that is not the reason why there is no employability in our youth. Since they passed the Madrid Games Week a few months ago, I'm going to talk to you about the video game industry, which is also industry. Unemployment in a leading sector such as this is not due to lack of training; it is because of the crunch, which is precisely the exploitation that forces developers to meet impossible deadlines that end their health and prevent the expansion of recruitment. The problem with this and with vocational training is that business fabric which accepts and encourages abusive practices. But don't worry you, we're going to end them, because we're going to end the labor reform. [[Applauds]] I link with what they say about R & D, because again they do not match the causes of the problems. They say the problem is the shortage of SMEs with innovative projects and the lack of private spending on R & D. Investor effort in R & D in Spanish companies, according to the latest Cotec report published this year, 0,30 %; in British companies, 0,23 %; in Germany, 0,17 %. Wow! That's not why, anyway. The business sector in Spain has increased its research staff by 18% more than in 2009. However, the public sector does not have research staff in the 2009 indexes; on the contrary, it has decreased because it has accumulated a decline of at least 9.8 % in the last decade. We must prevent our research talent from going to other countries where they are valued. I leave for the end the solution that the right and the right have for all evils: lowering taxes. How do you think we can have a strong state that will help drive the future if it is not financed, more if we take into account the fiscal pressure, which in Spain is significantly lower than in countries in our environment? But I'm going to make it easier: it's not about lowering or raising taxes, it's about who. Although I see that with this the People's Party has had no problem and has not amended it, I imagine it's because of Ayuso's recipe, that drop in the IRPF that will only favor those who have revenues of more than 6000 euros per month. I do not want to leave this rostrum - I am going to ask the President - without saying that culture is also part of the productive model and that the cultural industry, which exists, is mobilizing this Thursday, 17 September, because they are on red alert. Since we have to look at European neighbours, let us take a good look because they are clear there and our group too: culture is safe, it is a good of first necessity and it has to be a strategic sector in economic recovery. I'm closing because I'm running out of time. You say strength and honor; we say: dignity, labour rights and the future. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u89	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Soler Mur has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon, VOX brings us an initiative that sets out a national plan of salvation for our country's industry. First of all, I would like to welcome VOX's recent interest in industry, because it is a key factor, multiplier in our economy; the jobs it generates are stable and of high quality, high pay and good wages. But I want to tell you that this initiative is timeless. You should have raised this initiative when it ruled the People's Party, because then there was no Ministry of Industry - a whole declaration of principles - then there was no industrial policy. But do you know what was going on? Well, then you were in the People's Party and that's why you couldn't introduce her. [[Applauds]] They give some data that we can share - the gradual decrease in the weight of industry in GDP and in the gross value added of the Spanish economy - but they do not analyze when the weight of industry in GDP has fallen further. I will tell you: it was, specifically, from 1997 to 2004, in the middle of the Spanish economy's boom; the more it had to be invested is when the weight of industry in the economy fell further. You know why? Because private investment was primarily directed, in the absence of the public, towards speculative, real estate and urban investments. Do you know why that happened? Basically, because a Soil Law was passed in 1998 that practically liberalized the whole country to be able to build. And do you know what one of your star measures is in your own election program? Of its one hundred measures, forty-seven: the liberalization of the Soil Law, again. Haven't we learned anything? Is that the proposal that VOX has, liberalizing the soil? That is practically incompatible with industrial policy. I would also like to tell you that this is late because the Minister of Industry herself, Reyes Maroto, here in the Chamber of Congress, and in the Senate, in the Committee on Industry, has already announced the development of the state pact for industry. It is late because we, the Socialist Group, have already put forward a non-legislative proposal before its own so that we can implement that state pact for industry. You are talking here today about industrial crises, but, look, the industrial crises of now must have been prevented or resolved by industrial investments five, six and seven years ago. And now, this government is working to save all the jobs and businesses it can and to prevent this from happening again in the future. I do not know if I am more shocked to hear you talk about energy efficiency or Mr Herrero's transition. This, you, let's be serious, you've never believed it. But I will give you one argument: the ecological transition must not be made only by conviction, but by obligation. We export 80% of the cars that are manufactured in this country and, either we comply with the ecological transition that the European Union is making, or we will not be able to continue exporting. What do they propose, increase the size of companies? We have access to the financing of Enisa, Cersa and the programme to support business growth. Right now, companies are enduring mainly thanks to ERTE and ICOs; eight hundred thousand operations, 98% to SMEs and self-employed, and 100 billion mobilized to support the Spanish company and industry. They propose to improve VET, vocational training. We have also presented a plan to modernize the FP, with EUR 1.5 million, to implement this modernisation, this improvement of the FP. It also promotes research. We have presented the programme of support for innovative clusters and support for industrial projects incorporating research. It speaks of public-private collaboration; access to finance is essential. And also the 10 billion that we are going to put, not as Mr Gutiérrez said in nationalizing, but mainly in collaborating in the capital of the main companies in this country, in strategic sectors, as the main countries of the European Union, such as Germany, do. They also talk about lowering taxes. Sofía Castañón told him, but I will also tell him: there is no tax haven that stands out because it is an industrial power. You are also talking about monitoring support for industry. I recognize there a certain capacity, because it is true that some Reindus has not gone where he should have gone. There is one being investigated, 2.5 million euros to a company to manufacture pellets, and you will be able to contribute some of your experience. Do you know who he was given to? A former senior VOX leader, Francisco Serrano; there they can help. [[Applauds]] Mr de VOX, if you want to support industry, support the state pact for industry and support the budget; that is what you must do. And I also want to tell the PP that if he wants institutional confidence, he doesn't have to do two things: talking bad about Spain in the European Union and issues like the Kitchen, because trust, which is institutional trust doesn't generate much, it doesn't generate much trust in the institutions. [[Applauds]] I just want to tell you to brag that you came here to save Spain, but don't worry that there is already the Socialist Party and most of the parliamentary arch to save Spain from you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u91	Thank you very much, Mr Soler. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Rueda, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u92	Yes, we accept a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u93	All right. Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations may, in common, request a joint delegation of the European Parliament to collect specific questions on the Spanish monarchy. [[File number 162/000368]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u94	We then move on to the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, concerning the CIS to recover in its surveys specific questions about the Spanish monarchy. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u95	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it will soon be eighty years after the shooting of Lluís Companies, the only president in Europe shot by fascism, perhaps the best president the Generalitat has ever had. I wanted to begin my speech by reminding the President that the democratic memory law has been passed and that his conviction to the firing squad has been overturned, an act that was not legal, but an act of barbarism. I believe that today we must start this debate on the monarchy by reminding all the Republicans who defended democracy with their lives. [[Applauds]] I think I speak on behalf of many people in this House and outside if I say it was time; after vetoing the commissions of inquiry, even when it is about business with the Saudi dictatorship, after preventing appearances, hundreds of questions, many of Congressman Iñarritu, to remove from the Journal of Sessions all the references to the Bourbon case, when for three months now the prosecutor's office in Switzerland is investigating the Emeritus king, and forty-five days after the Emeritus king has fled to the place of events, in the Saudi dictatorship - by the way, today I have read that the Francisco Franco Foundation, if this law is approved, is also going to go; likewise they will go to the same place, to Abu Dhabi, to the dictatorship where the Emeritus is - it was time, as I said, ladies and gentlemen, to start talking about the monarchy and to tear down the wall of opacity and silence that has been imposed all these years. With the government of Felipe González, the monarchy was included in the CIS question, along with the rest of the state institutions. It was a good sign of democratic normality and more in view of the fact that it is an institution with little democratic legitimacy, but twenty years later it was decided to withdraw. It was with the government of Mariano Rajoy, the Barbas, according to the members of Operation Kitchen. From there, the monarchy became a taboo and we've been without asking people what they think about the monarchy for five years. Why did that happen? Well, all you have to do is see the CIS. When the monarchy began to dive in its score, in its popularity, in the midst of corruption scandals and polemics such as hunting, then it was no longer interested in people's opinion. There the curtain went down, the lights went out and it was over. While people are part of an atrezzo and applause, there is no problem; when people are critical, then the surveys are not interesting. That was, in fact, the gift that was given to Philip VI in his coronation after the abdication. In fact, the question was removed at that time, with the abdication of Juan Carlos. What does the CIS president, Mr. Tezanos, tell us today? It tells us that, in fact, that question has been removed because it is not of interest, it is not in the interest of Spanish citizens. Spanish citizens are not interested in the monarchy. It doesn't matter if there's a king who takes 100 million in his suitcase - the things that could be done with 100 million! - of allegedly criminal commissions and puts them in tax havens. That doesn't matter, according to Mr. Tezanos. And it tells us that the monarchy is no longer a problem. Until then it was supposed to be a problem, but now it tells us it's no longer a problem. I think, actually, if the question comes up, it's not because it's stopped being a problem, it's because it's the problem. In fact, CIS does not ask for the same reasons that Adolfo Suárez did not want a referendum on the head of state after Franco's death. Let's tell the truth to people: because they knew that the result would be that of the republic, because they knew that Spain had changed, it was republican, as it is now, and that is also indicated by the surveys of private companies that do ask. It has cost them to do so because not everyone in this country could freely talk about the monarchy. Journalists did not dare to carry out certain investigations and there were even singers who were convicted and had to go to Belgium. European justice has given them reason. Now there are these surveys and what they say are two things, basically: one, that the monarchy is in the last position of appreciation, much worse than the political class - imagine!-, and the other conclusion of these surveys is that the majority of Spanish citizens are Republicans and that many right-wing voters prefer the republic - to me that surprised me - even one in four of VOX. Imagine how cross-cutting the republican feeling is. Of course the monarchy is interested, discuss it! It is the subject of debate. How it won't be! The problem is that for too long in Spain it has been an institution that has acted as a private institution, that has been outside democratic control, that it has not been possible to control and must be subject to the limits of the Transparency Act, and it is not now. It cannot be that we do not know about the journeys and the current accounts that they open or who they work for, because if we do not know that it is very possible that what has happened with the Emeritus King will happen again. We understand that on the right-wing bench they do not vote in favour of that proposal, after all they were thrown out for corruption and are afraid that the monarchy can also be thrown out for the same reasons. It would not be the first time; it has already been thrown twice in Spain to the kings and the two returned with coups d'état. The first, with the I Republic, and the second, with the coup d'état of the II Republic, when Franco later appointed the king as his successor...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u96	Mr. Asens, you must finish,
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u97	I ended up questioning the socialist comrades. I know that many of them today feel uncomfortable because they have the republican heart and are of strong democratic convictions. I want to remind you that today we are not going to vote republic or monarchy, even if one day we aspire to be able to vote on it; today we are going to vote on democracy and opacity, we are going to vote on whether citizenship is mature enough to give its opinion or not, whether what Felipe González did at the time was right or not...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u98	Mr. Asens, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u99	I'm done. And if the CIS is put at the service of the knowledge and truth of the citizenry or instead it is the service of the interests of some parties, the Royal House and the monarchs. That's what we voted for today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u100	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendments made by your group, Mr Iñarritu García, the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, is speaking.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the best poll: a referendum. With what is falling the normal and common sense would be to ask the citizenry what it thinks about the headship of the State, what model, what formula of State it wants, whether republic or monarchy. Today they have presented a law of memory and I congratulate them; that was not possible forty years ago. Why is it possible today? Because a time has passed, society has changed and you can ask without any problem. Asens mentioned earlier, the father of the avid reader already recognized in an interview that there was no referendum on republic or monarchy because the monarchy was lost. He recognized it himself. What's the problem now? It is true that for years they built a myth, that of the king who brought democracy, that of the austere, campechano king. It is also true that there are no juancarlists left today, except for some who have signed a letter of support, all those who have endorsed their actions and those who have meddrated in making him the ball. But now there's something else, there's a state operation to blame the son for those merits that were blamed on the father, but it doesn't hang. Moreover, if the head of State is so professional, he is so prepared, he is so exemplary, why not ask the citizenry what opinion he has about the head of State? What are you afraid of? Or is it that the reality is that more and more people are wondering what a king is for? Because while the assessment was positive, there was no problem in asking. Now, on the other hand, there are problems, even with a different king. Mr Sánchez said a phrase that left me a little astonished, that is that Philip VI represents the values of the Second Republic, which a Socialist said surprise. I see it as much as saying that a good beef chop represents the values of veganism. That's the sense I find in that phrase. But the reality is that now, while we have a Royal House with several corruption problems, a fled king emeritus - by the way, with an agreement that you have reached, but you do not want to come to this House to tell us how it was and how parliamentary questions and initiatives were vetoed by the Bureau, for you too, that this is surprising -, that state operation is carried out saying that there is an exemplary monarchy, but the truth is that it does not hang. As it is said in English, there is an elephant in the room. It's not Botswana's elephant, but there's a problem. Do you know of any case in politics that by covering, obviating and trying not to talk about it ceases to exist? The reality is there. Moreover, you deny something as simple as the CIS asking about one of the institutions of the State as the Royal House is. Several university and university students have carried out a project, along with several media, and in a few weeks they will do an important sociological study on the head of the state. What are you going to say? That he doesn't have rigor? You don't believe him? That's not sincere? What will happen if a clear majority emerges in this sociological study, as other surveys point out, which says it wants to be consulted on the head of state? Will they look somewhere else? I know it's not easy, but aren't they Republicans, or didn't they have that spirit? If you are so concerned about the future of the current head of state, you can read - I do not know if you have read it, but it is very interesting - the book of David Jiménez, who was director of El Mundo, in which he relates that at a meeting, in a meeting with Philip VI, he recognized that if there was a majority of society that did not support him, he would leave him and leave. Facilitate the present king to know whether or not there is a majority of citizenship that legitimizes or supports him, because it seems not. If you don't even let a survey be done, imagine, for something more common sense, which would be asking, because the best survey is a referendum. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u103	Thank you, President. We are undoubtedly at one of the most vulnerable moments of the monarchy, and it is that every day it becomes more difficult, if not impossible, to find arguments to sustain it. With its excesses, its corruptions, its dark business and its links with Francoism, the monarchy, the same monarchy has become evident. In view of this situation, as was to be expected, during the last weeks and months we have perceived a state operation to save it, if necessary by sacrificing the Emeritus king. Casually, those of 'I am not monarchical, I am juancarlist', now have become those of 'we already know what Juan Carlos is like, but Felipe is better prepared'. The great parties of the state and the main media insist on limiting any investigation, criticism or questioning to the emeritus king, as if Juan Carlos de Borbón were something different or far from the monarchical institution. Well, look, you can try to put all the firewalls you want, but I don't think that's hanging anymore. In any case, it must be said that I thank the proposing group for presenting this initiative, because it is really quite a novelty, as Mr Asens said, to have the opportunity to talk about the monarchy in this House. Questions, interpellations, motions and commissions of inquiry have already been vetoed, and it seems that parliamentary work always meets the same wall of opacity: the regime of 78 and its sacrosanct Head of State. As you will know, the Spanish state is configured as a kingdom in its last stage, by decision of the fascist dictator Francisco Franco Bahamonde. In 1947, just a decade after the coup d'état to the Republic, with the adoption of the fifth fundamental law of the Franco movement, the form of state was constituted that remains to this day. Twenty years later, in 1969, the same dictator named his successor, Juan Carlos de Borbón and Borbón. To the shame of any Democrat, this monarch, now resting in some palace in the Arab Emirates, swore allegiance to the fundamental principles of the Franco regime. However, to the misfortune of the Catalans and those who defend freedom, the authoritarian and repressive tic already came from before, was a characteristic of the Bourbons. The current King Philip VI is a direct heir to the one who suppressed the freedoms and institutions of the Catalan Countries in the early 18th century. It was Philip V. To be understood, no Catalan was surprised that on 3 October King Philip VI came out to legitimize the police violence of 1 October, since this is in his sad nature. And not only that; as we have seen in recent months, corruption is inherent in the Bourbons. Without having any need - let us not forget that they have an allocation of 21 000 euros per day from the General Budgets of the State -, Juan Carlos has committed crimes against the Public Treasury; his family then decides to publish it in full confinement; the Emeritus King flees to the Arab Emirates; the Government prevents us from investigating it, and so we are, as always, with the only European king directly sprinkled by corruption. And all this with absolute impunity. The monarch cannot be investigated, he is not even subject to any kind of responsibility. What's more, you can't even criticize him in a song. What's more, if it wasn't for European justice now for burning a picture of the king, we'd go to jail. As you can imagine, we will support this initiative because it is clear that we must know what citizens think about the monarchy. However, it must be said that we believe that it remains loose. First of all, we are surprised - it is clear that this is surprising to us in recent days and weeks - that a government party urges its own government through a non-legislative proposal, when they can do so through the BOE. Secondly, we are surprised that a group that calls itself a republican is preoccupied with the CIS rather than with a referendum on the monarchy. We must say that the non-legislative proposal is unambitious, but we appreciate the incorporation of our amendments, which also add the appreciation that the people of the monarchy have, and that we can also add what form of state the people want, what exactly the people defend, and secondly, because in addition, for sociological interest it allows us to know what people think about self-determination, about the independence of nations, something...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u104	Mrs. Rosique, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u105	I'm done. It is clear that from a technical point of view it is interesting. I'm done with an alert. We believe that we should say fewer words and do more actions. We can't let the CIS replace the referendums. The only way to know what people really think is by asking people what they think. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u106	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Mariscal Zabala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u107	United We can present to us today a non-legislative proposal for the CIS to ask the Spaniards again about the monarchy. From VOX we will vote against, not because we do not agree that the Spanish are asked, but because we know that this is not the real objective. In VOX we are not naive and we know that the social communist government, which we suffer, has launched a regime change in Spain to perpetuate itself in power, and the aim of this non-law proposal is to take a step further to achieve it. This Government wants to attack all the institutions of the State, which are called to limit its power: they have already done so with the Attorney General's Office, with the Prosecutor's Office, with Radio Televisión Española, with the CIS, and now they intend to do so with the parliamentary monarchy. It is that Podemos does not want to know the opinion of the Spaniards about the monarchy, what he pretends is to end it, and they want to do it by relying on a CIS survey. We imagine Churches posing it to Pedro Sánchez. If you, Pedro, use the CIS surveys to manipulate the Spanish's intention to vote, I will use them to make my Republican desires come true and overthrow Felipe VI. And Sanchez will have said yes, because the PSOE is using Podemos as a pawn to carry out its most licentious policies. Ladies and gentlemen of PSOE and Podemos, this is your plan and you are going to find in front of VOX and millions of Spaniards, who are not going to let us steal the best inheritance that our parents have given us, which is a free Spain, with deep-rooted and strong institutions that protect us from totalitarians like you. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] And many Spaniards who will face will be former voters of the PSOE and also of Podemos, because you came to politics with a great lie, that you came to end the caste, that you came to ensure that young people could live better than your parents and grandparents lived. They said they came to protect workers, self-employed, traders and to strengthen public health and education. Well, today you are in the government, you could do all these things and you don't do them. What do they do in the midst of the worst economic and health crisis facing the Spaniards? They are causing Members of this House to be debating that the state should use the scarce economic resources available to us to manipulate the opinions of the Spaniards about one of the institutions that in no way harms their well-being, such as the monarchy. [[Applauds]] The deputies of VOX have visited our provinces during the month of August to know face to face what are the problems of the Spaniards. In my case, I've been to Toledo. There I was able to talk to doctors and workers at nursing homes, and when I asked them what they were worried about, none of them told me the CIS didn't ask them about the monarchy. What they told me is that what takes away their dream is not being able to trust their government, a government that first denied them the existence of the virus and then left them unmasked and untested. [[Applauds]] I was also able to spend one morning with two young farmers from Carranque, who are concerned that they cannot cope with their production costs and the massive arrival of extra-Community products, which makes them have to sell the fruit of their work. And I have also spoken to the ruined traders and self-employed of Talavera de la Reina, one of the cities with the highest unemployment rate in Spain, namely 30%. Guess, gentlemen of Podemos, what worries the Spanish unemployed? If you went back to the streets of the neighborhoods where you no longer live, you would realize that Spain which works or is unemployed and wishes to work is clear that its well-being and security go through a state with strong institutions, and that unemployment, misery, insecurity in its streets and the occupation of its homes are a consequence of the weak state project where you are the strong. [[Applauds]] Or otherwise, you know that you feel comfortable in your new neighbourhoods with walls and private security, and seek to perpetuate yourself in power. And to that end, the judiciary, the police, the army, which protect the Spaniards from you, from your ukupas, from your MENA and from your lazy and evildoers, hinders you. [[Applauds]] And the institutions that protect Spain from the separatist mafia with which you agree also hinder them. I mean, the king's bothering you. I'm finishing up. Gentlemen of Podemos, you do not want to know the opinion of the Spaniards. What you want is to find out who your opponents are to harass them in the streets, in the networks, in your media and in the universities. And I know that very well because I, like many VOX deputies, study at the public university...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u108	Mr. Marshal, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u109	I'm finishing up. ... specifically at Complute University, where we are used to you imposing your doctrine and persecuting the dissident. I conclude, thinking of all those young people who start their classes these days and that their false unions and progressive activists will ask them what they think of Spain. And if they wear a mask or a bracelet with reddish or they don't say, "Long live the Republic!" They'll be harassed. Thinking of them, and with the desire that they know that VOX is on their side, it is an honor for me to finish my first speech in this House saying: Long live Spain and live the king! [[Several Members: Alive!-Applause from the Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u110	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. As in past legislatures, the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can persist in its desire to occupy bodies as a step before the demolition of structures of the State and some of its main pillars. The difference is that they are now doing so from the government, thanks to Pedro Sánchez's divestments and concessions. On this occasion the public body on which they want to carry their interventionist anxieties and order what they have to probe is the Centre for Sociological Research, which for more than two years has been chairing an ex-member socialist militant of the executive of their party, whose manipulative and misguided work has already merited the reprobation of this Congress of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as CIS is maintained as a propaganda tool it will not be a scientific institute for demoscopic research, and the Spaniards will be the victims of weaving, rigging in surveys and misleading surveys. I shall vote against, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u113	Thank you, Vice President. The objective of this initiative, which presents a party that is in the Government of Spain and that amends a party with which the other party that is in the Government of Spain pastries, is not intended to know the opinion of the Spaniards about the monarchy. No, he's got a double target. The first is to air our constitutional system by attacking the head of state, and the second is that no one talks about what is happening in Podemos. That's why they're knitting a smokescreen, so no one can talk about the fraud and scam that Podemos has taken on for Spanish society. Because it's a scam and a fraud coming to the Spaniards to tell them that they were going to do politics differently and end up mud to the neck. It is a fraud to tell them that they came to do the anti-corruption policy and end up accused of having a B box. It is a fraud to say that they came to make the policy transparently and have invented a stinking plot in the Dina case or try to prevent a committee of inquiry in this Parliament on the financing of their party. And of course it is a fraud and a scam to many Spaniards to talk about honesty when you have falsified contracts for election campaigns. [[Applauds]] But the height of fraud and fraud is to flag a workers' discourse while they have become an affluent bourgeoisie settled in the upper neighborhoods of the capital. [[Applauds]] And since all this has already been realized all over Spain, then come and weave a smokescreen. But I'm going to tell you one thing, the Spaniards are expressing themselves in the ballot box and for the moment he's saying two things. The first is that they want the parliamentary monarchy as a form of state, and that is why we are voting for the majority of the options that we defend in the Constitution in this House. And the second thing they say is that they want you away from the institutions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u114	Mr. Sayas, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u115	They have said it in the Basque Country, they have said it in Galicia, and hope, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, because their tictac has only just begun. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u116	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u117	Since Franco appointed him successor, the monarchy has had a series of devices that protect his image and that align all the formal and informal powers in a sort of law of silence, which often becomes censored, from the media - which should be concerned that none of the last scandals of Juan Carlos have revealed them a Spanish media, and that journalists and media from outside the state have had to come to light - even the judiciary, which has not spared in persecution and censorship caricaturists, singers and even those who burn pictures of the king, which earned them a good ear-drop of the European Court of Human Rights. Neither are the secret services left out, and if not, let them tell the story of Barbara Rey's sex, lies and videotapes, in which the Cesid was involved, and it is not the only case in which the secret services were also one of these devices to protect a deteriorated image of the monarchy. And the CIS arrived, who also put on his side raising a partition against the free fall of a monarchy whose image was in decadence at the time of the elephant-hunting king or the pruning duke. We therefore find it a matter of basic transparency that the CIS can ask about the monarchy, and we find it regrettable that a party that was once called a Republican opposes even that. If what the CIS asked was for consistency with Republican values, the PSOE, as it said, would be a total suspension.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u118	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u119	Thank you very much, President. I will intervene, if I may, from the seat in consideration that I will do so very briefly. And I will do so to express our support for the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of Podemos, because we do not see reason nor have I heard enough or convincing explanation that the monarchy, like any other state institution, should not be evaluated by the citizenry through the CIS and its periodic surveys, as it had been until 2015, and especially with the events that have been surrounding and involving different members of the Family and Royal House since that date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u121	Thank you, President. We can, not content with the head of the CIS cooking all the polls with the PSOE hat, praising the government and its kindnesses, now he wants to tell them what to ask. We can get to the state what the invasion of the ultracorps is to the earth - or of the robbers of bodies if they like Don Siegel more, like me - and the members of Podemos, like the extraterrestrial pods of this magnificent film, are getting into all the institutions and springs of the state. We have a pampered comrade behind every door, you open a cabinet of a ministry and there's a Percherist from Podemos on pay. But to Nepotism and the Endogamy of Podemos we have to add now that they want to put their hands where they still do not arrive: they want to write the questions of the CIS. I'm curious about the questions you might come to if we take into account that Pablo Iglesias had his affiliates voted if a cassoplon was bought. I see the CIS wondering if it's air conditioning the pool or if it's picking up or riding. However, perhaps the Spaniards would like to be asked about some things. For example, what should Paul Churches do now that his party is accused of corruption. Or ask how feminist it is that false allegations of sexual harassment are made when someone points to your internal corruption. We could ask from the CIS if we should do a commission of inquiry into the corruption of Podemos; what do you think of the Spaniards that the PSOE - who says he filed a motion of censure against corruption? vote against a commission of inquiry against the corruption of Podemos and cover up an imputed party. Citizens are the only party that supports the investigation of all corruption. Ask the Spaniards if they would like to see all the corruption investigated. It would also be useful to know whether or not the Spaniards want an eternal, infinite expansion of ministries and high offices and unprecedented public posts; we might ask that too. We might ask if the Spaniards would like to choose from merit and capacity the senior positions of the Administration, Spanish Broadcasting, Post Offices or the CIS itself. The CIS might ask whether to change the Electoral Law, to see what most Spaniards think. The CIS could also ask the Spaniards if they want the parties to agree on state issues and not always be in the hands of the nationalists. We could ask the Spaniards whether they prefer that the President of the Government mourn the suicide of a terrorist or that he mourn the suicide of a civilian guard who committed suicide a few days before or that of a police officer who committed suicide the day after these statements. It is strange that of the President of the Government who, of the ten daily suicides in Spain, regrets only one and is that of a terrorist. By the way, Citizens have managed to get the Ministry of Health to start looking at the problem of suicide and not to forget also the survivors, who are those people who lose someone by suicide and who, so far, are absolutely unattended by the State. Returning to the CIS, we could also ask from the CIS what the Spanish think about the election of judges. One might wonder if they want a neo-opurian ministry to impose a postmodern way of life, based on prejudices that want to take us back to the Middle Ages. Let them ask how many Spaniards felt oppressed by the signs of traffic or that the CIS asks about the fact that those who claim to be in favor of the nationalist privilege where there is nationalism; if they believe that it is possible for a party to say on the left while historically allied with parties that insult Andalusians, extremists and inhabitants of other regions. Perhaps the Spanish should also be asked whether they are more concerned about the return to school or the Civil War; whether we should focus - this is another possible question - on trying to manage as best as possible 140 billion euros coming from Europe or we can be looking at whether a whistle breaks the rules of purity. Posts to ask, since we have the questions, I would ask Mr. Iglesias what he meant the other day in an interview with which he would like to see more Catalan and Basque surnames in the Spanish entrepreneurship. If we take into account that the most common Catalan surnames are García, Martínez and López, and the Basques García, Fernández and González is striking the little knowledge that Mr. Iglesias demonstrates about Catalans and Basques, that is why he has this mental cocoa about these regions. The next step will be that We can not only control the CIS questions, but also the answers and what each Spanish thinks, to get into the lives of others. I'm done. They already handle the CIS and now they want to dictate the questions to it; for look, in Citizens they will always have an obstacle to their project of parasitization of the institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u122	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it is becoming customary that the interventions that some parties make from the atril, by chance I understand, end up becoming a sort of advertising announcement of the party that intervenes, by the folders that they put. I pray, please, that in order not to turn the atril into precisely that, into a kind of advertising advertisement, be careful when it comes to doing so. Thank you very much. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] We continue with the Plural Parliamentary Group. Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. That the CIS should stop asking about the monarchy I believe is the least of the many acts of anti-democratic protection of an anachronistic, obsolete and also anti-democratic institution, as well as corrupt. By the way, the last one today, when the Bureau of this House decides to delete an amendment from the BNG because it called for a referendum between monarchy or republic, claiming that it is not the competence of the Government despite the fact that article 92.2 of the Constitution clearly states that the initiative in a referendum is the President of the Government. It said anti-democratic because in a truly democratic system the Head of State must be elected by all citizens, and it is not the case of the Spanish monarchy, a vital, hereditary and restored institution by a dictator, Francisco Franco; an institution that was never voted for because it cannot be considered as such to camouflage it in the Law of Political Reform - as Adolfo Suárez confessed in his day, recognizing that if they made a referendum the monarchy would be defeated - or in the Spanish Constitution itself. It is right that I ask the CIS, we will vote in favour, but what really needs to be done is to ask citizens formally and in a binding manner. That United Nations initiative is therefore very short. We can, therefore, have tabled that amendment, which I asked for was a ruling by this House on this. [[The lady]] I'm done. I believe that all political forces are aware that, after the enormous discredit of corrupt bourbons, the monarchy has the days counted. Surely what worries those who continue to defend it most is that they know that from there there will be a step, not the republic, but the democratic and sovereign republics of our respective peoples, in our case in Galicia. That's democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u124	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Errejón Galván has the floor for the same Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u125	Thank you, Madam President. We agree with the non-legislative proposal. Before, the Lord of Citizens made a list of questions of things that occurred to him that the CIS could ask; if this was something I was already asking, this was not a sociological engineering exercise, it was something I was already asking. He asked about the monarchy's average grade, which was 6.9 in 1998, was down to 5.2 in 2006 and when he goes down for the second time and gives a 4.3 in 2015, he stops asking. Why could that have been? Why could it be? Why is it suddenly decided to suspend a series? Has it happened with more things? Have you been through more institutions? No, and it's not a sociological engineering exercise, it's that when you suspend you stop asking. I think this is not the eternal discussion republic or monarchy, it is the discussion about whether the Spaniards can be treated as elderly or not, whether they can know their opinion on the issues and whether they can know what is done on their behalf. I'm afraid the CIS won't be able to ask about this, so I do: Was the escape of King Emeritus to a dictatorship agreed from the government? Are we paying with public money? How much does it cost us? I'm a Republican, but are you, as monarchs, not interested in these things? The monarchy is also mine because I pay it, but to you, who also feel it as yours, do you not care to know? Or do you really believe that they defend it when they prevent people from asking and when they prevent us from doing our parliamentary work? It is not a question of monarchy or republic, there are those who are Republicans and there are those who are monarchy, it is a question of accountability and transparency in the Spanish political system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u126	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Borràs Castanyer.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u127	Thank you, Madam President. To consult citizens in a state that defines itself as a perfect democracy - in the words of Minister Marlaska last week in his non-answer to my question about how much the maintenance of the escaped Emeritus King costs - should never be strange. The strange thing is not to ask your opinion, strange and also suspicious. CIS is a public body that should report on the state of opinion of society. They ask about the government, so why not ask about the head of state? Or is it a monarchy so singular that, in addition to being imposed by a dictator and inviolable, it is also unquestionable? It seems so, and this non-legislative proposal reflects it by explaining the bad notes obtained in the consultation and its final disappearance from the surveys. That's how perfect his democracy is. We should agree that in a perfect democracy the head of State would not be legally inviolable. The justice of a perfect democracy would not bring out the justice of other European states. In a perfect democracy the parties could not happily skip the constitutional obligation to renew the posts of the General Council of the Judiciary, as you have been doing for more than twenty months. The existence of a patriotic police force in a perfect democracy would be inconceivable. The Constitutional Court would not have been able to amend a statute approved by law and also endorsed at the polls. In a perfect democracy the Head of State would win in the ballot box and would not be transferred from parents to children in such a retrograde inheritance that it gives preference to the male over the woman. But with his obsession to protect the Crown they are doing him a weak favor, because a debate that should be between monarchy or republic they are turning him into a debate between transparency or opacity, between freedom or repression, between legality or impunity, between democracy or authoritarianism. To begin to look like a perfect democracy you should admit that the Crown is not. And since your Government does not allow consultations and mine does, I will share with you the data of the CEO of the Generalitat. In Catalonia its monarchy gets an average rating of 1.59 over 10. It suspends according to 78.2% of the population in July 2020, before the last episodes of the series. I will tell you in another way - and with this I finish - your voters in Catalonia, including those of PSOE and those of Citizens, suspend your monarchy, suspend it. That is why it is in your hands here today to decide whether you will represent them with your vote. If they are so convinced that their monarchy is so exemplary, what fear are they of citizens being able to express their opinion? But, gentlemen of Podemos, you are in the government. They are government and should be able to go beyond a GNP or beyond the annulment of something that has already been annulled and that can be left in mere gesticulation. I'm done. Next Thursday President Torra is summoned to the Supreme Court by a banner that reads: Freedom political prisoners and return from exiles. By defending freedom of expression, he can be disqualified and removed from office, something that, if it happens, would be a major democratic scandal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u128	Mrs. Borràs, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u129	Consult the most basic principles of democracy, European legality. They find that, far from being perfect, if a politicized justice can change the will that arose in the ballot box, Spain suspends in democracy, like its monarchy, the CIS tells it or not.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Nova. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. With her coming. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr. Asens, I appreciate your tone. We do not agree at all with this non-legislative proposal, but I thank you for the tone. The UN political group is asking us to urge the government to transfer CIS officials to question again about the assessment of the Royal House and its members. In these cold times in Spain, is this the initiative that can improve things in our country? That is one of the first questions that come to our mind, ladies and gentlemen, and also another that comes from the initiative's own smallpox: why does We urge the Government if We Can be the Government? It reminds me of what Socialist President Felipe González said a few weeks ago that the Socialist Party-Podemos coalition looks like the Marx brothers' cabin; it is not far away. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, what is unequivocal is that the PSOE-Podemos coalition is leading Spain adrift. We do not have a Government; we have a disappeared and uncoordinated Government. There is a tremendous lack of coordination between ministries and within the Executive they do not understand and sometimes they do not speak. The last example - your honors know it well - is that of Bankia; we also have the example of minimum income and perhaps the CIS is another issue also forbidden to Podemos and that is why they bring this initiative to Congress. I do not know, but what I can assure you, Mr Asens, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, is that this non-law proposal is a smokescreen. It is clear that Unidad Podemos cannot present a minimum management image in our country from its government and then fills with smoke its voids and hides with smoke its incompetence. In this non-law proposal since the United We can re-critically criticize the constitutional monarchy. They have made this proposal for that, as the rapporteur, Mr Asens, has acknowledged. Look, they're trying to mislead the constitutional monarchy, they're trying to discredit it by going beyond all the constitutional principles, from the presumption of innocence; it doesn't matter, because its goal is to assault the heavens, to discredit our institutions, and for us, Mr. Asens, ladies and gentlemen, that's a complete mistake. It is regrettable that the Socialist Party is in this game with you and is in this coalition of discredit for Spain with you. We are regretting it every day by the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] The parliamentary monarchy, ladies and gentlemen, enjoys great popular support, there is nothing more to see than the visits of the kings throughout Spain; people love them and affection is seen. And you, Mr Asens, say that the constitutional monarchy has little democratic legitimacy. You really come here to say that? Do you know that in Catalonia, where you are from, this great territory of Spain, the Constitution was adopted by more than 90% of Catalans and that the constitutional monarchy is and resides in the Constitution? What is this little democratic legitimacy? Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary monarchy, enshrined in our Constitution, has been one of the great successes of modern history in our country, has been the great foundation for the Spanish transition, has been the catalyst of great agreements, of great pacts of coexistence. The monarchy is not a wall that defends the monarchy; the monarchy is a wall that defends democracy and has been the insurmountable defence wall of democracy. Remember your lords the night of February 23, 1981: it was the head of state, the king, who assured that night the continuity of democracy, ladies and gentlemen, it was he. [[Applauds]] And for your honors to remember, some of these pieces of conviction are resting on the heads of your honors in this House Your Majesty, King Philip VI, is the symbol of the unity and permanence of the Spanish State, the great symbol of the concord between the Spaniards. [[pointing out the marks of the shots that are on the roof of the hemicycle]] And if since the formation of the United Nations We can think that we would have progressed during those forty years in our country in the way that we have done, being a great country, in an environment of assault to the heavens, of chrispation, of anger, of continuous resentment, if they think that would have been so, they are mistaken. We have made progress, we have succeeded because we have given ourselves a great embrace of concord all the Spaniards and that is what the People's Party proposes and we must continue to do. Our Constitution, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, gives them the opportunity to make this reform, but there is a circumstance that every time we can bring about reform of these characteristics we have fewer votes. There is a circumstance that every time they raise it and run for election they lose hundreds of thousands of votes. For now explain to us well whether in Galicia the Members of Podemos can count on the fingers of one hand. Quite simply, no. Why don't you look at that instead of looking at how to confront the Spanish and the Spanish institutions? [[Rumors]] Instead of asking for CIS surveys, why don't you look at that? [[Applauds]] If you really want to do something positive for our country, vote in favour of the committee of inquiry that we have tabled from the People's Party to make sure that the management of its government in the pandemic is known. Tell us what we are bringing to our country, apart from scandals and being, being a party supposedly new, already in the courts, with defendants, ladies and gentlemen. Tell us what they're doing beyond being conditioned by Bildu. Tell us the road map so far; tell us, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos - for when the motion of censure ended they left here giving those cries of self you can - what they have been able to do in the months of government with the Socialist Party, what they have done for Spain. Present that road map and have transparency. Didn't they want to bring transparency as a new party? They support this commission of inquiry and give a lesson in transparency from the government, which now has a fantastic opportunity to do so. [[Applauds]] I'll be done right away, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u132	Yes, Mr. Rojas, you should finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u133	I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Simply present your management, that is transparency; know what the vice president, who is from Podemos, is doing, with the social management of our country, a country that is going through very difficult times; in the Ministry of Labour they are insulting our agriculture or our tourism, when a decent government has to do to help our farmers, companies in the tourism sector and workers to have more opportunities. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, I say this without acridity and in the tone that I also ask you when you speak of us. This is not La tusaka, you are no longer spokesmen of a meeting, you are in the Government of Spain, and when you go to the Government of Spain you are going to work for the Spaniards with dignity, respect for the institutions and respect for the Constitution that we gave with that great embrace all the Spaniards. We will vote no to this initiative because it is a smokescreen. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u134	Thank you, Mr. Rojas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Nova. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit to the United Nations Group that when we read this initiative, the first thing we did was turn to comparative law, to practice in other parliamentary monarchies to see if this proposal was as obvious as it was presented to us. We examine what is done in other public social research institutes, we examine what is done in other parliaments of parliamentary democracies and, after more than one hundred and fifty investigations, we find no single case of a public survey on monarchy in these consolidated democracies, either in the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, Norway or the United Kingdom. And there are reasons for this: because in these consolidated democracies, which are parliamentary monarchies, they intend to leave the head of state outside the political controversy and everyday confrontation in order to preserve its representative character because that is where its usefulness lies. It makes sense. What's the point? There are more reasons. CIS is a public body of an autonomous scientific nature and political bodies should not interfere, they should not decide which are their investigations, which are yes and which are not. They should not write their questions and answers either. This is true of established democracies, this is true of quality democracies. It makes sense. Why do CIS scientists not ask in their research on the monarchy? What happened two years ago? The CIS, on the occasion of the anniversary of the Constitution, asked about the options of Spanish citizens regarding possible constitutional reforms. Did the monarchy reform by republic appear? Yeah. Did it appear with more than 50% of the support? No, not by 40 %, not by 30 %, not by 20 %, not by 10 %. Only 1.5% of Spaniards raised this reform as an interesting reform. Let's just say it's a discrete figure. But it is that every month - every month, too - the CIS barometer asks for the most important problems in the country and for the problems that affect the Spanish personally most and, of course, unemployment, the economic crisis, the pandemic of course, education and health. Does the monarchy appear? Yeah, let's face it, he shows up every month. Last month at 32 1.5%, one of the country's most important problems. And with regard to the problems that the Spaniards personally consider to be more important, 39, 0,2 % also appears. If the CIS is an autonomous and scientific public body, it seems reasonable that its scientific directors should look among the problems that matter most to the Spaniards their research motive and not those matters that concern their lords for particular political circumstances, to mark a profile, as is now said. It seems reasonable that the CIS has its own dynamics. Mr Errejón rightly said that in the last CIS that asked for the Spanish institutions the monarchy appeared only at 4.34 %. True, only 4.34%, but Mr Errejón forgot to say that in that survey in April 2015 he was wondering about the rest of the institutions. For the monarchy, 4.34% was not well; political parties, 2.21%; trade unions, 2.61%; and Spanish Parliament, 2.83%. If we use the 4.34% argument, bad note, to question the validity of the monarchy, what do we do with the political parties? Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, what do we do with Parliament? In conclusion, it seems reasonable that we should do as in other consolidated democracies, parliamentary monarchies, and leave the head of State outside the political controversy and everyday confrontation so that they can exercise their constitutional role, their representative role and leave the CIS, which is a public, autonomous and scientific body outside political interference. And, ladies and gentlemen of the right, I will tell you something: the loyalty of the Socialist Party and its parliamentary group to the parliamentary monarchy comes directly from our loyalty to the constitutional pact that sustains our democracy, our freedoms and our rights, directly. [[Applauds]] We are going to ask you at least the same loyalty, because the greatest enemy that the parliamentary monarchy has today is those who day after day want it for themselves and in front of others. Every time you say that the monarchy is yours and not yours, you convince more Spaniards that the monarchy must be something alien to their ideology, to their political consideration, to their lives. That is why we ask you to be loyal to the constitutional covenant and not to harm the monarchy; let it represent and serve all Spaniards. By the way - I finish already - being a constitutionalist does not amount only to defending title II, but also to defending article 31. We must all contribute to public spending on the basis of our economic capacity. That's also constitutionalism. To be a constitutionalist, by the way, Mr Rojas, is also to go to 122, which establishes the right and duty of the General Courts to renew the General Council of the Judiciary. And, by the way - and with this I really finish - you read Article 126 of the Constitution. The Ministry of the Interior and the Police are to prosecute the crime and not to promote it, to cover it up and to cover it up. That is also stated in the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u136	Thank you, Mr. Simancas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Asens Llodrà, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u137	Yes, the amendment by Esquerra Republicana, of which we will present its wording in writing.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u138	All right. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u139	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress into the desire and inability of the Government to ensure a safe return to the classrooms on an equal basis throughout the Spanish territory. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Jiménez Linuesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u140	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has hit Spain hard and has not done so only in the health and economic fields, it has also, unfortunately, done so in the educational sphere, highlighting the shortcomings of our system, but, above all, leaving the Government of the nation in evidence. Moreover, the discharge of duties by the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, which had not been able to live up to the exceptional circumstances, had also been evident. It is the central government that has the competence to regulate the right to education and, just as President Sánchez assumed the sole command for the making of health decisions arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, the educational community as a whole has missed a leadership, for the time being, that would have established a protocol common to all Spanish territory to avoid what has already occurred, which is a greater inequality between the autonomous communities and, therefore, between our students, between our teachers and families. Why have no unified measures been taken throughout the national territory in education, taking into account the exceptional nature of the situation? Why has the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training delegated its responsibility to others, putting the equality of all Spaniards at risk? Why is there no common regulation for aspects such as, for example, what working parents have to do if their children become infected or have to keep quarantine? Thus what we create are parents of first or second according to the autonomous community in which they live. Coordination with the Ministry of Health should have been a constant during the pandemic, but not only with this ministry. Employment-related actions should have been regulated and coordinated, because working parents are going to be faced with situations where there has been no provision or regulation, and it has not been due to lack of time, it has been due to a lack of commitment to citizens. The consequences are not only going to be educational, they are going to be economic. Even the Government and the ministry have not been able to make decisions in the territories within their scope, such as Ceuta and Melilla. And this abandonment of functions by the ministry has led to uncertainty at the start of the school year throughout the educational community. There has been no union, association or collective that has not shown their dismay and concern about returning to the classrooms. Even their governing partners had to draw their attention to the lack of foresight and the urgency of decision-making, although it is true that, if the minister is heard in any of her interventions, it seems that all this was the invention of the People's Party, but not. The problem has been that you have kept away from the reality, from the demands, from the concerns of those today who are certainly saving the chaotic beginning of the course that you had planned. And yes, it has been thanks to the good work and involvement of thousands of teachers, of the management teams, who have borne the responsibility that they do not have on many occasions, and, above all, also to the goodwill of the families and other workers of the educational institutions. Thanks to all of them the course has been able to begin. If it had been for the work done by the Government and the Ministry of Education, schools should be closed to date. The minister has allowed each autonomous community to make its own decisions, avoiding any responsibility. We never asked or asked for a rigid standard, since each community and educational centre has specific characteristics and, above all, they have the capacity to adapt to their needs and peculiarities, but we do believe that minimums would have been necessary to avoid differences. Why has the ratio been lowered in some autonomous communities and not in others? The minister had the capacity to have set a maximum of students per classroom in each of the educational stages, but no, she preferred to find children's education classes with twenty-five students in communities such as Castilla-La Mancha, which, by the way, announced to the canteen and dish that this radio would go down to twenty students and that it has not completed. This is an example that reflects some of the inequalities produced in some autonomous communities, but unfortunately it is not the only one. In order to launch the school year, more funding was and still is needed for the autonomous communities by the central Government in order to be able to cope with all the measures required of the management teams, without providing them with the necessary material or personnel. The minister was talking about investment in education the other day, but it must be remembered that the Socialist Party was the one who rose from the educational pact because they demanded an investment of more than 5% of GDP, but it is true that today you have not raised that percentage, which is in 4.2. Furthermore, I would like to tell you that the solution is not to invest more, but the solution is to invest better. And how do you invest better? Listening to the demands of the educational community and allocating the millions in what really matters: in this case and at this time it is the security and educational, material and human resources. We in the People's Party consider it essential to act in three areas: health, education and digital. In the health field, it is essential to ensure the safety of all classrooms in the national territory supported by public funds. The educational sphere has been the most abandoned by the Government, as it has not been able to identify all the necessary measures to consolidate learnings that have been acquired with difficulty during the period of suspension of face-to-face educational activity. And finally, the digital field, through a non-existent, for the moment, comprehensive plan of modernization, transformation and digitalization of education. Therefore, from the People's Party we consider it essential that the Government set up a joint committee, in which representatives of the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, the Ministry of Universities, as well as the Ministry of Health, and representatives of all the autonomous communities will be present, and that it will report to the Congress before December on the measures taken, as well as on the analysis of the measures taken so far, as we also consider it essential that they participate in the Committee of Inquiry into the COVID-19 that we have already registered in this House. I end by regretting that some of you will now come up here to criticize the management of the People's Party in those communities in which it governs, but I must also say that it will serve you nothing because you no longer deceive anyone, because, if anything we have all realized, regardless of the autonomous community in which we find ourselves, it is the lack of management and leadership of the Government and, above all, the abandonment we felt at the beginning of the school year. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u141	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jiménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Martín Llaguno is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u142	President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal by the People's Party, which calls for a safe return to classrooms throughout the national territory, seems absolutely common sense to me, so go ahead and we will vote yes. But go ahead, too, because I find the explanations given by Minister Celaá here last week embarrassing and which continues to give through the media to the families who have left their children today in the classrooms concerned, very concerned, with a string of confinements that we are seeing today. The minister comes to tell us repeatedly that it has become phenomenal, that everything is controlled, and tells us over and over again that it has met eleven times with ministers and advisers. I would tell the minister that instead of meeting with the high-level level, she should get into some parent chat to understand the reality, because most Spaniards think that the government has washed its hands on the educational issue and that in this country education is the last thing that matters to politics. Apart from taking a picture, the truth is that the government has arrived late and badly on the way back to school. They suspended in June, they suspended in September and will not recover. To ask for a health, educational and technological plan for all children in Spain seems to me very well, and also seems to me very well the proposal made by the People's Party that the ministry should come here and that the advisors should also come to report to all Spaniards in a Commission through Congress. Having said that, I would like to take this opportunity to make a collective reflection. We are playing with the health and future of our children. Parents are very concerned, especially those who have people at risk in our environment. Six months ago I asked the minister to make a plan for the return to school, and the truth is that ever since then the answers they give us are more frustrating to me. I want to speak first as a mother and then as a teacher, who I am, and I will end up speaking as a politician. As a mother, just as a mother, what do you ask me on the way back to school? I am concerned first that my son is infected, I am outraged that if my son, instead of studying in Alicante, studied in Seville, he would go to a school where the PCR has been made to teachers. What is it, that the postal code immunizes against the virus? I'm worried that I have a good teacher, able to adapt to these circumstances, and I'm worried that my son can come back in the best conditions, because I want a safe school, but I want a happy child too. I am very distressed - God forbid - that they have to confine someone in their class and worry that they will lose because there is no plan B to follow the education, because the children have already lost a lot during the confinement and can no longer take off. As a working mother, I'm worried that the state and the administration will protect me so that, if I have to stay and take care of him, I can get a permit. I'm nothing original, I'm just as worried about all the parents and all the mothers of all the political forces. Do you know what I don't care about at all as a mother? I'm not worried about a cucumber if the minister has met eleven times or I'm not worried about what happened ten years ago and I'm not worried about the mess being thrown between one and another community according to color. No political reproach is going to take away the insecurity and fear that we have before we go back to school. As a teacher, as I am, what worries me as a teacher? What worries me as a teacher? I am not worried about any of these debates that we have had here on issues that are far from what the people of the street think. As a teacher I'm worried about getting infected, yes sir, I'm worried about getting infected. I'm worried that when I go to class, my classrooms are safe, and I'm worried about having the classrooms in the best possible conditions. I'm worried about what content I have to prioritize, if I'm going to have enough resources to be able to face the challenge that teachers have - it's not easy to move from face-to-face teaching to online teaching - and I'm worried that, in addition to teaching, I have to become a nurse, psychologist, companion and teacher, and that all responsibility falls on me because others have not done their job. And as a politician, what worries me as a politician? As a politician, I'm very worried that we're living in a bubble apart from what people are worried about on the street. I am concerned to have a minister of education who has repeatedly inhibited her skills and who puts herself on the defensive when we ask her and ask her to get to work. I am concerned that the government has taken the mantra of the discharge of responsibilities and I am extremely outraged that millions of citizens who are concerned about this Celaá has told us - and he told me in a Commission - that we are doing a very little mature reflection of the autonomous system. It's out of reality, it's inadmissible. The educational community is surviving as it can and this Government cannot respond to it with political problems and we cannot launch competition problems on them. We need solutions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u143	Mrs. Martin, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u144	That the Executive gives mature lessons to citizens at this time, who have had exemplary patience and responsibility, is an insult. I ask you to have empathy, to put the proposals of the People's Party - which are not mine, and I do not fall for rings to say that they are good - and, please, to put ourselves on the educational issue to work and to solve what is seen on the street. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Martin. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Nova. Mrs Trias Gil has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u146	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are certainly faced with a Government that has been unable to guarantee a safe return to classrooms on an equal footing throughout Spanish territory. To date, the Ministry of Education has tolerated the huge disparity in criteria between communities when establishing protocols to preserve the health of students, teachers and families. Faced with a public health problem, this is the time to assume a single command and to draft an appropriate and detailed protocol, which must be complied with throughout the Spanish territory. Both the Government and the regional executives have either rejected their responsibility or have arrived late and badly, unloading their responsibility to prepare for the safe return to the classrooms. At last week's plenary session, the Minister of Education said that the pandemic has highlighted the number of elements that need to be modernized in the education system, such as when the tide finally withdraws and leaves the wreck remains, she said, on the beach. Indeed, the tide has retreated and what remains on the beach are not just a few elements to modernize. What remains are empty and broken shells, which do not retain even the patina of beauty they usually have; empty and broken shells that show the structural deficiency of an alternatively ideologicalized educational system and lack of unity and strategy, obsolete in form and addicted in the background. [[Applauds]] What highlights the tide is the failure of the autonomous system, the dispersion of effort, work and resources, and the absolute need to regain competence in education at the national level. [[Applauds]] We have been saying this in our electoral programme and since we are in Congress; in each Commission we denounce the linguistic imposition, the lying and manipulation of history books, the imposition of gender ideology and now, more than ever, for reasons of public health. Today, and even with the enormous importance they have, we don't talk about language, history or ideology; we talk about public health, about measures that put our lives or those of our loved ones at risk. We are talking about a great responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. And what do we find? General, vague and imprecise protocols that do not solve the specific cases that affect the return to the classrooms of more than 8 million Spanish students and their families, generating great uncertainty and anxiety. What we have seen is that the machinery of an entire ministry has not been mobilized to put everything at the service of obtaining professional solutions and according to the times we live. And the only thing the minister tells us is that we are calm, as if it were a logical consequence that her Government is processing a new law; as if the Lomloe were going to fix something of the emergency situation that we live in. Lomloe is a legislative setback, a journey to its old laws of the past that have already destroyed the Spanish educational system. That yes, removed now by the ideological tide of the gender perspective of cross-sectional dyes that is growing in the world and how not!? in Europe and which your government wants to flag to see if it gets some recognition from the European partners, because in all the others it has failed. The motion under discussion proposes the creation of a Joint Commission on Health, Education and Universities, in collaboration with the representatives of the Autonomous Communities. From our parliamentary group, after the experience in the Committee on Reconstruction, we believe that, unfortunately, in this House, creating committees perpetuates and disguises the problems, without solving them at the pace that society requires. However, if it is to be created, we believe that it should also include the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration to give concrete solutions to the parents of quarantined children, who are more and more every day. This and the detailed measures of compulsory compliance for the different educational administrations is what we are bringing today to the motion that we will vote in favour. On the other hand, the Spanish should know that the Government was not working to eradicate inequality in education, but why no concrete measures had been taken to improve access to the Internet in rural areas? Why, as the minister herself has said, are there no stocks of devices until December to properly implement online education? Have you not had time since March to secure that stock which is intended precisely for the most vulnerable population? His work has been insufficient and inefficient. Instead of pooling efforts, creativity and willingness to provide solutions to the learning problem in this exceptional circumstance, they continued with this harmful educational law. The Lomlou, at least, should do a long quarantine...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u147	Mrs. Trias, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u148	...until we return to everyday life as it was before the pandemic. As long as this cannot be done, take care of the urgent needs of Spanish students and their families in an efficient manner. Recognize the social wealth of the family and provide it with resources to contribute to its active participation in ensuring the right to education guaranteed by the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Trias. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. If anything has been confirmed throughout the tragic pandemic that has already taken more than 50,000 lives and placed Spain in the worst European and global parameters relating to the incidence of COVID-19 are two things. The first is that the Government has always been late in making transcendental decisions in the face of an unprecedented situation. The second is that the Executive has evaded responsibilities and accused some autonomous communities of not acting properly. Today, the ensuing motion for an inquiry into aspects relating to education in times of pandemic, which has been defended by Mrs Jiménez Linuesa, affects precisely these two characteristics: the late Government which does not resolve; the cowardly Government which tries to escape from the inexcusable task of intervening in the solution of this very serious crisis affecting the whole educational community, where it resides. If, in the face of this situation, the Government of Pedro Sánchez is committed to parapeting in the transfers to the different territories, it will be irresponsibly renouncing the unequivocal mandate of the Constitution and also the competences it has to assume and for which this Government - in addition, mastodontic, which has been self-qualified for progress - has been endowed with two ministries, that of Education and Vocational Training, and that of Universities, with their corresponding structures. So much blue bank for nothing; disappeared also on educational issues. Before continuing and since at last week's plenary session Minister Celaá Diéguez attributed to some non-socialist autonomous communities slowness and incorrect decision-making, let me say that in Asturias, my home community, governed by the PSOE, resigned last Friday the head of Planning and Educational Infrastructures, a few days before starting the most complicated and uncertain school year in history. It has served no purpose in Asturias both for students and their families and for teachers to be the last to return to the classrooms: unfortunate management. And in the rest of Spain the same thing, the threat persists in the educational field without the Executive taking advantage of the non-educational period to think, plan and conceive solutions and protocols of action to the different contingencies that may arise, including the possibility of a new wave of contagions by coronavirus, like the one we are suffering since last August. Indeed, the incidences that have already occurred in some of the places where the 2020-2021 school year has begun have shown that the family fears and concerns of professionals were justified when they pointed out contradictions in the diversity of instructions, many doubts about their application and total scepticism about their effectiveness. This is precisely where the ministry had a role to play, but it left the dawn exactly the same as those first weeks of the year in which health security was relegated and the seriousness of the alarm remained in an absolute background. I am very afraid that, in view of what is happening in the educational world, the first ones who doubt and distrust the Ministry of Health, the allegations to Minister Illa and the frivolities of Dr Simon are the members of the Council of Ministers themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the Government's late reaction to its indolence, its lack of coordination and its indecisions, it is more than opportune to make a quadruple proposal in this motion and that, in addition to concrete measures and offering alternatives to the lack of response to the negligent passiveness of the ministry, it concludes by urging the creation of an inter-ministerial and inter-autonomous Joint Commission to inform Congress before the end of the year of progress in the implementation of measures for the resolution of this crisis of incalculable future effect in terms of education. In short, the safe return to schools and classrooms requires the adoption of exceptional health measures and, in this regard, I would like to point out explicitly the efforts made by civil society by the General Council and different nursing organizations to develop the School Nursing Strategic Plan for the Prevention of COVID-19 in educational institutions and the Guide to Recommendations for the Start of Classes in educational institutions, respectively; aspects that are fully included in the call for attention in this motion to act urgently and provide security measures against the risks of contagion. I conclude, Madam President, by pointing out that, in the face of ministerial indolence, the measures of this motion are essential as a result of questioning, to which I express my support, because Spain cannot add the educational fiasco to the health and economic fiascos resulting from the calamitous management carried out by the Government of Pedro Sánchez before the COVID-19. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Nova. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u152	Eskerrik asko, president. Indeed, a safe return to the classroom has not been ensured, but we will not support this motion because you are precisely the example of what should not be done, just ask the Madrid faculty. It has been the living example of the disaster and, therefore, we will vote no to this motion. In my country too, the return to the classroom has been a cause for concern. Today has been a day of strike and mobilization in Basque education, with demands that demand the obvious, a safe and agreed return to the classrooms. A strike that would not be taking place if the institutions, both those in Madrid and those in themselves, had taken action and decisions in the five months they had had to do so. We all knew that in September the return to the classroom was coming, but it seems that the governments did not know. We have seen how at the last hour, a week before and even just a few days before in many cases, we tried to do what had not been done in months and how the teacher was required to comply with impossible measures by carrying out the responsibility of caring for the student. They try to make us believe that it is they and they, the teachers and the teachers, who have the responsibility, when it is the rulers who have not done the duties. First, somehow, even the children were blamed, then the immigrants remember??, then young people, more recently even smokers and now teachers. It is incredible the ability of the rulers to blame social sectors for their own inability, to try to confront one another, to blame them for the failure they do not want to assume. No, just as it was not the fault of children or young people or immigrants, it is not the fault of teachers either, because once again they try to face teachers with families, the needs of one another with the needs of another, and the rulers try to wash their hands. The return to classrooms is not safe today and the responsibility lies with those who have not anticipated it, those who have not lowered ratios, those who have not provided more resources, those who have not hired in time and form more teachers and those who have not invested more resources in education, those who have not planned to return to the educational community, who are those who know and work day by day with the centres. None of this has been done and now they complain about the strike. Let it be clear that this strike is not just for them and they do it for students, for families, for society in general. They do so so that the return to classes does not pose a new risk and does not aggravate the serious situation we are going through and so that returning to the classrooms is safe for all and for all. I invite you to invest the efforts that the public officials, from the minister to the lehendakari, are putting in discrediting this strike in listening to what they are asking for and in taking the consensual measures they are asking for for the good of all. I'm done. Go from here all our appreciation to all those people who even feeling abandoned are doing everything possible and all that is in their hands so that our sons and daughters will return to the classrooms safely, so that families will also feel safe. We know that it is not easy and that they are making a huge effort for all of us and for all of us. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u154	Thank you, Madam President. With your permission, I will intervene from the seat. I begin by asking a rhetorical question to everyone, because I have just heard that the rulers are trying to wash their hands. Frankly, do not respond loudly, but answer yourself: does anyone believe that any ruler of any community, of the Ministries of Health or Education, is trying to wash his hands? Do you think you're politicians like me, this really? There will be measures that they take that will not be correct, but saying that they are trying to slip and wash their hands is an act of political irresponsibility, an act of political irresponsibility. [[Applauds]] It is an act of political irresponsibility and, moreover, it is an act of little solidarity with other people who, like us and ourselves, are throwing the rest into an absolutely atypical situation, in a situation where what reigns is uncertainty about how it is, when what they are doing is giving out and solutions continuously. First of all, Mrs Jiménez, we are not going to support the measure on a case-by-case basis, on a case-by-case basis, on a case-by-case basis. The Basque Nationalist Party claims once and a thousand times that the competences in health and education matters are of the Autonomous Communities and that, therefore, it must be left to those who belong: the Autonomous Communities. So, out of consistency, even if we are doing well, although it is easy for us, even if it is difficult for us, I can assure you that no one in Euskadi is going to wash their hands because the situation is complicated. Secondly, we are going to vote against the substance that you are proposing because these are already measures being taken. Making that speech, as if nothing was done, is very unreasonable; it is an issue that is not understood from the point of view of political responsibility. Do you think that protocols are not being made from the beginning? For protocols were made, proposals were made that later had to be adjusted because, as we all know, even if we listen deafly to what is going on or keep our eyes shut, the situation is changing. These protocols, action plans and work-related risk prevention plans have to be continuously adapted, but they existed and absolutely bold measures were taken. It has been said that no action was taken in those five months; five months less than 15 September is 15 March. When we entered this we were all bewildered and absolutely bold measures were taken. Schools were closed following the health principle, because in all this - in all places I understand, of course in Euskadi yes - health and educational urgency principles are being followed, since both criteria form a joint binomial, and all measures are continually being re-adapted. He gradually returned to classrooms in May due to educational urgency because although online education has proved necessary and we need to move forward in this digital development, we have learned and now we know that it does not replace face-to-face education. That is why steps are now being taken to continue in that direction. And the third variable for which we are going to vote against is motivation, because you want to wear down a government and at your turn where you rule there will be others who may want to wear down them. We have already seen that all the intervention here in the Congress of EH Bildu for the situation in Euskadi has been to try to wear down the government there. Well, it's as bad in one case as in the other and as in the other. Of course, in a situation like this, where the whole educational community, the whole health community and all the people who work in companies, on the street and everywhere are throwing the rest out of it, with the Basque Nationalist Party do not count. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u155	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Nothing further from my intention to defend the management of the Government in the health crisis, nor in the educational sphere, because, as we have often expressed, we believe that it was very deficient and with serious errors. However, the defachation and demagoguery of the People's Party have no limits and even surprise so little shame, as if the People's Party were not ruling anywhere and was not responsible for actions that were absolutely reprehensible for disasters, as well as not respecting the competences of the autonomous communities in the field of education. The People's Party governs, for example, in Galicia and Núñez Feijóo, despite the incomprehensible praise it often receives from the ruling Spanish left - the last of Minister Yolanda Díaz - it is doing a disastrous management of the new school year that is alarming the whole educational community and causing the rebellion of the unions and the leadership of the schools. Let me just point out that the great solution of the government of Feijoo was to set up a meter?one meter!? separation from the center of the chairs. Anyway, you guys figure it out. Good thing the mobilization forced him to rectify, but still with constant hesitations and irresponsibilitys, like saying that each center decides what to do. Then we ask what that Government is for. That's washing your hands. I'm done. As the IGC, the majority union in the sector, denounces, the government of the PP of Feijóo aims to solve the health crisis in education at zero cost without increasing the teaching staff and without really protecting the safety and health of the educational community: an absolute irresponsibility. So, gentlemen of the PP, once again, less preaching and more giving wheat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u157	Thank you, Mr. Rego. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u158	Thank you very much, President. There are sick obsessions that do not cure doctors such as, for example, that centralist obsession that some parties have - those who have made the proposal and the two who have amended it - for centralizing education. I tell you one thing: competitive decentralization is also constitutional. I quote a Spanish saying, as you like: tips I sell that I don't have. Probably, in Madrid, in the words of the spokesman for the People's Party, they have missed a leadership for the course to begin much better than it has begun, because I think there are still many teachers to hire. On the other hand, things have been done well in the Valencian Autonomous Community. We have done all the things that the People's Party puts forward in its motion: we have protocols done and in time; we have made an educational reinforcement plan; we have hired 4000 teachers and 3000 assistant food monitors; we have distributed 30,000 tablets to the students; we have increased the scholarships. So there are autonomous communities that are examples and others that would probably have to look at it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u159	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u160	Thank you, President. Good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Jiménez, I assure you that we will not support this motion. Although I imagine you won't be surprised, I'm telling you, we're not going to support you. And we will not support it, above all, because it gives us the feeling that you have read some article of the Constitution but have not read, for example, the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, even the one that remained after your recourse to the Constitutional Court and what was brushed up by the Socialist Party. You haven't even read that document. I recommend that you go only to one article, 131, of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, of the current one, and you will notice that in your proposals they systematically violate or propose to us that we systematically skip the competition division that concerns the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, in this case the Generalitat of Catalonia. Look at your proposal one, that of giving a health perspective to this action plan, you violate subparagraph (h) of that article. In point two, where you propose an educational perspective, you violate points (b), (d) and (g) of Article 131. To top it off, in case it is not enough, in your last point on digital transformation you propose that we skip article 131 (e) of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. To propose this to us in order to make noise, to wear down governments, is not a bad idea, surely it works for them, but I recommend two things: firstly, that the statute be read and that we re-submit your updated proposal adapted to the legislative reality of this country, and secondly, that it be sent to Mrs Ayuso, because there is also some idea that can serve her as you are not now in order to teach the autonomous governments how to manage this crisis. Therefore, as I have made progress, we are going to vote against this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u162	Thank you, President. If you'll excuse me, I'll also speak from the seat. Obviously, we, the Republican Group, do not share the centralist view of educational policies. In fact, we assumed our responsibilities from the Generalitat de Catalunya with the start of the school year and we hoped that you would do the same from the autonomous communities in which you govern. In any case, what is surprising is that they do not include in their motion something that is the responsibility of the Spanish Government, such as the employment coverage of those who have children who have given positive or who have been in positive contact and who therefore have to do quarantine and cannot go to school. With regard to this, we have already told you during the state of alarm that action should be taken, that work coverage should be given to those who had to take care of their children when they were at home, but we still do not have an answer. We have been warning them over the last few months, but it is precisely this last month that I would dare to say that almost all my colleagues have commented to them in some Commission or in some plenary session that there was a need for a lay-off or a paid leave, and we still have no response from the Government. In fact, what comes to us is that this is going to fall as a government policy. Therefore, once again, what I do here in this House is to demand that they reach an agreement, that they really be representatives of the working classes, and that they therefore make a concrete proposal to us that guarantees a job leave or a paid leave for those who have to take care of their children and therefore cannot go to work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u163	Thank you very much, Mrs Rosique. Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u164	Thank you, President. The People's Group brings us a motion to ensure a safe return to the classroom, and the first thing I have thought is that perhaps you will be a little late, given that the school year has already begun - and political as well - in several communities. In fact, on 11 June, the Ministry of Education already submitted a document of recommendations to initiate the course in a face-to-face and secure manner with the agreement of the Autonomous Communities. And there, at that moment, which was the time of the end of the course, we did not hear the People's Party making many proposals or many ideas, because you were certainly in other things. I say this because I have reviewed the proposals that you put forward during the final weeks of the course and there is no initiative on education and yes several questions about the return of bullfights. And so we continue, I think you are more concerned about the return of bulls than about the return of pupils to classes. [[Applauds]] Moreover, his motion is a toast to the sun that we cannot support, not only because of his lack of concreteness, but mainly because of his lack of modesty. Today you demand more resources for education, and it is true that more resources are needed. However, the lack of resources and educational underinvestment do not come from today, come from yesterday and come also from many years in which you managed. Do you know what the former Minister of Education, Wert, was saying when it was the education community that asked for more resources to strengthen public education? I'm going to read it to you, because it's typical of a poet: 'Thinking that the success of the educational system depends on resources is wrong, it's like thinking that the beauty of a house lies in the amount of cement it has'. Those words of the former minister and almost poet, José Ignacio Wert, well synthesize the vision of the right and the People's Party of Education. For you, education is an individual problem and you see it as a problem that affects every family, and not as a collective responsibility that the administrations have and that society has. That is why their educational model has always been to cut public education, extend the model of concerts, precarious teaching staff and restrict as far as possible access to scholarships. You know why? Because in that save who can, in the end always save those who have the most resources, those who have the most money. The other day, my colleague, Congresswoman Martina Velarde, said that you have a very full backpack and a somewhat short memory. In particular, you carry a 7 billion-dollar bag of cuts that have left much to the public school and, as a result, much worse prepared to deal with the situation of this pandemic. Last week, in fact, we knew the report entitled OECD Educational Overview, which with data for 2017 - i.e. the year you were in government - puts our country back on the line of educational investment. And not only that, he also points out that we have much higher ratios than the OECD average and that we have low-paid teachers. In fact, if we take the historical series, in the last fourteen years the average salary of teachers in the OECD area has risen by 7.5% and in our country it has contracted by 3%. This is their educational heritage, and this is not the problem of coronavirus or yesterday, this is the problem of a series of ideas, cuts and privatizations that the People's Party has made in education. But if the pandemic has shown anything, even for the more neoliberal minds, it is that only strong public services can guarantee social cohesion and give certainty and security to social majorities. Today everyone knows that if a child has a room of his or her own with good Internet connection, has books at home, has parents with higher education, that child has up to five times more chances of educational success than a child who does not have all of this. That is why public education is so essential, because it corrects starting inequalities and redistributes opportunities. I know that all this must sound Chinese to you and you have come up here to take the picture of the People's Party very worried about the start of the course. But you have already taken the photo, it is the photo of the teachers' queues in the Community of Madrid to make the PCRs; a photo that reflects the improvisation and tremendous contempt that you have for the education where you manage. [[shows a photograph]] We could talk about the Community of Madrid, by the way, which is the least expensive community dedicated per student and which, since 2009, has increased by 30% the investment to the subsidized private school, that is to say to the concerted school. Or we could also talk about the Region of Murcia, where the People's and Citizens' Party governs - because this also goes with Citizens - because it is the only community in which instead of hiring more teachers, they have fired children and reduced the school week. Therefore, it is not that you have no competence, it is that you are incompetent managers. You should be explaining right now where the $2 billion that the Spanish Government has made available to the Autonomous Communities for you to hire teachers and lower ratios per classroom, which you are not doing. I would therefore recommend, Your Honor, that you no longer come to this House with useless motions. They apologize to the educational community for the years of destruction, assume their responsibilities in the educational communities where they govern and listen to the educational community before presenting hypocritical and empty proposals. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u165	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u166	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Jiménez, I have really tried to make an effort to find something useful, rescueable and to really contribute something to the starting situation of the course, but it has proved absolutely impossible for us. You have come, once again, to use education against this government and, by the way, the rest of the right, for what you have done has been to reinforce that unacceptable image that you have been making throughout this summer, generating fear, chaos and uncertainty in families and I believe that it does no favour to the education system. It seems to be a lie that you are ruling in five autonomous communities and it seems a lie that you are in charge of more than 46% of Spanish students, and that is the reality. They forget that they are the competences of their autonomous communities, which are responsible for ensuring that these pupils are safe and secure, but today they are blaming the Government for not working to ensure that the pupils return safely and securely to the educational institutions. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is shameful, because what we all want is for our children, our girls and our adolescents to be in the best security and guarantee situations in schools and to be able to address, once and for all, face-to-face education, which you apparently do not want. When listening to some of your speeches, it seems that you do not want the children to go back to the classroom and that is what you were doing at the end of the process of descalation, which you have also commented on and put in your explanatory statement. They should be reminded that all the autonomous communities at the end returned to the classroom, except the Community of Andalusia, which refused and were continually accusing of the danger that existed in the educational centres of Andalusia. [[Applauds]] I think it's time they cleared up. Is it necessary for children to go back to school or not? And, if it is, they take responsibility wherever they rule because I think what they're doing is selling advice, but then they don't apply it. They give advice to others, but wherever they have to rule, they don't. They also tell us about the digital divide. Are you talking about the digital divide, which governs the Autonomous Community of Madrid, in which there is greater school segregation? Do I tell you anything about what you did during the pandemic to help those children who were in school segregation, without any kind of computer resource? They increased the rate by 1.53%, in the Community of Andalusia by 3% and in the Region of Murcia by 5%. I will tell you where the digital resources were in the community, for example in La Rioja, increasing the resources by 68% to those students who really needed it, or in Extremadura by 58%, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] That's what it's like to bet on digitization. But, of course, with you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, digitisation is neither expected nor expected. They also tell us about educational reinforcement, the need to regain knowledge. And where have you been these past few months? Have you not learned that there is an educational program called PROA+ that has been endowed with 40 million euros and that is being implemented in educational centers, also of their autonomous communities? Well, that's state resources. They also tell us about the need to agree on greater safety, health and hygiene prevention measures in educational establishments. Have you also not learned that there is an agreed guide between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health approved as early as June, and that it has been updated in the light of the new problems we have encountered in a pandemic? Or have they not heard that there is a pandemic in this country and that health and prevention issues in educational institutions need to be updated, Your Honor? But where have you been? Truly, I am surprised by the ignorance or lack of documentation with which we have come to present this motion today because it brings absolutely nothing. [[Applauds]] Then they manipulate the Constitution, they appeal to the Constitution, but that is, only those articles that you are interested in because, of course, the People's Party has recently become accustomed to some articles yes and others not. By the way, what about those articles of the Constitution that talk about the renewal of constitutional bodies where they remain? Or are they not also obliged to do so? And already, to end, they have the shame and cynicism of demanding greater resources from the State. You, those of the People's Party tijeretazo government who left 23 000 teachers out of the education system, who cut €9 billion from public funding for education. You, who have the face to come to accuse autonomous communities like Castile-La Mancha that the ratio is not being met. You, the Cospedals, those who left the ratios increased to 200 %, those who closed the teachers' centres, those who left the education system unfunded? [[Applauds]] We're the ones who reopened centers that you shut down. So, ladies and gentlemen, a little more responsibility and bring useful motions that bring something into the education system. And, man, I think at this point, at least they talk about reality, coherently, and don't come to us with data and lies, which is what they've been using. They have even come to use Ceuta and Melilla, Ceuta and Melilla, when in Ceuta and Melilla the percentage of teachers hired to solve this situation has also increased.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u167	Mrs. Martinez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u168	Use the funds of the COVID-19, use the resources to improve the educational situation where you govern because it is you who have called strikes in Madrid and Andalusia for your incompetence, for your lack of foresight and for not betting on the educational system, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] This is the reality, this is the data, so bring something more and less demagogy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Jiménez Linuesa, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u170	Yes, Madam President, we accept the amendments tabled by the VOX and Citizens Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u171	Thank you very much. We'll vote in three minutes. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have already cast the vote through the telematics procedure cannot do so again from their seats. Thank you very much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. We vote first of all to take into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group amending Law 20/2011 of 21 July of the Civil Registry. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 135 votes to 213, with 348 votes in favour 112 and 167, 279; 22 votes against 44, 66; abstentions 1 and 2, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u173	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ORGANIZATION FOR AMENDMENT OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 6/2002 OF 27 JUNE, OF POLITICAL PARTICULAR PARTIES. [[File number 122/000016]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u174	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the Parliamentary Group VOX, an organic amendment to the Organic Law 6/2002 of 27 June of the Political Parties. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 135 votes in favour, 213 votes in favour, 348 votes in favour, 20 with 32 votes in favour, 52 votes against, 78 with 118 votes in favour, 196 abstentions, 37 with 63 votes in favour, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-15-CD200915.u175	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good night, everyone. It was nine and ten minutes of the night.
