ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, the same day we discussed the Bildu budgets announced your support and you paid for it by approaching the murderers of my comrades Jiménez-Becerril. Alberto was shot in the back when he was coming home with his wife, Ascen. She started screaming and she was also killed. They were 37 years old and orphaned three children of four, six and eight years old. His aunt Teresa had to look after them, who is here and deserves you to look her in the eye and give her an explanation. [[points to MP Jiménez-Becerril Barrios]] The terrorists toasted that night with cider to celebrate their crimes. They never repented and never asked for forgiveness, like Bildu. They even have Baptist politicians who were the ones who gave data to then mark the victims, as happened in the case of Miguel Ángel Blanco. ETA killed 850 innocent people - imagine, more than two hemicycles like this one full -; among them, 27 were politicians of the People's Party, 12 of the PSOE. That is why there are socialists who are nauseous to hear that for you this is a great step for democracy and that Bildu is going to lead the state and bring down the regime - and then say that they are responsible -. The mother of her partner Pagazaurtundua has already said that you will do things that will freeze our blood. And why do you do it, Mr. Sanchez? Can you imagine Biden making a deal with the 11-S terrorists or Macron with the Bataclan terrorists? You've done it with Hipercor and Vich's, and you don't even need your votes. It's terrible. His partner Otegi, the kidnapper of Javier Rupérez and Gabriel Cisneros, said that ETA had the right to cause pain, and his vice president Churches had political explanations, but you said you would never deal with them. He's lied to everyone, so have the victims. Bildu made him president, gave him the government of Navarre and now gives him the budgets. Those pacts are going to haunt him all his life. Tell us if you've given up anything else to approve. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Casado, the old book of the People's Party when it's in opposition: ETA, Catalonia, we break Spain and we go against Spanish in Catalonia. This is what happens whenever you are in opposition. But do you know what the problem is, Your Honor? The problem is that 198 seats in this House have considered it opportune that we have to process the necessary budgets in our country. [[Applauds]] The necessary and indispensable budgets, Mr Casado, for the ten million pensioners, who are going to see their pension revalued; for the students, who are going to see the number of scholarships in our country increase in a historical way in the last forty years; for housing policies, for policies to combat social exclusion, such as minimum living income; for so many things, even for the modernization and recovery of our country by channelling and vehicularising the European Union's recovery funds, which you so much defend. But this doesn't matter to you, Your Honor. You practice the policy of trumpism; yes, the policy of trumpism. [[Protests]] First, polarization to try to blow up all the bridges and that there is no dialogue and the necessary unity that our country needs. [[Protests]] Secondly, what you do too is lie, fake news, misinformation, lie without blush on all fronts, ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Thirdly, Mr. Married, like Trump in the United States, you do not recognize electoral defeat. They have made this Government illegitimate and are also trying to disqualify and delegitimize budgets that are necessary and indispensable for this country. You, Mr. Married, along with the far right, follow the technique of trumpism at once, and you will have your very end: failure and electoral defeat. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u5	Mr. White Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u6	You just defined yourself, Mr. Sanchez. It was infamous what we heard in front of Alberto Jiménez-Becerril's sister, infamous. [[Applauds]] But you didn't just give in to Bildu. It has also yielded to the independenceists, vetoing Spanish as the language to be used in Spain, and yielding to the radicals, in order to attack educational freedom against the concerted education that chooses 25% of families and against special education, which parents with children with disabilities need so much. Explain to Mrs Sandra Moneo and Mr Juanjo Matarí why you have truncated the future of your daughters. It's not all right, Mr. Sánchez, remember José Mari Múgica when he said he preferred to lose votes to lose his soul. With whom we can't sleep the quiet Spaniards is with you. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u7	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u8	Mr Casado, the government that defeated ETA was a socialist government. The government that qualified ETA as a Basque liberation movement was a government of the People's Party. [[Applause.- Several ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress make negative signs]] The Government that cut dependency, health and education was a Government of the People's Party. And the Government that is going to increase education, health and dependence in this country is a progressive Government, which is currently leading the country. That's the big difference. [[Applauds.-Protests]] You are installed, Mr. Married, in the lie, follow Mr. Trump's strategy at once. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Come on!]] Yes, of course I do.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u9	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u10	I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Married. The longer it takes you to recognize electoral defeat, the more defeats you will have. It's been five in a year. I'm asking for patience for the sixth. [[Applauds]] - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES YOU THINK TO APPROVE THE NEXT BUDGETS IN THE FIELD OF A SENSATE, MODERN AND GOOD AGREEMENT FOR THE SPANISH FAMILIES OR WITH A RADICIAL AND FULL OF CONCESSIONS TO SEPARATISTS? [[File number 180/00363]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u11	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u12	Thank you, Madam President, Mr Sánchez, the budgets are so important this time for Spain that it is not worth making any budget at any price. I ask you: How do you want to approve them, with a cross-cutting, sensible, moderate agreement or with a radical agreement, in exchange for separatist concessions, by the hand of Bildu and Esquerra?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u13	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u14	The truth is that moderate, moderate that you point to other parliamentary groups, Mrs. Arrimadas... In any case, I will tell you that these budgets are, as you describe in your question, sensible. They are, because I think it is sensible that we have new budgets in full economic, social and health emergency like the one we are suffering, unpublished in a hundred years of the history of humanity, Your Honor. They are sensible and also moderate budgets, because they are aligned with the Recovery Fund. We are planning a budget of EUR 27 billion to carry out all the transitions we need to make, in line with the July agreement in Brussels. And they are budget benefits for the majority of citizens in our country: ten million pensioners, who are going to see their pension revalued; also public employees, who are going to see their salary updated to the CPI; also the dependency, which has a historical increase this year; also the health, with that announcement that we are going to make ten thousand MIR places. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these are good budgets also for the whole of the citizenry and, above all, for the most vulnerable groups, such as, for example, by means of minimum living income, with a budget of EUR 3 billion to extend to 850 000 households. Therefore, Your Honor, they are sensible, they are moderate, they are beneficial to the whole of Spanish citizenship. That is why I think we are not in a time of exclusion, but of inclusion. These are progressive budgets, because progressive is the coalition, and they are country budgets. That is why we extend our hand to all the political parties in this House. And, I hope, Your Honor, we do not have cross vetoes, which, unfortunately, is what has been materialized on many occasions when we talk not only about this issue, but about many at an unprecedented time and so complex for Spanish politics and citizenship. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u15	Mrs. Arrimadas García.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u16	Mr Sánchez, we have shown that we are a serious, responsible and State-minded party. We held our shoulders when it was very difficult and we have achieved good things already: in these budgets you have not been able to raise VAT to the concerted school, to special education and taxes to many families, which is what some wanted. But these budgets still need many improvements in two ways. One, on the content. A great deal of measures are still pending for families, workers, self-employed persons and SMEs. And they have to be more realistic. I do not say that, says the International Monetary Fund, says the Bank of Spain and says it by the AIReF. And two, these budgets cannot be a currency of exchange for separatists to further weaken our country. Mr Sánchez, I told you: the time of truth has come, you have to choose. There are two ways: economic and political, because it is not only important with whom, but also what. If he deals with us, they will be more moderate in economic terms - everyone knows it - and will defend the equality of the Spaniards. If he deals with Bildu and Esquerra, they will be more radical and in exchange for more separatist concessions, such as the humiliation of shattering the Castilian from the educational law. You cannot go two ways that go in the opposite direction: if you approve the budgets with a party with a sense of state or if you approve them with two parties that want to destroy the state, one led by a sedition convict and the other led by a convict for collaborating in a kidnapping. It shouldn't be very difficult to choose. Listen to the moderate voices of the Socialist Party, listen to them. Listen to the moderate voices of your own government, listen to them. Listen even to your own words - those of you - from a couple of years ago saying: No, I will never compromise with Bildu; no, I will never leave governability in the hands of independence parties. We didn't ask you for anything you didn't promise yourself before. We know it's not very reliable, but we don't ask you anything weird. We will see one important thing, and it is whether the government imposes Churches or common sense. I'd still be in time to rectify. Here's a hand lying around. If he doesn't take it... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, politics is much more than hollow sentences or a summary of sentences made. This is not a matter of going against each other: we need each other. Here's the thing, Your Honor. And before I put it to you that we do not necessarily need cross vetoes, that I think we can all agree that after two years with a parliamentary blockade that has prevented us from having budgets we have new budgets. I think we can all agree that we need to increase the numbers in health, dependency, education, that we need to move the recovery funds that will come from Brussels over the next six years. I think they are elements on which we can all agree. And that's what I'm telling you, Your Honor. And I also say to him that, of course, we are not going to accept any cross veto and that we are going to have the hand of all the parliamentary forces. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT SPIRIT DOES YOU AFFECT THE BUDGETARY COMMITMENTS TO THE VASCO GROUP? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00362]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u20	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u21	Good morning, Mr. President. With what will do you face parliamentary budgetary commitments to the Basque Group?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u22	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Firstly, I am very grateful for the support of the PNV Parliamentary Group for the processing of these budgets, which I believe are very beneficial and indispensable for both Spain and Euskadi. Of course, the will is maximum, it is total. We regard your group as a strategic partner of this government and, therefore, I believe that we have important work ahead of us until the final processing of the budgets. And I'm holding his hand, he's holding his hand, the Minister of Finance, so that we can reach the necessary agreements, which I think are going to be very positive for both Euskadi and the whole state. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u24	Mr. Esteban Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u25	I thank you for your words, Mr. President, but the movement is proving to be moving and the truth is that, in view of the execution of some parts of some ministries, the thing leaves much to be desired. It is true that this 2021 budget is special and is different, and I think that little has been underlined. I say this because, in fact, the amending budget is very small, very limited. The transformative and really important items are in the part of resilience, and that part of resilience, with the budgetary scheme that you have set up, we are not allowed to amend it; you are going to be the ones to decide it gradually over the course of 2021. Therefore, this budget in the amending part is important, of course it is, but it is also relatively true. That is why I think it is important to stress the will of the present and of the future in relation to the fulfilment of the commitments made. Here there are very important issues, commitments that are even shaped by legislation in terms of taxes to be agreed on, such as financial transactions or those relating to the digital world. But it is also going to enter into force soon in the European Union, and that is another matter that needs to be agreed and urgent, on which there must be shown to be will, and that must be reflected as soon as possible. This is a newspaper from February 14. [[Show photo of a newspaper page]] Meeting of 13 February of Fomento with the Basque institutions where the entrance of the TAV in the Basque capitals is agreed through a management commission. Everything is remembered; the agreement even gives the ADIF approval. However, we are still waiting for you to sign it. What are you waiting for to sign it? Why when commitments are made, even publicly, then does it cost so much to push for you to end up signing and end up doing it? Is this a sign that there is indeed will? Or a protocol that you signed from Zorroza, a very important work of underground train, which the population is very concerned about. With this protocol they had to have signed an agreement last year and neither have they. That must be done. The facts are they confirm things. For us, commitments are important. We take it seriously. If you take it seriously, too...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u27	Thank you, Madam President. I am sure, Mr Esteban, that we take our commitments to your parliamentary group seriously. In fact, I think we can all agree that there is great economic and social progress in these budgets both for Spain and for Euskadi. Some figures I think illustrate that. The increase in investments in Euskadi is 8.3% compared to 2019. In particular, real investment has an increase of 9,2 %. We are talking, for example, about EUR 120 million in green transition, EUR 84 million for the financing of rail services, to which you have referred, EUR 294 million for the AVE and EUR 26 million for water quality. Finally, the European Recovery and Resilience Mechanism in Euskadi will have allocated 194 million euros for environmental policies and housing policies. In short, I believe that we have budgets to start working on a good basis, on a solid basis on these issues that concern you. If we look at the budgets, I believe that there are great social advances that we have to claim together, because they have also been issues that you have repeatedly raised in this House: to shield the pension system with an increase of 0.9 %, which will benefit half a million Basques and Basques pensioners; also the birth and care allowance, which will receive more than 160 million euros in 2021; the increase in the allocation to dependency, with 600 million euros to reach 2354 million euros in 2021, from what Euskadi will receive 4.5%, and without a doubt also paternity, maternity, scholarships, the shock plan for youth employment, the 5 million euros for gender violence. In short, what I want to say to you with this, Mr Esteban, is that we regard your group as a preferred partner, as a strategic partner in the governance of the country and also in the future processing and approval of budgets. I'm holding his hand. Let us work together on these amendments. I hope that once and for all Spain and Euskadi will have budgets... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. - QUESTION OF THE DEPUTY DESIGN GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE SEMINAR FIRST AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: HOW DOES THE FIRST BILDU DAYS IN THE DIRECTION OF THE STATE VALUE? [[File number 180/00365]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u29	Questions to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Memory of Democracy. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u30	Thank you, President. Your Honor, this is 18 November 2020 and EH Bildu has not yet condemned terrorism. While nearly 400 deadly ETA attacks remain unresolved. And on top of that, the Spaniards have to endure tributes to terrorists, more than seventy in the last six months. By the way, are you going to do something about this? On the one hand, the Government says that the investiture bloc is being strengthened, which is now a bloc of legislature and state leadership, and on the other hand, Otegi and Deputy Rodríguez, both sentenced to prison for belonging to ETA, say: We are going to Madrid to overthrow that regime definitively. Madam Vice-President, how do you appreciate EH Bildu's early days in the direction of the state? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u31	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, the leadership of the state is all the organs of the state, so I appreciate it as well as the leadership of your parliamentary group, which has voted 13 times the same as Bildu in recent months. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u33	Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u34	Madam Vice-President, you said just over a year ago: We are not going to support Bildu; for us these are red lines and the socialists are very reliable. Why was what was a red line last year an invisible line? What has changed since then? They deny the deal with Bildu. You always lie, even though you don't fool anyone anymore. He's gonna answer me with lies, so he's gonna let me answer it. [[Rumors]] What has changed is that every day you are less PSOE, as men reproach you, who even say you vomit. It is true that one Pablo Iglesias founded the Socialist Party more than a hundred years ago, but another Pablo Iglesias, the true president in the shadow of this government, will end it. Mrs. Calvo, you've been looking for a media outlet for months. As the second vice president moves his chair, you have decided to divide the Spaniards. That is why it has a democratic memory bill that no one knows about. Your honor, your memory is weak. How can you forget the Spaniards who gave their lives for democracy? How is that possible? How wise is it to stir up the remnants of eighty years ago while trampling on unworthy covenants the memory of the victims of ETA? And don't give me that it's two generations of the Socialist Party, because you were in the previous one, too. By pacting with Bildu they have destroyed the moral essence of a party that until recently was nothing in constitutionalism. Today it is evident that they are leading a project to break up Spain. Your Honor, you've sold your soul to the devil. At least have the guts to recognize him. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u35	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, I am going to admit to you the guts here today to raise a debate on the budgets that Spain needs to fight the pandemic and the crisis arising in the way you did. In more than forty years his party and mine, like the two great parties in this country electorally speaking, have agreed with all, as it is due in democracy and as it corresponds to a constitutional state. [[Applause.-Protests.-Various ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress make negative gestures]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u37	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u38	You guys every week remember here ETA who disappeared ten years ago. [[Mr Casado Blanco points to the seats of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group]] Why? Why do they constantly need to bring to Spanish politics what for Spanish politics is in a key that has solved the strength of the rule of law and democracy? I'll tell you why. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u39	Mrs. Beltrán, silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u40	I'll tell you why. The problem is not how you have raised it. It's so manic, so topical what you do, so absurd to say that to the Spaniards, that you need some accounts to get out of this crisis and the pandemic, that I'm going to get into the bottom. When you speak of the left-wing governments, of this coalition and of my party for a long time, to the word institutional legitimate power always adds phrases like these: eagerness for power, clinging to office, power whatever. They have a historical trauma, they have a democratic trauma, which is to accept that the left wins the elections and governs and governs with progressive, constitutional and democratic ideas. [[Applauds]] They haven't gotten over it in forty-one years. That's the problem. Accept that they are in the opposition and help to draw up budgets, which is what they owe, out of decency, in this country. [[Applause.-Protests.-Various ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress point to the seats in the central part of the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u41	I'm asking you to be quiet, please. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHY DO THE GOVERNMENT DISSEMINATE THE REAL PROBLEMS OF THE SPAIN? [[File number 180/00356]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u42	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u43	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, the Spanish people have very serious, very serious real problems. We had a middle class with future aspirations, with development plans, and today we have a impoverished middle class that predicts poverty, hunger, unemployment and despair. We have a youth with no future, a phrase that used to be used by the radical left and that has been forgotten today. We have shops, hotels, restaurants, cafes, bars open to closure and ruin. We have the self-sustaining suffocated while you continue to charge them higher and higher quotas. We have hundreds of thousands of employees in ERTE who don't know if they're seeing ERE tomorrow. And, of course, we have more than 50,000 dead - we don't know how many, because you don't want to count them well - because of the Wuhan virus, in addition to hundreds of thousands affected. And in the meantime, what is the government in? The Government is spying on the Spaniards who criticize it, using the Civil Guard to do so. It is in combating patriotism and in propagating globalism, using the CNI for this purpose. The government is in manipulating the CIS, in manipulating Spanish Television to its liking, in developing alliances with Bolivarian republics, in bloating the pot under African migratory pressure, attracting tens of thousands of immigrants to our shores putting their lives at risk and then, yes, housing them in four-star hotels even though we do not have the capacity to accommodate them. You are in the budgets of ruin, you are spending 100 million euros on 6000 new green official cars, you are in raising your salary as a government, in increasing by no less than 45% the number of high-ranking fingers, you are in the largest government in history, with twenty-two ministers. And, of course, they're on a deal with Bildu. They're standardizing Bildu, whitening Bildu, putting Bildu, which is like putting ETA, in the direction of the state, Madam Vice President. And as long as they agree to get the Spanish out of the classroom. That's right, they agree to an unusual budget increase for their ideological chiringuitos in the State's General Budgets, up to 32% more. Propaganda can prevent the queues of hunger from coming out on television, but it won't stop them from going there. Madam Vice-President, why is the government not dealing with the real problems of the Spanish people? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u44	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, the government has had to live, unfortunately for our country, the worst crisis because of the pandemic of our country's last recent history and in just ten long months has brought twenty rules to this House to protect the Spaniards, to fight the pandemic. And the best way to do real and realistic politics is to have brought some budgets to this House, which you have denied; budgets that go into the history of social policies and, therefore, of solidarity between Spaniards and the generation of equality and justice between Spaniards at this time, to which you have refused. Ladies and gentlemen, you have also decided to aim to overthrow the system. This is a democracy - which you too have to understand and accept, and stop exalting dictatorships - ours. You have said that, in the face of general State budgets, which are a constitutional obligation of this government - of any democratic government - you are going to make videos. With videos, instead of amendments and helping in budgets that need Spain, are we going to have ICUs running, open schools, pensions paid, salaries paid, protection in the unit? Let yourself be left with the unreality in which they walk, let them speak of a Spain in the 21st century in Europe and of a welfare state that needs to generate and redistribute equality and justice for the Spaniards. Spain, the anthem and the flag won't beat you, but they actually beat anyone. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u46	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u47	Madam Vice-President, we have tabled an amendment in its entirety because we do not want to be fully responsible for the budgets of ruin, but we are not going to introduce amendments to partiality because we do not want to be even partially responsible for the budgets of the ruin of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u48	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u49	Thank you, Madam President. If I know... You've been against everything. That is why they were so alone in a motion of censure - at the moment - to the legitimate Government of Spain. If I know... That is why I ask you to come down to reality, and the reality is these budgets. Of course you have put an amendment to these budgets as a whole, because you only insult the legitimate and legal government of Spain, because you still have to recognise the democracy of this country. If I've told you before... Thank you, because you've given me a chance to repeat it to you again. [[Applauds]] - QUESTION OF THE DEPUTY THEODOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE LORD SECOND SECOND AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: CONSIDER THE SECOND SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT THAT THE BUDGETS GENERATE CONFIDENCE? [[File number 180/00366]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u50	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Podemos, accused, convicted; doubly convicted, Mr Echenique. Mr. Iglesias, being the worst-managed government in the pandemic, do you think they deserved to raise their wages? What do you think the self-employed, those who have been taxed while closing, or those who do not receive the minimum living income, think when they have seen that the State General Budgets included a salary increase for high-ranking positions? Fortunately, they have followed the example of the People's Party and have retreated. What a blush, gentlemen, what a blush! We are going to portray ourselves in the partial amendments because the Group of the European People's Party has tabled amendments like, for example, the one that claims that EUR 18 billion should be devoted to the self-employed rather than to superfluous expenditure by ministries, and you will have to portray yourself to see if you are with or against people. Do you think budgets generate trust, Mr. Churches? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u52	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Don Teodoro. I was wondering if I considered that budgets generate confidence. I tell you that yes, I think it is very positive, among other things, because 150 % of the investment in health, 70 % in education or 80 % in research is increased, and I think you do not want to talk about the content of the budgets because you know that the budgets generate trust and are good for Spain, and that is precisely why, Your Honor, you come here today to talk about ETA. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u54	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u55	Mr. Churches, I must acknowledge my congratulations. You have done a very important job this week: you have finally taken away Pedro Sánchez's face and shown his true face, because so far many Spaniards believed that Pedro Sánchez was ruling with you because he had no choice, because he had no choice. They thought Sanchez wasn't really like you but that he had no choice but to have you in his government. With the budgets of shame, Spain has found that Sánchez is right where he wants to be, scorning the open hand of the People's Party and Pablo Casado and embracing Bildu and Podemos. [[Laughter]] Many Spaniards and many socialists, Mr. Iglesias, are deeply grateful to you for unravelling your deception. Today we know that Sánchez did not want to govern either with Citizens or with Rivera or with Arrimadas or of course with Pablo Casado or with the People's Party; in fact, Pedro Sánchez has expelled the mayor of the PSOE of Cartagena by agreeing with the PP and maintains the president of Navarre who is negotiating with Bildu. That's his real face. [[Applauds]] Sanchez wants to be what he is. That is why he wants to agree the General Council of the Judiciary with you and Bildu; that is why he imposes an educational law against the freedom of parents and without any consensus. We were not wrong when we told him and we told him that there was a Pablo Iglesias who founded the PSOE and there will be another who will definitely end that constitutional party. Citing an illustrious socialist: after the pacts with Bildu, the PSOE will not know him or the mother who gave him birth. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u56	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Teodoro, if you believe that it harms the President of the Government by saying that you prefer to agree the General Budgets of the State with the left than with the People's Party, I think you are wrong. You have come to talk about ETA and will allow me to read one thing: We appeal to those who still use violence, to renounce it as an instrument of political action and, like the rest of the political forces, to assume institutional responsibilities and defend their own political approaches from them. It is the agreements of Ajuria Enea, which you signed - People's Alliance - and signed them because you knew perfectly well what it means to make a transition. You are a political party founded by seven ministers of a dictatorship; a dictatorship that killed more Spaniards than anyone else and that did more harm to our homeland than anyone and Mr Manuel Fraga made a path to democracy, and that is a success for the Democrats and that must be welcomed. The problem is that you are making the opposite path. You are now ruling with a political force that claims the governments of the dictatorship, Your Honor; you are now saying that this government is not legitimate, Your Honor; you are saying that you do not want to agree with the government on the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary because we are in the government. You, Your Honor, are now the anti-system. I have never hidden a political desire, and it is that the Spanish right is long out of the state, but you will recognize me that my main ally for that purpose is yourself. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u58	I ask you, please, to respect the speaker on the floor. - OF THE DEVELOPED GIL LAZARO IGNACIO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHY IS THE GOVERNMENT PROPOSED TO DECIDE ON THE FREEDOM AND PLURALISM OF COMMUNICATION? [[File number 180/00358]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u59	Asks Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Why does the Government want to decide on freedom and plurality of information?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u61	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, the government does not intend to decide on this. [[A Member: Can't hear]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u63	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u64	Look, Mr. Vice President, things are what they are. That so-called misinformation commission that you have pulled out of the sleeve is nothing more than an attack on free journalism and without free journalism there is no real democracy. Of course, as a communist, those concepts of democracy and freedom disgust you, and that is why he said that the fall of the Berlin Wall was bad news. The ultimate challenge is that they will be the head of the cabinet of the President of the Government, the Secretary of State for Communication and the head of the press of his vice-presidency and of Podemos, Mr Del Olmo, who decide what is true or not and take the appropriate repressive measures. By the way, Mr. Iglesias, will you cease Mr. Del Olmo, after knowing yesterday that he was convicted by a judge, together with Mr. Echenique, for falsely accusing a person of rapist, when moreover this person could not defend himself because he had previously been murdered? I answer him: I'm sure he doesn't. Do you know why? Because for that which you claim, which is to liquidate what contemptively calls the 78's regime, you need characters from that squid. I had already added to the commitment to the Republican Left of Catalonia, to that which has its leaders in prison for acting against the constitutional order, and now add to the leadership of the State to Bildu, to the political heirs of ETA, to those who still do not condemn terrorism etarra, to those who pay tribute to the murderers when they go out of prison and to those who say they come here to sit with you to carry the regime. Well, you should know that millions of Spaniards are not going to allow you to carry out our democracy through a puny and miserable alliance like that, which is an insult to the victims and to national dignity. That is why we will continue to plant them face to face, so we will not allow you all together to replace our democracy with that communist, plurinational, confederal and banana republic that you all want together. VOX is the only resistance, we're not afraid of them and we'll continue... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Gil. Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u66	Thank you, President. Your Honor, when you entered this House I had not yet turned four. It's been many years for you and me, but when I hear you I begin to notice, in that tone you use, the NO-DO music, a grandiose tone that reminds us of other times in this country. With regard to the question, it is normal, Your Honor, for you to be disturbed by the fact that we are talking about the lie and the bubble, because that is basically your political gasoline, bringing it up to levels of unpublished defachability in our country. You have accused us of being financed by Iran, when it is accredited and you have acknowledged to be financed by the political arm of an Iranian terrorist organization. You constantly deny the public and say'more market and less state', and it turns out that the president of your party, who has not given a stick to the water, has only lived on public money and all the income you have received since 1982 has been for being a public office. You are the best political expression of the lie and the bubble. You would like to make us illegal - we, the Basque Nationalist Party, the Republican Left of Catalonia, EH Bildu, Junts and even Compromís - and you threaten here with: we will not consent, we will not tolerate. You don't have to consent or tolerate anything. This Government is the result of the ballot boxes and parliamentary majorities. [[Applauds]] And I'll tell you one thing. As long as you continue to stand in lie and hatred and continue to have the People's Party trapped in Columbus Square, I wish you social-communist government for many lusters. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA MARIA ORAMAS GONZALEZ-MORO, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN THINK TO APPROVE AN EXTRAORDINARY PLAN FOR THE RESCUE OF THE CANARY ECONOMY? [[File number 180/00355]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u67	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mrs Ana María Oramas González-Moro, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, Minister, do you have any plans to rescue the Canary Islands?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u69	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u70	Thank you, President. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have been very aware that it would have a different impact and that it would have more effect on certain parts of our country because of its structure of productive fabric. In the case of the Canary Islands it is clear that it is a very affected territory given its high dependence on tourism, which adds to the specificities of being an island and peripheral territory. That is why the measures we have been taking since March, in fact the measures we have been taking over the past two and a half years, have had the Canary Islands in mind and in the heart. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u71	Mrs. Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, today is a black day for my land, for the Canary Islands. Today we are not only opening up all the national media in this country, but we are opening up the media, television, newspapers in Germany, the United Kingdom, throughout Europe and throughout the world. At the worst time in our history, 17 thousand people - African immigrants - trapped in the Canary Islands, where we also have half of the working population unemployed or in ERTE, where at this time, this week, employment services are collapsing with the new ERTE and the new unemployment, with 62% of young people unemployed, with half of our working population unemployed and without hope. A humanitarian drama, in which yesterday the canaries went to a square where the Minister of the Interior released two hundred immigrants without where to sleep or where to eat, and the Canary population went there. We have no reception capacity - 6,000 people in hotels -; there is no work; there is no food. Are we Spain, are we Europe, or do the Canary Islands have to have an independent party and resurrect the Mpaiac so that this government will listen to you? Does the European Union not consider the Canary Islands Europe and continental territory? Do we have to go to the African Union, Mauritania, Morocco or Algeria to solve the humanitarian and social drama of the Canary Islands? [[One honourable Member: Take note!]] Canaries is a dustbin; Canaries is a volcano; Canaries is a reason for state; Canaries makes it necessary for the president of the government and the vice president, with five ministries, to meet today and make a decision. Yesterday they announced that repatriations had begun: a plane with eight Moroccans and sixteen policemen! Is that repatriating the people who are coming to Morocco? Pay heed to Acnur; pay heed to the Refugee Aid Association; pay heed to the Red Cross; pay heed to Podemos, who calls for Marlaska's resignation; pay heed to the Socialist Party, who calls for Escriva's resignation; my land deserves it. Two million canaries... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u74	Mrs Oramas, as I said a moment ago, this government has the Canary Islands in its head and in its heart. What we're trying to do... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u75	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u76	... day after day is finding solutions. Using those grandiose words and hyperbole - and you have been told again, Mrs Oramas - does not provide solutions to the citizens, who want us to work together, as we are doing with the Canary Islands Government, as we are doing with the whole third sector, as we are doing with the countries of origin, because with the migration issues there are no shortcuts, Mrs Oramas, and you know it perfectly well. There has been an exceptional situation; we have tried to respond immediately; this is a situation that must not be repeated. The Minister of the Interior I am sure he will talk about this at a time, but we do not have to lose our temper and above all we do not have to try to excite the spirits rather than seek solutions together. In the same way, from an economic point of view, all the pandemic response measures we have put in place have had the Canary Islands as one of the main beneficiaries: ICO credits, ERTEs and autonomous support. Within the General State Budgets project we have a forecast of almost 7 billion investments in the Canary Islands. Canary citizens would have 67% more investment per person than the national average. [[A Member: Lie!-Protests]] The Minister of Finance explained this in detail the other day in the debate on the amendments to the budgets. In other words, it is not a matter of talking about rescue plans or using grandiose words, Mrs Oramas, it is a matter of acting decisively day after day, as this Government is doing. And if you want to help the Canary Islands, help us move forward with the 2021 State General Budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE NECESSARY CANDAMIL KINGDOM, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DOING: DOES THE GOVERNMENT UNDERSTANDING THE DISCRIMINATIVE TREATMENT GIVEN TO GALICIA IN TERRITORIALIZED INVESTMENTS CONTAINED IN THE DRAFT LAW OF THE STATE'S GENERAL BUDGETS FOR 2021? [[File number 180/00360]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u77	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance. Question by Mr Néstor Rego Candamil, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, does the Government intend to correct the discriminatory treatment given to Galicia in the investments provided for in the 2021 budgets?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u79	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Rego, the budgets for 2021 in Galicia amount to EUR 8968 million: 7849 of the financing system, and in addition the percentage of investments, almost 7% more than was collected in the 2019 budget. Do you know what's going on, Mr. Rego? That you have said no to 832 million real investment for Galicia; you have said no to an investment of EUR 308 per inhabitant in Galicia; you have said no to the revaluation of 800 000 pensioners in Galicia; you have said no to 11,300 Galicians who would benefit from paternity leave; you have said no to 52 000 Galicians who benefit from scholarships. In short, Mr Rego, these budgets are an opportunity for Galicia and its political formation and, surprisingly, you have said no. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u81	Mr. Rego Candaimil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u82	Minister, in 2018 your party in Galicia rated Montoro's budgets for our country as a plow, a slap of the PP to all Galicians and Galicians, and we, the BNG, agree. But if this is the case, the current PSOE and Podemos government not only keep slapping but add another on the other cheek by reducing territorialized investments in our country by 104 million euros, because, although you compare them to the failed 2019 budget, to which you have to compare them is to those of 2018. The figures are as follows: the overall budget is raised by 19%, the Mitma investment is increased by 56%, but the investment in Galicia is reduced by 11%. There is a rise in territorial investment throughout the Mediterranean between 45 % and 83 % - and that seems good to us - but in Galicia it falls, and it does not serve the justification of the AVE because, in addition to the fact that it is still unfinished, we have a deficit and a historical debt in investments, especially in railway infrastructure, because for us the priority is to modernise and complete the internal network in a sustainable and efficient mode of transport. See if investments in Galicia will be limited that when you tried to defend them in the whole debate you incorporated consignments destined for Asturias, because Cudillero, as we know, is in Asturias, a community that rises by 63% and, I repeat, seems good to us. Departures for the Feve line in Galicia? It's easy: zero, even though it's in a calamitous state, and it's just an example. And it is no use arguing, as he did, that we prefer Montoro's budgets; that is pure demagogy and he knows it. We want good budgets for Galicia. By the way, if they were to be truly social, military spending would have to be reduced rather than increased; the allocation to the Royal House would be reduced; or the property tax would have to be raised from EUR 1 million rather than 10, for example. The BNG is willing to work to improve these budgets, to make them truly social and fair to Galicia. If so, do not doubt that we will support them, but for that the Government must move and change the discriminatory treatment it gives our country. Otherwise, they will have to explain it to all Galicians and Galicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u83	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe that it is you, Mr Rego, who are going to have to explain in Galicia why you are opposed to dealing with budgets that increase investment in Galicia compared to 2019 and, above all, that do so from a progressive perspective that allows no one to stay behind, live where they live in Spain, and that allow us to push the economy so that we can get out of this situation resulting from the health pandemic. How do you tell this to the Galicians? Of course you prefer Montoro's budgets! To say that this proposal for budgets is not being dealt with means that Montoro's budgets, the budgets of the right, Mr Rajoy's budgets remain in force. [[Rumors]] So, Mr Rego, if what your political formation wants or what you want to make your political formation believe is that this budget has a discriminatory treatment with Galicia because for a few years Galicia, like other territories, when you have a strategic project like high speed has to concentrate more resources, you are directly deceiving the Galicians and deceiving the Spaniards. Look, Galicia's regional budget accounts for 6.9% of the total. Do you know what your contribution to national GDP is? 5.2 percent. Do you know what the population contribution is? 5.7 percent. Galicia is therefore above the national average in terms of regionalized investment. If its longing is for investments to remain in Galicia for the AVE, that would mean that the rest of Spain would never get high speed because it is not possible to consolidate a strategic budget in one territory and continue to carry capillary to the rest of the territories. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA BELEN VÁZQUEZ BLANCO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: MEASURES TO BE TAKEN TO SOLUTION THE CRISIS OF THE IMMIGRANT IREGULAR MASSAGE The Canarians? [[File number 180/00367]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u86	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Ana Belén Vázquez Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of the People's Party of the Canary Islands and of all Spain do not have to wait for what happened yesterday on a dock in Arguineguin, with more than 2,300 immigrants crowded as cattle and 227 free on the streets, without PCR and without a security plan. Mr Marlaska, will you resign for your incompetence to resolve the Canary Islands migration crisis? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u88	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Vazquez, replying to your last reference, no, I'm not resigning. This Government, the Ministry of the Interior and all the ministries of the Government have been working for two and a half years in the area of migration, making a new migration policy, which had been discontinued for seven years. [[A Member of Parliament: Lie!]] Good proof of this is that in 2019 the entry was reduced by 50%, something of migration policy we must know and apply! This does not mean anything about the problem that we are going through, extraordinary and exceptional in the Canary Islands this year, very complex and different, also a consequence of the pandemic and the migratory pressure that, also a consequence of the pandemic, are suffering our African neighbours, with whom we have increased and implemented the work of an operational nature. We have increased joint investigation teams, more police and more Civil Guard, both in Mauritania and Senegal and the Gambia, more exchange of information with Morocco, disarticulation. We see those who arrive, but we do not see those who have prevented them from arriving and endangering their lives because of the disarticulations of the mafias. A complex job that we continue to do. With regard to what happened yesterday in the Canary Islands, I have ordered an investigation and the necessary and precise measures will be taken if any decoordination is observed. We have no problem in recognizing it because in our case it is timely and we will take the measures that are precise in that regard. I repeat, we continue and will continue to do migration policy. Next Friday I travel to Morocco for the same purposes and with the same circumstances, in order to continue, increase and implement the fight against the mafias and, where appropriate, guarantee, as appropriate, legal, regular and orderly migration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u90	Mrs. Vazquez Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u91	Minister, you already lie more than Ábalos and look how difficult it was to overcome it. The Canary Islands is experiencing its worst migration crisis in the last decade, with an increase of 1019 %, Minister. The abandoned canaries have seen how their tourist hotels become immigrant hotels. Your immigration policy, Mr. Marlaska, do you want me to tell you? You've gone from meeting six Aquarius ministers in Valencia - who just missed taking the music band - to now having to go to the Canary Islands and hide the immigrants so they wouldn't see them, so they wouldn't show you how they were overcrowded. [[Show a picture]] And on top of that, charter eight planes to distribute them throughout Spain instead of chartering those planes to take them to their countries of origin. You are an effect called in yourself, Mr. Marlaska. You are a chollo for the mafias who trade with immigrants. Look, you get here when there were 8000 in June 2018 and with you and your Aquarius 50,000. [[shows some graphs]] Look, Canarias; he's about to get over Zapatero. That's his immigration policy. Its migration policy is decoordination, ceasing the immigration officer in the Canary Islands, a SIVE stored in Lanzarote, abandoning the State Security Forces and Bodies while buying all-terrain goods for Morocco. You, who do not go to the Franco-German summit on immigration, have not left you Mr. Churches or simply have suspicions that you do not want to strengthen Europe's borders? Hot returns? Are they going to do it, yes or no? Papers for everyone, as asked by Podemos? Are you going to do it, yes or no? Minister, neither racism nor goodness, we demand a firm and strong response to the mafias. We demand an immediate and urgent response for the Canary Islands, the answer that you are no longer able to give today. Go away, Minister! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u92	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u93	Briefly, be less electoralist and be more state party. [[Rumors]] We are doing migration policy and, do you know what you did? Undo all the infrastructure. Why are we now working on infrastructure in the Canary Islands? Because you've been rid of them for seven years. Why also on the peninsula and have we achieved it in previous years? Because we've put in those infrastructures. Today the first migrants will be transferred from the port of Arguineguin to Barranco Seco and will continue. And, obviously,... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u94	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. CAROLINA TELECHEA I LOZANO, OF THE REPUBLIC PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT ACTION DOES SHE THINK TO TAKE DOES THE GOVERNMENT KEEP UP TO THE FILTRACTIONS OF PRIVATE CONVERSATIONS RECORDED BY THE FORCES AND SECURITY COVERS OF THE STATE IN SUMMER SECRETS? [[File number 180/00359]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u95	Question by Mrs Carolina Telechea and Mrs Lozano, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u96	Thank you, President. What does the Government intend to do to put an end to the leaks of private conversations recorded by the Spanish police in court cases?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u97	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Telechea. First of all, I would like to say that the State Security Forces and Bodies act at all times with absolute respect for the Constitution, the law and the procedures and, above all, as I have said to you on other occasions, for the protection of our fundamental rights and public freedoms. It is part of the DNA of the State Security Forces and Bodies. It is part of the intellectual formation - let's call it - to enter the State Security Forces and Bodies and their continuous formation. There is in no way a widespread phenomenon of actions that violate fundamental rights and freedoms, but if there were, I would once again say that we have both internal and external mechanisms, such as the judiciary, in order to determine or clarify any kind of responsibility. I remind you that Spain within the V-Dem Index of the University of Gothenburg, Sweden, ranks seventh as one of the countries where freedoms are respected, as well as in judicial independence. I say again that there is no widespread practice, but, if you tell me about the leaks, of course I consider them intolerable. I consider leaks to be intolerable both as a minister and as a judge in special services. You know why? Because they generate parallel judgments, and in that we certainly agree. You know why? Because they do not have an innocuous purpose, they try to disrupt judicial investigations by trying to generate a sense contrary to the judicial truth, which is what we have to be waiting for. I say to you that all judicial leaks are investigated and will be investigated, as we have already said on more than one occasion and this minister has said in this Chamber. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u99	Mrs. Telechea i Lozano.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u100	Thank you, President. They have long been building a surrealist narrative against independence, and an example of this is the thousand Russian soldiers who have not been seen anywhere in Catalonia. Behind all this there is a clear persecution of Catalan independence and free thinking. The dynamics to which the Spanish State has accustomed us are peculiar to the Franco regime: first, it is punished, and then, it wonders; a habitual repressive practice of the patriotic police and the judicial dome against political dissidents. The most recent example is that of Dani Gallardo, and we are glad that he is finally at liberty. Minister Marlaska, we have put more than one hundred and forty questions about the evil called Operation Volhov. What do you intend to do to clarify the facts? Do you intend to get to the bottom of the matter and bring to light the filter, which appears to be Lieutenant Colonel Baena, alias Tacitus, an expert in fabricating false evidence and manipulating police records? Who does that lieutenant obey? The anti-democratic drift of the Spanish police cannot go unpunished. What are you going to do, Minister? The leaks of private conversations that have nothing to do with what is being investigated are not only illegal, but a clear attack on the fundamental right to unforgivable personal privacy in a supposed democratic and legal state. Imagine, Minister, that tomorrow, when you get up, you see that your private conversations have been published in the family, in the family, in friends or in the workplace. What would I do? Wouldn't you ask the Minister of the Interior or even the Minister of Justice to resign? To all this, we wonder where the United We can, that with its withdrawal from the request of a commission of inquiry on Operation Volhov shows us its little will to stop the repression of the State against political dissent. What a disappointment, comrades of Podemos! Can you already look into the eyes of all those who had ever given them support? It is clear that it is a campaign of persecution against independence and, as they cannot judicially, they are making a dirty campaign to discredit us and, in turn, to influence an election result. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u101	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Telechea, I intervene briefly for the time I have left. I would like again to mention that the leaks of judicial cases concern me and the leaks of facts from those judicial cases, which have little to do with what has been investigated, concern me even more and will be investigated, but let us respect the judiciary. You have filed a complaint with the Public Prosecutor's Office and, of course, the State Security Forces and Bodies will cooperate in a decisive manner, as they always do, in clarifying the facts. I say again that we are in a rule of law, do not be afraid in that regard. I would like to reiterate once again that this Minister of the Interior is concerned about the judicial leaks that are normally involved, and more so if they are not related to the facts, they are concerned and will be clarified. [[Applauds]] - OF THE HOUSE OF CLAVELL'S HOUSE LÓPEZ, IN THE REPRESENTATION OF Mrs Macarena MONTESINOS DE MIGUEL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHAT DOES THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING UNDER ARTICLES 3 AND 27 OF THE CONSTITUTION UNDERSTANDING? [[File number 180/00369]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u103	Questions to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. First of all, a question from Mr Óscar Clavell López, from the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. What do you mean by complying with articles 3 and 27 of the Spanish Constitution?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u105	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u106	To ensure the effective application of the content in both articles, not as currently does the Lomce, still in force. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u107	Mr. Clavell López.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Celaá, you took office promising to keep and keep the Constitution. It has lasted until it has reached article 3, because you have already completely forgotten that promise you made to the King of Spain, to the Head of State. With this you have already begun to bend your consciousness and betray your honor. Mr. Casado already offered him a pact for education, and Mr. Sánchez, as always, preferred other fellow travellers; he preferred communists, radicals and also Otegi on this educational issue. For you this law is not a matter of education, it is an ideological manifesto. First, it excludes the Spanish as a vehicle language from teaching without any blush, as they did during the government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. This is already ancient because the Socialist Party of Catalans, the Socialist Party of Catalonia, already then refused the Castilian, and that is why the People's Party had to defend it in Lomce. Secondly, Madam Minister, it encloses the right of parents to choose the type of education for their children by attacking the freedom of education and of choice of centre, signing with all this, which is their very well-defined road map, the defunct record of some teaching, including the special one, Madam Minister. Mrs Celaá, you are a clear example of totalitarianism, and I will tell you why, because you deny parents a right you exercised with complete freedom by taking your daughters to a Catholic and concerted school. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] This law is born without consensus, gazing the educational community, ninging the Council of State, processing itself during the state of alarm and applying the supremacist roller, a true historical error. The European Commission has already damaged its lack of consensus and dialogue. Mrs. Celaá, for the irrefutable right to study in Spanish, for families to choose the model of education and for an education without sectarianism, we will go where we have to go and when... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u109	Thank you very much, Mr Clavell. Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Clavell, I'm going to advise you on an exercise. On the one hand, let us open the law, because you do not know if you have opened it, and on the other hand, let us open the Constitution precisely in articles 3 and 27. I will strongly recommend this, because as far as article 3 of the Constitution is concerned, what does our law say about it? It says: The educational administrations will guarantee the right of pupils and pupils to receive teaching in Spanish and in the other co-official languages in their respective territories in accordance - in accordance with - the Spanish Constitution, the statutes of autonomy and the applicable regulations. Mr Clavell, in conformity, lessons in Spanish and lessons in the co-official languages. But it says even more. It says: At the end of compulsory education all students will have full and equivalent mastery in both languages - see. But it says even more. It says: Educational administrations will take the necessary compensatory measures to achieve this objective. What's done? It is recognized in the Constitution, it is recognized in the statutes of autonomy that are a block of constitutionality and it is also observed an educational objective that is the equivalent penalty of competence or domineering in both co-official languages, in both! [[Applauds]] It also says: compensatory measures will be taken to achieve this objective, Mr Clavell. Open the Constitution by Article 3 and tell me of your three points, which one is not here? In addition, you speak of article 27, freedom of education. You haven't read the law. You haven't even read it from the beginning! Because article 1 enshrines, affirms, recognizes the full right to freedom of education, recognizes the freedom of education and the full possibility for everyone to reach full domination and the full development of their education, of their personality in accordance with the principles of coexistence and of freedom and fundamental rights. A question that we have a little in doubt because you... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u111	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MACARENA OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: DOES THE REFORM ANSWER THE TRUTHFUL NEEDS OF THE SPANISH EDUCATION SYSTEM? [[File number 180/00357]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u112	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u113	Thank you, President. I take it the question is reproduced.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u114	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u115	Mrs Olona, it is indeed necessary, very necessary. And I'm going to tell you why, because it puts equity at the center of the system. This was an absolutely essential issue. We think of equity not in exclusive terms of universal access to education, but of its successful conclusion. That's why it's necessary. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u116	Mrs. Olona Choclan.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u117	Thank you, Madam President. At this moment, Mrs Celaá, in the midst of a war, you appear as a true vulture scoundrel, pecking yourself against a bitterly suffering people. To do what? To make precisely political carrion of the misery that plagues us, to take advantage of this moment, Mrs Celaá, to impose a unique model of state school and laity and to annihilate one of the most proud signs of identity that unites us all Spanish, to our nation: Spanish as a vehicle language that is common heritage. The moment, Mrs Celaá, defines your immorality; the content, your ideological sectarianism. And of course, seeing the pride with which you address this House, I can only say that you take all the Spaniards for fools. Answer me, Mrs Celaá, because the explanatory statement makes no reference to the reasons. Why do you think that special education centres should not be more than reference centres or only for pupils in need of highly specialized care? Why do they not want to shut them down but empty them by making them unviable in their livelihood? Why do the competences of self-governments increase to distribute the places between public and private concerted schools by suppressing the need to take account of social demand? In the words of Paul Iglesias, he wants the concerted centres to remain on a mere experimental path. Why do they not encourage the culture of effort, Mrs Celaá? Why do they expect a bachelor's degree to be obtained without having approved all subjects? Why have you completely ignored, Mrs Celaá, the sectors concerned by not allowing them to be heard even in the Commission, or by listening now to the more than one and a half million signatures that have been collected against this sectarian educational reform in a week? Mrs Celaá, today I want to make a public promise on behalf of my parliamentary group. This educational reform is not going to be your legacy, because you are going to approve it - you have the necessary parliamentary majority - but VOX is going to appeal to the Constitutional Court. And I can assure you, Mrs Celaá, that our actions are effective. Today we have heard - and I am addressing the Bildu-Etarra bench - that the Supreme Court Prosecutor's Office supports VOX's request to repeat the trial against terrorist Otegi who was overturned in execution of the Strasbourg ruling. Dignity, I don't hate it! The dignity that the Socialist Party has lost by closing budgets with the ETA seal. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u118	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u119	Mrs Olona, I would ask you to please stick to the truth, to the truth of the facts and not to the speculation of opinions or to the headlines. If you have read the law - I repeat, if you have read the law - you will have noticed that not only is freedom of education guaranteed and enshrined, but also the freedom of choice of families, with comprehensive programming in which the provision of public service is carried out through public and private concerted centres. The freedom of families to choose educational centres in accordance with their religious or moral convictions is therefore guaranteed, as stated in article 27 of the Constitution. Moreover, in relation to the Spanish, as you well know, if we are guaranteeing the teaching in Spanish and in the other co-official languages in accordance with the Constitution, there is no censorship in this respect because everything that is poured there - in accordance with the Constitution, the principles and the statutes of each autonomy - is contained in that additional provision 38. He talks to me about special education centers, making a heterogeneous mix about everything and again repeating over and over again the lie of saying that we are going to close special education centers. You repeat the lie as if by the art of Fierarás you were to become a truth. And it's a lie, Your Honor, it's a lie! [[Applauds]] But I have to tell you more, you speak of the fact that the law has not been discussed. No, the law has been discussed here with all those political forces that have had an interest in education and language. However, you have self-excluded yourself from the debate. You, on the one hand, ask for a pact, and on the other hand, you try to make it impossible and you want to make it impossible. You want the whole country, with an education that can't wait... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u120	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs ISABEL POZUETA FERNÁNDEZ, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMS THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: WHAT MEASURES DO THE GOVERNMENT CONTemplATE TO ENTER THE DISLOCATIONS OF ENTERPRISES AND TO KEEP THE POSTS OF WORK? [[File number 180/00361]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u121	Question to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mrs Isabel Pozueta Fernández of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u122	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. Loxin, SiemensGamesa, Metal Supports, Incoesa, General Electric, Siban, Tubacex, do you know what these companies have in common, Minister? They have decided to close down their workplaces and move their production to other countries. Companies that have left Euskal Herria carrying a barrage of layoffs and unemployment and thousands of families on the verge of misery. They have decided to close even though they are economically viable. Why? Because they have one goal: to increase the benefits at the expense of the workers. No matter how many people leave on the street, how much damage they do to the regions, they only seek to produce cheaper in other countries, with cheaper labour, less job protection and, therefore, less costs. To the panacea of neoliberalism. If they fail to relocate they are even threatened with it: if you do not accept setbacks in working conditions, cuts in wages and more precarious work, I close and leave. This is clearly a blackmail. That is why I ask you: does the government implement any measures to prevent company relocations and maintain jobs?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u123	Minister of Industry Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u124	Thank you very much, President. The first thing I have to say to you is that the Government has shown, with the action we have taken over the past two and a half years, a commitment to industry to maintain productive capacities and employment. I say that we have demonstrated this because we have had to manage many industrial crises, we continue to effectively strengthen our instruments and, therefore, we trust that Spain will be a country where investment continues to arrive. This is what we are working on and certainly the recovery funds and that plan presented by the President in October provide a framework for strengthening the industry, so that there will indeed be opportunities around the industry and that, as he points out, the Basque Country but also the whole of the Spanish territory will benefit from these investments, which will be very good to continue strengthening a sector that is key, which has proved to be a pillar also to protect lives. I would also like to highlight from here this commitment that all industries have made to strengthen productive capacities, to be able to manufacture socio-health products and to show them my appreciation because they have undoubtedly been and will also be part of the solution to this pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u125	Mrs. Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u126	Minister, in Nafarroa a law is being worked on and processed at the proposal of Euskal Herria Bildu which provides for measures to stop relocations and protect jobs. I invite you to know and study this proposal to take it as an example from the Government and to take real and effective action to put an end to this situation. They could start, for example, by requiring the entire company which chooses to relocate its production and which has obtained public aid in its many forms during its stay in a territory, to be obliged to return the value of the aid received in the last ten years to the public coffers. This would be a starting point. Madam Minister, there are urgent policies to promote the just economy that generate wealth and redistribute it. There is a need for political will and commitment in the defence of workers. If this Government really has them, we hope to see proposals and measures in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u127	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u128	Thank you very much. As I told you, there is a commitment from this government to industry. We have reinforced within the recovery plan the direct investments and the largest investment that the industry will receive in lever five advocates for a more sustained, more inclusive and more digital industrial policy with a view to 2030. Without a doubt, we will be able to deploy numerous investments that will accompany the industry in its strengthening process throughout the Spanish territory. There is one very important element, Your Honor, that I think we should start discussing in this House that it is a pact for industry, a proposal that this Government has already incorporated as a draft legislature. This is certainly a good time for us to talk about a country project and for all of us to put industry at the centre of good policy. So I urge your ladies and gentlemen to start talking about that pact, a pact that will give stability and a pact that will succeed in strengthening productive capacities, generating employment and placing Spain at that great goal, which is to get our industry to reach 20% of GDP. We reach out to them and hope to get through the legislature that pact by industry that so much is being demanded of us by the sectors. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JOSÉ IGNACIO ECHÁNIZ SALGADO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHAT OPINION DOES IT DESERVE THAT A MAJORITY OF SPAIN CENSOR THE MANAGEMENT OF PANDEMIA? [[File number 180/00368]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u129	Question addressed to the Minister for Health. Question by Mr José Ignacio Echaniz Salgado, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Illa, what is your opinion that a large majority of Spaniards have censored the management of the government in the pandemic?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u131	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, our country, like all of Europe, is immersed in a second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, a situation that has stabilized and started to improve very slowly in recent days, but which remains very worrying and therefore obliges us to continue to maintain very strict measures. Your Honor, I manage and make decisions by looking at the daily data provided by the Centre for the Coordination of Alerts and Health Emergencies, and not by looking at surveys of any kind.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u133	Mr. Echaniz Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u134	Minister, Kant and Nietzsche are not helping you very much to fight the virus. It will turn out that having a philosopher minister at the head of the epidemic was not a good idea. You could humbly have resigned at the beginning of the infection or you could have been helped by the People's Party, but you have shown an absolutely haughty attitude and have only opposed my party. You were only right when you rectified, but how many lives could have been saved?How many contagions could have been avoided if you had listened from the beginning to the People's Party? We asked you to demand PCR at airports, and you five months later rectified and gave us the reason. We asked him to lower VAT on masks, and he rectified and gave us reason. We were told that it was not good to confine to basic health areas or to close just the bridges, and today we are being praised by all the countries of the European Union and you are right. Now they have refused to test antigens in pharmacies, how long will it take to rectify and give us reason, Minister? Yesterday they also rejected our plan B not to be six months in an alarm state, how long will it take to give us reason? Minister, the one who corrects is wise; the one who recedes every day is an inept. Spain needs a government that will lead and face responsibilities. Spain needs a captain to fight this war against the virus, but we have one hidden behind the autonomous communities that has been unable to react for nine months. The casualties that they hide and for which they are responsible are counted by tens of thousands. If you're not ready, let us take the lead and let us face this war on the virus. Minister, you can't go on for another minute at the head of the ministry. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u135	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. We have a state strategy to deal with this second wave of coronavirus that has three pillars: a first pillar of common indicators for the whole of Spain, on the basis of which the autonomous communities have to assess the risk of the epidemic in their respective territory; a second pillar consisting of a set of actions agreed with the autonomous communities that have to be implemented on the basis of the risk assessment that has been made; and a third pillar consisting of evaluating the outcome of these measures rigorously, and therefore after a period of two or three weeks. We are all working together in this effort to combat the second wave. I would like your political formation, and in particular you, to join in these efforts to combat it. I still see after quite a few months of pandemic that his main effort is to point out the mistake, to show who is guilty and not to fight the virus. I ask you once again to join in this effort to combat the virus together in this second wave, which is also being very harsh for our country. And I have to tell you one thing, more on a personal level. I started the week very well, opening a hospital that you know well, the University Hospital of Toledo. Don't give me a lot of lessons about what needs to be done, because you tried to get this hospital cut short, and you know it, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u137	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group Citizens to the Minister of Labour and Social Economy on the measures the Government intends to take to guarantee the right to work and family reconciliation, especially in the face of the exceptional difficulties caused by the health emergency of COVID-19. Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor for her defence. [[Pause]] Mr Bal, is anyone from your parliamentary group going to present the inquiry?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u138	As far as I know, Sara Giménez is coming now, right there. I don't know what happened to him, what a shame he must have had in the transfer. If you can wait a second, it comes right away; otherwise, we are not in a position to defend it. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u139	Mr. Bal, I'm so sorry, but the interpellation is falling apart. - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government in the field of freedom of expression in Spain. [[File number 172/000063]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u140	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the measures to be taken by the Government in the field of freedom of expression in Spain. For your defence, Mr. Marshal Zabala has the floor. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u141	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u142	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u143	Today, the VOX Parliamentary Group calls on the Government for its claim to limit the freedom of expression of Spaniards on social networks, and also for its intention to limit the right of citizens to receive information freely. We want the Government to explain to us what the ministry of government truth is going to consist of and also why it wants to apply censorship to everything that contradicts its informal truth and official truth. And I want to start at the beginning. How is it possible that in the 21st century, in 2020, we are talking about ministries of truth and censorship? And it is that, gentlemen of the Government, those of us who were born in the 1990s could never imagine that we would have fewer freedoms than our parents had. [[Applauds]] The Spaniards no longer need to read dystopic novels and science fiction, where a great power controls education, comments, opinions, movements, family encounters and, ultimately, the lives of citizens. And we no longer need to read those dystopic novels to recreate a tyrannical state, because we have the example in reality, in the present and in our own country, and that example is represented by this Government of the twenty-two ministries. [[Applauds]] This government is taking advantage of its illegitimate and possibly illegal states of alarm, with the excuse of the health crisis, to cut the Spanish into freedoms and also to control the institutions that are called to control you. And they are doing so, because they are using all the institutions of the state for this, and because they have the complicity of a media mafia, a mafia composed by the televisions of the duopoly and by 90% of the heads and radios of Spain, domesticated and bribed with millions of euros from public money. Now, not all media get bribed and you still don't control everything. There are spaces where you have not yet taken control, which are spaces of resistance and freedom, which have started to bother you, and I am referring to social networks. Do you know why they've started bothering social media? Because a few months ago, when you were telling us that we were getting stronger and that you were taking the one-man command to save lives and protect our health care providers, the Spaniards discovered on social media what was really happening in hospitals and nursing homes. Also these days, while you approve budgets - and I insist, they tell us that we get stronger - the Spaniards show in their social media accounts what happens on the street, what happens to the Spaniards with their shops, and also show in their social media how the queues of hunger are getting longer and longer. Now, while you impose the curfew on the Spaniards and tell them that you have to wear masks mandatory, even when you go through a lonely camp, the Spaniards discover on social networks how you skip your own rules and go to party hall and carpet to drink champagne for your political future with the Tertullians, who later justify their nefarious politics on the TV sets. [[Applauds]] While the CIS polls tell us that you have a 'absolute' majority, citizens upload to Twitter and Facebook what happens when you step on the street: boocheos, get boocheos, many of them from their former voters. Because yes, you have started to run away from the street and also from the public squares of the 21st century, such as the squares of Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, because you come across them with reality. That is why this government wants to control even more what the Spaniards publish on social networks, and that is why this government uses the Civil Guard to monitor the opinions that the Spaniards reflect on the Internet, and that is why this government wants to establish the ministry of government truth, to censor the digital media that they do not yet control and that are not part of their media mafia, jumping away from the Constitution and the common sense itself, which says that the press, that is, the counter-power, cannot be controlled by power. [[applause]] Gentlemen of the Government, you are using state institutions not to protect citizens, but to protect yourself from the Spanish. I continue to explain his plan to censor the Spaniards, because it is not only the government's plan, it is also the plan of the progress consensus, which seeks to impose on the citizens what they can think and what they can say or not in public. There is nothing better like reading El País to discover the pretensions of consensus progress. A few weeks ago, the newspaper of Grupo Prisa published an article entitled: Social networks, a danger to democracy. [[Shows photocopy of a press headline]] In this article El País said the following: Social networks are a danger to democracy, because they have destabilized elections around the world. All right, and El País says, the same newspaper that in 2009 published an interview with one of Facebook's founders, an interview titled: Obama believed on the Internet. [[Shows photocopy of a press headline]] In this interview the Facebook manager said the following: We have tried with technology to make the job easier for Obama. We've used Facebook to give him the freeway to win elections. And this to El País did not outrage him. [[Shows both photocopies of previous press headlines]] What headline do we have to believe? The 2009 or 2020 headline? [[Applauds]] A closer example. A few years ago, the leaders of Podemos told us that social networks were a tool that people had to protect themselves from the political caste, and today, those same leaders of Podemos - those who criticized the People's Party's Gag Law, by the way - tell us and justify the need to gag the Spaniards, that is, the Spaniards who do not think like them, and they intend to justify it by insulting the censored because, what is behind that expression that can be used by the deputies of Podemos, the expression 'discourses of hatred'? For behind the discourses of hatred is all that opinion that contradicts his ideological agenda. That's what they call Podemos and the PSOE hate speech, that's what they mean. We have seen this clearly in the United States, where precisely the expression 'discourses of hatred' was born. In the most elite American universities prestigious professors have been dismissed and lecturers have been expelled because, on some occasion, they expressed an opinion that contradicted the consensus progress or because they offended some university student who is indoctrinated by Netflix. And now the most advanced left in Spain wants to introduce this persecution to the dissident, but not in universities, because it already controls them, neither on television, where being dissident makes you the focus of any criticism and mockery, pretends to pass its ideological roller on social networks, which is the only place that still does not control. And to make that censorship he has found that left to moralist capitalism, to his perfect ally, to the multinationals of Google, Twitter and Facebook, because really, who wants to limit freedom of expression? The government, the left or social media platforms? Well, all of them, just all of them. Twitter and Facebook creators have openly recognized progress, and from their Silicon Valley offices feel legitimized to censor citizens' elected presidents and parties representing millions of Spaniards. [[Applauds]] That is why those platforms are looking to the Government to legitimize and support their censorship. I'll show you some examples. Why doesn't Twitter allow VOX to spread the consequences of illegal and uncontrolled immigration? A few days ago we put a video of the attacks in Vienna, where five Europeans were killed by jihadists, and Twitter censored that video. [[Shows a photocopy of a newspaper page where it puts: Censored]] He told us that because there were fatal victims. [[Show another photograph]] But then, why does it allow Paul Churches to upload this image with deceased immigrants in the Mediterranean? What's going on? According to nationality, are some victims first and others second? Why doesn't Twitter allow us to meet the Spanish boy killed by Islamists in Barcelona, in the jihadist attacks on the Ramblas in 2017? And does it allow the entire press to upload this image of a dead Syrian child in Turkey to their social media accounts? [[Applauds]] [[Shows a photocopy of a newspaper page where it puts: Censored]] [[Shows the photocopy of an article from El Mundo]] I insist, for Twitter, are there first and second victims? Why does Twitter allow it to be trending in Spain for four hours 'Kill Abascal', but does not allow VOX to broadcast the MENA videos by assaulting the Spaniards, after working, to steal them? Why does Twitter protect criminals? [[Applauds]] Twitter cannot justify the unjustifiable, and that is why it needs the institutional support of this government to censor the Spaniards, and that is why Podemos presented a non-law proposal a few weeks ago to legitimize social media to censor the Spaniards. I'm finishing up. We know that this government is not going to tell us the reality, it is not going to tell us its plan, but we ask this government to see what excuses and lies they use, because sooner or later this government will fall, and in a few years the Spanish people will demand that trials be held in order for the lie to be punished, and this day...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u144	Mr. Marshal, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u145	I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u146	No, it has to end now. The interpellations are highly valued.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u147	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u148	Thank you. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the stand.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u149	Good morning. Thank you, President. Your Honor, I apologize, because the hour shift caught me in a meeting. I've come to hear you, but I beg you to accept my apologies. But I must confess one thing, his urgent interpellation looks like a manual oxymoron: freedom of expression and VOX together, in the same sentence; lettuce in rice with milk. The subject is for you as much as talking about feminism, migrants' rights or global warming. In any case, I will tell you one thing, Your Honor: welcome be your defence of freedom of expression, because it is my concern, although in your intervention for what you have really served has been an excuse to insult the Government to which I am a party. I must also confess to you that I am not surprised at your attack on the order of October 30th. As you surely know, that order is something very simple, very clear, it publicizes the procedure of action against misinformation, which was previously approved by the National Security Council. It is an update of a mechanism that was already working in our country, and that moves the European Union's strategy to combat something that is extremely worrying: misinformation. It is a positive step towards freedom of information, logically, and on the other hand, within the European context in which we do want to move. But, as we all know, the content of the order gives you frankly the same. The important thing is to find an excuse to go up to the rostrum to make a little noise and try to confuse the little part of the citizenry that still gives them some attention. I'm sorry to tell you that neither the hare nor the sardines run through the sea. And you can sing it and shout it as much as you want, but not by much repeating lies these are going to turn into truth. And I'll tell you something for your future pretensions, the truth never answers quantitative criteria either. The order published in the BOE says nothing of what you repeat, repeat and repeat. In the context of so much misinformation about the Commission against Disinformation, allow me to use the opportunity this rostrum offers me to refute some of the malicious hoaxes and exaggerations that have been made on this subject. Freedom of expression is one of the most important fundamental nuclear rights, the germ of freedom of thought, and the backbone of the liberal revolutions of the 17th and first half of the 20th century, today the basis of our contemporary democratic systems. Undeniable right contained in article 19 of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights; our Constitution enshrines it in article 20 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I'll point you to some of the points in your contents. The rights to freely express and disseminate thoughts, ideas, opinions, by word, writing or any means of reproduction are recognized and protected; also to literary, artistic creation and freedom of chair. He may be surprised to learn that the same provision of our Constitution also protects the right to information, but not to any information, but to truthful information, a kind of information that he is certainly not accustomed to, but that is essential for a rich democracy and a society of progress. Moreover, the exercise of these rights cannot be restricted by any previous censorship, I repeat, any previous censorship. The kidnapping of publications, recordings and other media may only be agreed upon by means of a judicial decision, I insist, a judicial decision. [[The Lord]] According to his account, the Government has failed or is already thinking maliciously of violating each and every one of these fundamental rights in our Magna Charter, and the argument is strong. Since the government is made up of Bolsheviks, coupsmen and people of bad living, fundamental rights are usually violated; this is what the coupsmen do. But the sardines - I assure you - are still uncorrupted on the mountain, though it weighs. I'll make it clear, but no stridentities. None of the measures that this Government has taken since its constitution has in any way limited the freedom of expression in our country, of nothing or of anyone else, on the contrary, this Government defends every day the right to express itself freely to each and every one of its citizens, including the right of its lordship to say some uplifting phrases every Wednesday and to write them on social networks on a daily basis. We already know that you like the governments of the past, those of the freedom of expression of one thought, imposed on blood and fire, the NO-DO as an example of truthful information, so much yearn for that regime, which you believe is the best government in Spain in the last eighty years. But I tell you one thing, listening to you, there are days when you seem to want to dig up nothing more and nothing less than the Catholic Kings and the Holy Inquisition, but there is no crusade, believe me, I'm sorry to bother you with your political fantasy. Today Spain is part of the twenty consolidated democracies, and this government does not say so, says The Economist, and this includes scrupulous compliance with this fundamental right by the public authorities, fulfilling and enforcing it. But we cannot assume that we enjoy the freedoms and guarantees we enjoy today; every day we have to work to preserve and expand them; we have to adapt our legal system and our institutions to the new challenges that are presented, because we have to continue to promote the exercise of these fundamental rights, as the Constitutional Court reminds us in each of its judgments. When our Constitution was drafted, there were no social networks and no Internet. We did not face the risks and threats to national security that we are experiencing today. We lived in the Cold War, and the main threat to security was nuclear war. Look at how times have changed. Today, one of the major threats to the rule of law and to freedom of expression and information lies precisely in the misinformation; especially in a pandemic context as we are currently in. During the first state of alarm, according to data from the Ministry of the Interior, the State Security Forces and Bodies detected 485 disinformation events on social networks that put the health of citizens at risk. Note that 104 of these false information referred to the health situation. The Attorney-General's Office has also recently published a note on this threat, ensuring that it is the breeding ground for some people, taking advantage of the existing confusion, to attempt to attack certain legal assets, including property, and, in particular, those who are in a situation of clear vulnerability. Your Honor, when we talk about threats, we don't talk about personal opinions, we don't talk about criticism of the management of the executive; we talk about acts organized by misunderstandings that can have harmful effects on our economy and on our general interests and, more importantly, that if they were successful, they would put our health and that of those around us at risk. I'm sure everyone likes the police to act when a scam occurs through false information, right? And let justice act and persecute the crime and restore the victim. For imagine an orchestrated campaign of disinformation, strictly planned with a clear intention of massive manipulation. These are the scenarios we have an obligation to anticipate and manage. It is entirely logical that the Department of National Security should monitor and monitor, as well as other threats to national security, campaigns of misinformation that clearly undermine democracy, national sovereignty and the security of the State itself. And that is what the order published in the BOE and by which you have raised so much stir. The procedure against misinformation therefore falls within the scope of national security with a clear objective: the fight against misinformation campaigns, most of which are born just beyond our borders. It also emanates from a European anti-disinformation plan, which was approved in 2018. The European Commission itself regards misinformation as one of the major threats of current democracies. At no time is it a struggle against false news, but to detect and act against disinformation campaigns, which are very organized and sophisticated campaigns. Nor is it true what they say about the fact that no media representative is involved. Your Honor, quite the contrary. A disinformation forum will be established, in which there will be public-private collaboration with the participation of the civilian population in this fight against disinformation, with the collaboration of the media and large digital companies, as well as in all national security forums. It is the big tech companies themselves - Facebook, Google, Twitter, Amazon - that directly limit the publications of what is detected as fake news or can contribute and constitute clearly intended disinformation campaigns. Indeed, without their cooperation all this effort in this area would be practically useless. It is a task of the public authorities, but also of the media and technological enterprises. In Spain, disinformation has a high degree of penetration. The European Commission, in its barometer of April 2018, makes this clear: 88% of citizens believe that misinformation is a problem for our country, and 66% claim to have false or misinterpreted information at least once a week. As I said at the beginning, this mechanism is not new. In March 2019, with a view to different electoral processes in Spain, a procedure to combat misinformation was approved, a work that has been maintained in time until today. In accordance with the experience gained in the fight against misinformation, from this date until now, and at the request of the European Union - I repeat, at the request of the European Union - which tells us that we have to improve our procedures, this plan has been updated and published, for greater transparency, in the State's Official Gazette. The Standing Committee against Disinformation is a technical and operational body, in which specialized officials in the field of disinformation work within the National Security Council. It is a working group more like that of the energy strategy and others. The role of the Secretary of State for Communication is not, as you say, to decide what is true or not, whether or not websites will be closed or whether broadcasting licenses will be removed or if journalists will be sent to jail. Your Honor, let's be serious, society demands it. Freedom of expression is not limited, freedom of opinion and criticism of government management are not limited, nor are our fundamental rights limited on social networks. Conversely, they are reinforced, because they are exercised in a framework of certainty. The mechanisms that this Government is putting in place to preserve and promote freedom of expression are precisely a strengthening of the rule of law. We are working and we will work towards that goal: a more full, better, more organized and more oversized rule of law. Above all, we believe that a critical and well-informed society is the basis for a strong and consolidated democracy. This government is committed to this, fighting massive manipulation, following the indications and plans of the European Union and the rest of the countries in our environment. I invite you to leave your Pinocchio costume and join this great challenge that we have as a society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u150	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mariscal Zabala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u151	Mr Campo, you are Minister of Justice, you are a magistrate, you were a member of the General Council of the Judiciary, and I am sure you know the legal system, you know the laws and you may also know the Constitution from the first to the last article, but you have a problem, and it is that you are part of a government that tramples on the Constitution and skips legality every day. [[Applauds]] Do you believe that this government is legitimized to decide what is true and what is lie and is legitimized to fight against misinformation? His president is the president of the bull and the lie, he is a president who in election campaign lied to us all the Spaniards about his pacts with Bildu and his pacts with Podemos, if he even told us that they were going to bring Puigdemont to judge him. [[Applauds]] And I could also quote and give some examples of the misinformation that you have launched during the pandemic: what you were saying about the coronavirus, about the measures to be taken, what you were saying about the masks; but I'm not going to say it is not going to be that YouTube blocks the Congress account by broadcasting negationist content, as you say. [[Applauds]] Minister, you want to impose the official truth, and you are not going to get it, because the truth does not belong to the government or belong to VOX or to any political party or even belong to the media. The truth is reality, and reality is all that Spanish people face every day. [[Applauds]] If VOX today is a third political force, it is because we have moved away from the farce in which you and your media terminals live. We've stepped more on the street and less on TV sets. We have read more carefully the opinions published by the Spaniards in the El País news than in their editorials and VOX has been more concerned about the lives of the Spaniards of the polygons, the countryside and the neighborhoods than about the fate of a criminal in the United States. In VOX we have very clear: either the Spanish people and their truth or the imposture in which you live. [[Applauds]] We have it very clear and we have already chosen. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u152	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister of Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, the morning leaves us with few surprises and your intervention has not been. Except for that advent of the apocalypse by the hand of an illegitimate government, from there few new developments. Nor does it seem that we are going to agree very much on strategies to combat misinformation campaigns. For you this is like gender violence or child poverty, inventions of progress. In any event, this Government is responsible and will continue to adapt all necessary measures to ensure citizen security and freedom of expression and information. In the area of justice, for example, we face an important challenge in this area. Unfortunately, it is common to find themselves in the media with leaks of judicial investigations that involve serious bench penalties for persons investigated. However, there are many cases of social relevance in which the honour and privacy of those investigated or prosecuted must be connected with the right to truthful information. It is the old dilemma of the photo of the prisoner handcuffed whose case then remains in nothing. The solution is not easy, but I can tell you that today the regulation applicable to criminal justice information is poor and much better. In fact, as you know, all the regulation of criminal proceedings is notoriously obsolete and far from the best European standards in this area. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, today I can give you a good news, an announcement that, because of its importance, I believe it should be made in this House and before the representatives of the citizenry. Work on the preparation of the preliminary draft Criminal Procedure Act is complete and will be discussed next Thursday in the General Commission prior to the Council of Ministers. I do not think anyone in this House or in society is discussing the need for Spain to have a fully constitutional, European, harmonised and effective criminal process against modern crime. It is urgent that our criminal proceedings go beyond that nineteenth definition and be updated. From this social consensus, the model for which we have chosen is the result of combining the work carried out during the governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party, incorporating the requirements of European criminal procedural law. We therefore present a consensus rule, which builds a country, which advances in the strengthening of the rule of law and, more importantly, the guarantees of all. We will present a rule that demonstrates the sensitivity of this Government to fundamental rights and, in particular, to the right we are debating today, the right to information. The new Lecrim will entail a complete and detailed regulation of judicial information, distinguishing its scope at each procedural stage without forgetting the rights of the victims or the accused himself. For the first time our procedural rule will regulate communications with the media and ensure its form of access to information with a clear social interest, but it will also establish limitations, such as those aimed at protecting the privacy of minors. Similarly, the integrity, honour and privacy of investigators, witnesses, experts or other interveners is protected, limiting the dissemination of their images when they are not of informational interest or are not socially relevant. As you will see, the issue is of great importance and complexity. I hope that we can open a calm political debate on this and many other aspects of the rule. The Government has the first word, but not the last, and a process is now being opened that has to be used to adjust, fine-tune and complete a good standard. There's no political color here that's worth it. It's a country project, it's a long-term project. In short, it will be a bill with the capacity to aggregate the accessions that requires a medullary rule for our order. The new Lecrim comes to respond to a historical demand in our country, overcoming the nineteenth-century penal procedural model we count on today. We have a 138-year rule that is totally out of date and does not fit the current social or legal reality. To overcome it requires collective understanding and construction, and there I place them. Moreover, the need for a profound change in the model of criminal procedure is not only imposed by constitutional demands and by the shared political will to improve our system of administration of justice. Moving forward in the construction of this new paradigm is essential; it is essential for the fulfilment of our country's international obligations and for the pursuit of the harmonization of our legal system with European law. Therefore, once the preliminary draft is approved and we have a solid basis for discussion, I invite all political forces and all interested social actors to participate in this debate on the criminal process we want. This normative granite that I trust will come to this House very soon, together with the necessary renewal of the institutions, is the best contribution we can make to the strengthening of the rule of law. That is the task we must face, so let us fulfil our responsibility, seek and, above all, reach agreements. This Government has a country project, an exciting, thoughtful project and, above all, a co-governed project that is delivering concrete results. I hope - I say this for the second time - that you will join the dialogue, although I certainly know that from the discrepancy, but that will be important. We live in a society that wants no conflict or frentism, but to move forward with maximum cohesion. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. When the years pass we will surely look from the future to this present moment, the moment of the pandemic, and let's say: we could have done more, each within our responsibilities, each within our sphere of influence and power, from our daily work. Let us not wait for the future, ladies and gentlemen, let us begin today by saying that we can do more and we can do more; let us dialogue, let us talk, let us agree, that is what society demands of politicians and institutions, of all. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u154	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO GUARANTEE THE RIGHT TO THE CONCILIATION OF WORK AND FAMILY, WITH PARTICULAR REFERENCE TO THE EXCEPTIONAL DIFFICULTIES GENERATED BY THE HEALTH EMERGENCY OF COVID-19. [[CONTINUATION]] [[File number 172/000064]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u155	In accordance with the Government, we are going to go on to discuss - and I would especially like to thank the Minister for Labour and Social Economy for her willingness - the urgent appeal of the Citizens Parliamentary Group to the Minister for Labour and Social Economy, on the measures that the Government intends to take to guarantee the right to work and family reconciliation, especially in the face of the exceptional difficulties caused by the health emergency of the Covid-19. Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u156	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the Minister and the President of Congress for their solidarity and flexibility in allowing this question not to fall apart, while explaining that, as we are at 50% in the Chamber, I have been behind schedule in what has been the transfer to the Chamber. I am so sorry, and I apologize to the whole Chamber. [[Applauds]] The Spaniards have many problems to reconcile, minister, as you will well know, working time and family. 68% of workers report problems in reconciling and this figure rises by 81% for women with dependent minor children. As I will try to explain throughout my speech, there are three factors that explain why it is so difficult to reconcile in Spain. [[Rumors]] Firstly, the lack of legal instruments that allow for effective reconciliation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u158	Secondly, the lack of co-responsibility, which means that it is women who assume almost all the tasks of care, because of the inertias of a historically macho culture, of segregation of tasks by sex and where men had a position of prevalence over women. The lack of public services is the last element, public services which are essential, which must be essential and accessible in order for such reconciliation to be possible. It is vital that we have professionalized services that enable us to meet the care needs that motivate reconciliation. To begin with, Minister, the rights recognized in our labour legislation seem to have advanced in the effectiveness of conciliation, but they remain very restricted. Progress has been made, such as the Organic Law 3/2007 of 22 March, to advance effective equality between men and women. It sought to contribute this legislation to co-responsibility in childcare by initially establishing a two-week paternity permit. Ten years later, as a result of the citizens' demand, these permits were increased in 2017 up to four weeks first; up to five weeks later; until finally, in 2019, an automatic and progressive increase was established until their equality with maternity leave in 2021 in sixteen weeks. An equalization so that they are equal and non-transferable permits for each parent. It is an achievement that we must be proud of and I assure you that in Citizens we are in favour of this change, but the equalization of maternity and paternity leave we know that it is not enough to achieve an effective reconciliation and co-responsibility. Because most of the conciliation needs do not come within the first twelve months of birth, they arise when a minor child has to stay at home because he or she is ill or when a parent becomes dependent on him or her because of his or her age or when a family member suffers from an illness or accident that requires support at home. At present, workers do not have permits such as maternity and paternity leave. Our legislation only provides for three types of instruments: adjusting the schedule or day without altering the annual calculation - this measure has a limited scope - or reducing your day by reducing your salary or asking for an exemption by renouncing the entire salary. This is what the system is currently offering us. It is true that distance work has gained notoriety, but we have to recognize that it is no panacea. First, because not all workers can lend themselves to distance work. On the other hand, because working remotely also involves working obviously and on many occasions meeting certain needs requires total attention. Therefore, taking into account this context in regulatory instruments, it is necessary to have a more flexible set of instruments allowing for much more substantial changes to the working day or conditions on a temporary basis as well as public economic benefits to compensate for the loss of wages to the workers concerned. For this reason, Madam Minister, the first thing we would like to hear is what measures your Government intends to take to facilitate the reconciliation of working and family life. On the other hand, these sacrifices that I mentioned earlier do not mean the same for everyone. Many people cannot afford a reduction in their wages directly. People with fewer resources cannot leave behind a job with which, despite many hours, they hardly reach the end of the month. Even when it comes to giving up a professional expectation or the very fact of having a job to care for a son or daughter, an older father or mother, it is still the women who practically take up this decision. Many times without appreciating or weighing the damage this decision brings to the home. In many cases, it happens simply because it is presumed that this is what women should do, which is what we have to do to be a good mother or a good daughter. As if the virtue or usefulness of a woman to her family could only be demonstrated through renunciation. The data are strong: As a sample of this gender gap, 68% of day-to-day adjustments, 89% of surpluses, 95% of the reduced hours that are recognised are for working women. Also in women part-time contracts prevail, one in four women have this type of contract compared to only 8% of men, although most of them say they would like to work longer. If they don't, Your Honor, it's because they don't have a chance to reconcile. These difficulties in reconciling, the renunciations to which this necessity requires, and the fact that these renunciations continue to be assumed by women, all of this has a direct translation into the wage differentials observed between women and men. This gap also has other negative consequences, in addition to pay, such as that many women are employed in more stable jobs that offer flexibility to reconcile, but who are less remunerated and on many occasions these women are overqualified, that is, they are in jobs that require less qualification than they have. The wage gap, occupational segregation and conciliation share common underlying causes. All these phenomena are explained by the same cause, because there are care needs that today are not covered outside the family sphere, because there are no public services that cover these needs. It is therefore necessary to cover with public services the needs that exist within the family to reconcile, because if not what we are seeing unfortunately is that we assume it mostly by women, because it is evident that there is an asymmetric assumption of care responsibilities and that they fall on women. Secondly, we would like to know what measures your Government intends to take to address and narrow the gender pay gap. However, as I pointed out at the beginning there is a third factor, if women are affected it is also because someone has to make a sacrifice, and that sacrifice has to do so because there is no public service network that has family-specific care to meet these family care needs. Even today, care is relegated to the area of self-care or in-house care by the persons in the family home themselves. In addition, there is an asymmetrical conception of care, it is not the same when we talk about the care of older persons, persons with disabilities or dependent persons, where a network of services has already been established - with better or less fortune, but has already been established - to meet these needs. However, when it comes to childcare or underage care, then perception changes and we return to that idea that care is a parental task. In Citizens we consider that parents should have the opportunity to take care of their children directly in all matters relating to care, because we also take into account that there is a personal and emotional component of children who need parental reference. In Citizens, we support and believe that resources are needed, such as schooling for children aged 0 to 3, which is universal and free of charge, to promote the generation of complementary services in the school itself: early opening; late collection; free out-of-school services or activities that can reach all families; and that day centres, playgrounds and other resources can help families to combine working and school hours with families. Therefore, our third question is that we would like to be made clear what measures your Government intends to take in this last area, in the area of public services, so that care needs can be addressed. In other words, how does your Government intend to move towards the construction of a national care system, which has already been mentioned and with which we are in line with it. We know that from your Government - not directly you, but the Minister of Equality - the measure of a pilot programme for the creation of caregiver-hours bags that families can use to take care of children under the age of fourteen has been incorporated into the budgets. But we need more information: how it's going to get started, who's going to be the beneficiaries, how it would work. However, these measures, being positive - because we believe they are positive - must be seen from an eminently structural point of view. The current position we are in with the COVID-19 imposes a number of exceptional and urgent needs that we have to meet, and we cannot afford to wait for it to start the whole system or even a system that will be preceded by a pilot experience. Therefore, the last question I would like to ask you is to explain to us what concrete measures you intend to take from your Government to ensure the reconciliation of families during this pandemic, during the COVID-19. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u159	Thank you very much, Mrs. Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u160	Thank you, Mrs Giménez and thank you to the Citizens' Group for raising a matter that is perhaps of the most relevant to the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy in the time we live. Good morning, everyone. In order for us to be here today, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can address this debate in this House today, many of you have had to ask yourself a question, a question that is not punctual, but that puts our lives at risk every day: who stays with my mother? With my father? Who's looking after a family member who's sick? Who will look for my daughter or my son if they call me, for example, from school? In short, what had to happen so that I could be here today? No one is alien to that question, we are all committed to it, and that is why this debate is not part of a parliamentary inquiry, but is the very subject of the society we want. It is a question that speaks to us of equality between women and men, of the precariousness that affects our productive model, of laws that have drowned our labour relations and of the absolute importance, as the pandemic has shown, of public services. You were talking about it yourself. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the great debate of this time: the achievement of a sustainable system that does not assume care as an uncomfortable obligation, but as a genuine constituent task that demands the collective effort and maximum involvement of all public authorities. This debate, which, as I say to you, is essential, has so far been carried primarily through the laws. As you know, last year in the European Union, the third directive in this area, Directive 2019/1158 on Family and Professional Conciliation, was adopted. It is a rule that seeks to incorporate new perspectives and that imposes an obligation of transposition for all States and uniquely for our own. I am already in advance of you, Your Honor, that we have the transposition prepared and we would like your group, like the rest of the House, to work on it. In Spain, too, the penultimate rule on this subject occurred last year with Royal Decree 6/2019, a rule that, as you know, contained several measures for equal opportunities between men and women at work, among which the measures were uniquely not of conciliation, but of co-responsibility. Royal Decree 6/2019 set up an compromised system of permits, let's remember it, individual, equal and non-transferable, which precisely altered the logic of classical permits as was, for example, the old maternity leave. The directive I have cited and Royal Decree 6/2019 are the axes of a reality that was defined around two clear material principles. The first principle, which I think we are going to agree on, is that care must be at the centre of life and the second principle is that equal care requires no reconciliation - women are tired of reconciling - but it requires co-responsibility not only for the caregiver, but also, and this is the key from the ministry I speak from, for business and for society. [[Applauds]] If I may, there is a third principle, as you know, from constitutionalism: the invocation of article 9.2 of our constitutional text. It is necessary that the public authorities turn equality into real and effective equality. In fact, the Union itself establishes as a basic principle for gender equality in the Recasting Directive 2006/54 the need for Member States to act effectively - you also spoke of effectiveness - precisely in defining these rights. Let me now refer to the last of the rules on care proposed by this Government, which was among the main ones in Royal Decree 8/2020, the Care Plan. It has been the first time in the history of Spanish labour law that people's care has actually been placed - as required by the constitutional text - without conditions or limitations at the centre of the operation of companies, forcing them to find satisfactory alternatives for all people, those who care and those who do not care. As you know, Your Honor, it is a paradigm shift, it is the first time that workers have a preferential right to choose their day, to adapt it or even to reduce it. Because, in short, when talking about that care should be at the center of life means that it should inspire the way in which work is organized in the company, and I want to talk to you about this, Your Honor - it is key - because in the proposals that you make, some of which are very interesting, they obviate the world of the company, and without the involvement of the company we cannot change care. It means something that we don't always remember, and that is that the right to one's own time is not just a right of the people who care, but a right of all working people. When we talk about the rules of co-responsibility, we must go beyond the strict framework of the rules, as I said to you, of conciliation - I stress this term - which is precisely where your proposals are moving. We know your legislative proposal, we know your amendments and we are moving away in a unique way, because the twenty-first century must not speak of conciliation nor should it fall under Article 37 of the Statute. We must move forward, as we have already done in Royal Decree 9 and precisely in Royal Decree 8 this year. Whenever the labour law has so far regulated the issue of care, it has done so from an exclusive perspective - this was what I was talking about - in which the problem of care was precisely who it was. Just as men help at home, companies and other workers in the company also help, but helping - we certainly agree - is not enough. Without real and effective co-responsibility, it is impossible for this real change of society as a whole to take place in the face of care. In this context, the labour law has so far adopted a guardian role, if I may, in the face of the alleged abuse of the people we care for. Our rules of conciliation are full of caution and guarantees, which expressly or implicitly blame the workers and carers for the damage they cause to the company and the rest of the partners. The Plan Me Care is a rule of effective co-responsibility, because it establishes a new perspective that goes from mistrust to trust, that invests - and this is very important - the burden of proof and that obliges, as I said, the company to adapt to the needs the organization of the work precisely of the people. This has never happened in our country's labour legislation. The effects of this standard born of the health emergency will still be seen in its entirety, but it is now possible to see the effect that the Plan me care humbly has had on the alteration of the patterns of organization of working time in the companies, which in just a few months have already adopted with total naturality mechanisms facilitating care. Thus, for example, it is noted in the clear decrease of the departure day during the pandemic. According to the INE's recent data on hours of work leaving, in 2019 20% of working people were running out of work and leaving at the last hour of the afternoon. After the Care Plan this percentage has been reduced to 13,5 %, a very significant decrease of 6 points which in percentage terms reaches 32 %. This means that during the pandemic one in three people who worked until the end of their day has stopped doing so. It is likely that many of the people who have spent a continuous time have care responsibilities, but it is certain that the introduction of these new time-organization systems has also benefited people without care responsibility, because working time - here is the key - in a company requires general action. Promoting the participation of all of us in care is co-responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. Co-responsibility means much more, it means rethinking, as I said, the rules of working time, prioritizing the right to one's own time, disconnection, limits to full availability. Co-responsibility implies that all labour regulations are designed so that care can be carried out in a co-responsibility manner. It is the mandate of gender mainstreaming that establishes the Organic Law on Effective Equality, for many years ignored, by the Government of the People's Party. Cross-border co-responsibility means that the operation of the company must be designed so that it does not have a negative impact on the people who care for any of its aspects. This has already been indicated to us on several occasions by the European Court of Justice, of course by the Supreme Court or by the Constitutional Court itself. We therefore need a new legislative strategy with ramifications throughout the whole system. These normative extensions, so that co-responsibility and equality are effective, are a commitment of this ministry. We have deployed Royal Decrees 901 and 902 which, as you know, operate on equal pay and also on equality plans. If you will allow me, I anticipate that the changes and the transposition of the directive will be addressed, as always, by this ministry within the framework of social dialogue, and we also want to do so - as we are already doing, and you yourself said - in absolute cooperation with the Ministry of Equality. We must address these challenges and above all be aware that we are facing a new conception of working time. At the moment we cannot afford to continue talking about conciliation rules which, as I have said, have a purely anecdotal impact on people's lives. All labour regulations need to work, so that people get back the right to their own time, and this, for example, means that we have to recognise all hours worked. I give you a figure: weekly, six million hours of overtime are produced, of which 42 % is not paid; it is a scandal. But it means something else, it is necessary that all labour regulations are designed to make people's right to time real and effective. I give you an example: you make a proposal that coincides with ours about a bag and a bank of hours; you propose 5% of them, the problem is that we do not share how you do it, and we do not share it, first, because before making the bank or the bank of hours we have to regulate overtime, overtime - which is another huge fraud bag - and above all the part-time contract. We hope to agree with you, and above all also because in this calculation that you do we have to regulate once and for all the irregular distribution of the day. I give you an approach: what happens to these time bags if the person with care responsibilities can be disturbed, as is the case today, their working conditions and even the essentials at any time? This is happening now, allowed by the labour legislation of the People's Party. What happens, for example, if there isn't...?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u161	Your Honor, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u162	I anticipate that we will transpose the directive and in the reply I will also give you new indications of where we are going to work and we hope to have you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u163	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u164	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister, for your exhibition. I also wanted to focus on the situation of the pandemic at this time of replication, because all the difficulties that we are dealing with in this area of conciliation, which already existed before this health emergency, we are all aware that they have now multiplied by a thousand; a pandemic that has caught us all unsuspecting and that has forced us to face situations that we do not even imagine. Look, we've been talking about two ways for weeks, because I want to tell you, Minister, that you too have the stretched hand of Citizens to advance in conciliation and co-responsibility, a matter of which little or nothing, or almost nothing, we've heard of to your partners in Republican Left and Bildu. We are not responding properly, Minister, to this pandemic, we are not doing well, which does not mean that nothing has been done. We are the first to recognize this and to highlight the measures that have been taken during the state of alarm, but all those measures that you have mentioned are not sufficient to address the reconciliation needs of families either in general or in the light of the exceptional situations that we have now seen with this crisis of the COVID. As I said at the outset, these measures have the same shortcomings as the rest of the legal system, either they are not within the reach of the whole world or they involve a renunciation, apart from the salary, which clearly many families cannot afford. At the same time, the reduction in working time, even if it is a measure of more general scope, entails a reduction in wages that not all workers - in this we want to have a great deal to do, especially because of the situation in which we find ourselves - can afford, not to mention that in the case of the self-employed, who on many occasions see that they are the great forgotten, this measure is not even within their reach. As we pointed out in Citizens as early as March, these limitations make it necessary to articulate exceptional measures, at least as long as the health emergency continues; measures that do not imply a wage reduction or that either compensate for this reduction when it is unavoidable. We have now seen all those who are parents with the start of the school year, when they send the children home simply for a preventive quarantine. What alternative are we giving families? This deserves an exceptional and urgent response. The Government has even announced twice its intention to implement some type of permit or benefit that would prevent workers from having to give up their wages, but also twice this measure was exactly guarded in a drawer and we have received no explanation. Citizens put forward an initiative last week in the Labour Commission in which we asked the Government to recover and implement a proposal for parental leave, a proposal that was supported by the PSOE, its party, and by the People's Party and the only one that did not support it was the VOX party, which must be that it does not consider this parental leave necessary or meet these family reconciliation needs. Also now, on the occasion of our hand in the area of budgets, we have put this parental leave measure on the table. You pointed out this commitment in that Commission, but now it is not just enough to declare it, it must also be put into practice. That is why, before I finish my speech, I would like to be confirmed how or when your Government intends to implement this parental leave so that parents can take care of their children when they have to stay home because of the health crisis only in preventive quarantine. Similarly, in the area of public-private collaboration, it has referred to the importance of having companies. Clearly, we as Citizens are very aware of the need for such public-private collaboration, but with this interpellation I just wanted to know the position of the State Administration, of the Government to correct these errors that we currently have, of which I think we are very aware, but we have to move forward because, at the moment, society, families and especially women need it. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u165	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Labour and Social Economy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u166	Mrs Giménez, co-responsibility is much more than permissions. I believe that you have remained as constrained by permissions and conciliation. I say this because I suppose you know that the directive that we are going to transpose already requires a partial permit in this case and, indeed, we are going to discuss this, even if it is not within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, but we are going to do so. I am sure you know this, the directive requires partial permission to deal with the issues of care, but, I insist, we have certain distances from the approach you take. You say that your law is integral, I say again that it is not when you exclude the business world. Our approach, following the Nordic model, is precisely that the company must adapt to the care needs of workers. But I say again that they are handled within the framework of Article 37 of conciliation, and we must overcome that framework. Why? For a primary reason, and it is that 37 and the rights of conciliation are based on a principle, which is the absence of one part of the world of work. The great absent, as you know, are women. I'll give you data, if you like, this year. In 82.6% of cases up to July, it is women who reduce the working day, and so on. We do not want women to leave the world of work, what we want is, beyond permissions, to regulate from the presence in the world of work by arbitrating other measures. They are the great absentes who then sacrifice their professional careers and then have margins of absolute unprotectiveness. But we also have discrepancies with your proposal because, for example, you make a proposal to split the postpartum leave to two weeks immediately after pregnancy, which, as you know, violates Article 103 of the ILO that we have ratified by our country, which does not allow for splitting and, on the other hand, also has to do with the requirement that it should be six weeks - six weeks - uninterrupted in the postpartum period. Its proposal violates Community legislation, it would not be possible. We also have other discrepancies. For example, you sacrifice a right that is sacrosanct, the right to vacation, and propose that seven days of that vacation the workers, by merging the Public Service, have as a kind of Moscow. You know that this prevents it from Spanish doctrine, and of course holiday rights; I insist, you cannot touch it. We do not share the proposal that you do - you say - accompany minors when they are sick, and make a retrievable permit proposal. What is required by the directive - and our legislative proposal will go that way - is the regulation of family force, this is key, and not recoverable, because, if not, the workers will be losing rights every day that progresses. And not only that, is that we do not share his proposal, which again abounds in the legislative framework of the twentieth century, that women, in that greater force, we continue to be those who care for the relatives of our companions, husbands, wives or whatever is necessary, this which is technically called affinity. You replay this model that reproduces absolutely masculinized roles. So, we have differences. We have differences, for example, with the proposal you make, which is outside the real world of the company. You make a proposal that is: for workers to take care of, we hire caregivers. I ask you a question, Mrs Giménez: are we not going to respect the rights of care for caregivers? Who's taking care of them? How do they take care of them? That's a big question. It seems to us that your legislative proposal is not correct. However, we are willing - I insist - to discuss it. Likewise, as I said, we have a discrepancy, and it is that you speak formally of the adaptation of the day, but a key transformation element, which is that in article 34.8 today a thirty-day negotiation period is required, you do not touch it, and this is one of the problems we have in the daily lives of companies. We can't move on 30-day margins. We believe that the key is the rights of adaptation of the day following the Nordic models and of course with very interesting debates, but I am already warning you that the directive itself requires a partial permit. As for the self-employed, you're right. I tell her how I reconciled in my professional office: with my mother, who brought me my daughter Carmela to take care of her. I believe that this is how the self-employed and the self-employed reconcile in our country. We need to have a debate; as you know this is the matter of the Minister for Social Security and Inclusion, who will be willing, but here the paths are complicated by the margin of self-organization that the autonomous and autonomous have, but there is a way to work from contributions or bonuses. Still, I keep the positive. The debate has been very interesting and we are left with its contributions. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u167	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, in order for the Government to give its view on the assessment of the Governor of the Bank of Spain and the President of the Commission on the Macroeconomic Table included in the general budget of the State. (File number 172/000066)]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u168	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress for the Government to give its view on the assessment of the Governor of the Banco de España and the President of the AIReF on the macroeconomic picture included in the General Budgets of the State. For your defense, Mr. Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u169	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, thank you very much for your presence here today. My first words are, in turn, to denounce the words of another Vice-President of the Government this morning. Some chilling words have been heard today. It has been said by the second Vice-President of the Government that his aspiration is for the right to be outside the State. These are improper demonstrations by a Vice-President of the Government. I understand you can do it in a circle in Galapagar, if you want in The Brecht chalk circle, but not as vice president occupying a seat in the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] I am not going to ask you, Madam Vice-President, to retract the words of your colleague, because it is he who, in his case, has to be held accountable for what you have said and, of course, is an over-verbal in this House. Secondly, because we have already had some dialectics with you, Madam Vice-President, I would like to make clear two issues which are a little part of the intellectual context. First of all, we agree that everything we are living in is the result of a pandemic and, as such, is the result of an international context, and that uncertainty dwells right now in all the countries of the world - it is true - and that, indeed, making economic predictions is now a situation of permanent incognite - it is true - but it is also true one thing, Madam Vice-President - and I have said this to you and, unfortunately, I have to repeat it again today here - what is not global is that Spain continues to occupy the last place in all the classifications of Europe at twenty-seven. That is true and that is no longer the fault of the pandemic, it will be the fault of structural factors of our economy, of our productive structure, of our own employment system, but I also understand that of the policy being pursued by the Government, because then there would be no margin, it would be unnecessary for there to be a Government if it did not directly influence the position we occupy. That is why I say to you, Madam Vice-President, that we are the last, and you know it, in creating national wealth in Europe, we are the last, and you know it, in creating jobs, we are the first to be unemployed. Moreover, it is not that we stay here, it is that we are the first in budgetary imbalance, of which in the autumn estimates of the European Commission we extend this position to the next two years. This is a very serious situation, Madam Vice-President. The economic and social deterioration we are experiencing in this country is regrettable, and this is not a mere trial. And I ask you not to say that they are fragmentary data, because they are not fragmentary data. Fragmentary data are trying to grasp the third quarter line with a recovery that, if we discounted the effect of the pandemic, would be significantly lower than that of the rest of the European Union countries. Look, today I have an orange bond - things of life, we have returned to orange; the PP also had the orange color, I'm sorry, I say it to the lords of Citizens - and it is the bond of educational freedom. I'll give you an example. Imagine that you have a child and are the last child in the class, draw the worst grades in your class. We can do three things: the first, think that the child gives no more of himself. I don't think so, if we're his parents, because we have to try to directly empower the child's development to be one of the best in the class. Secondly, to say that it is worsening its educational performance because it has been joined by a group of students who are somewhat problematic. That is what is happening, Madam Vice-President, you have joined an agreement with a set of difficult, difficult, problematic allies. Thirdly, to blame the professor, who is what they usually do, to blame the opposition, the European Commission and the rest of the institutions. That's where I think they're seriously wrong. Therefore, Madam Vice-President, I share with you that this is an international crisis, but - I insist - what is not international is that Spain is the last country in Europe to twenty-seven. We are so, and you are the economic vice president of this government. [[Applauds]] It no longer hangs in any way - and they have been saying for about a year - that the exit from this crisis will be different from the exit from the other crisis. At a certain point, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party buried two years of its history, which, by the way, are alive on the website of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party; there is transparency, it must be recognized. Go to May 12, 2010, see the website of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. And you know what's up? A photo of a government president named José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, who was entering where Congressman Simancas came in right now, was sitting there and reporting on a decree-law by which pensions were frozen, by which the salary of public employees was cut by 5%, by which the Christmas extra pay was abolished, by which the summer extra pay was then abolished, by which the disability support programmes were reduced by 80%, by which the famous baby check disappeared, which, in such a plethora and portent way, also announced President Zapatero. In addition, the budget cut would then arrive; the expression 'adjustment plan' was coined by the Socialist Party, see it on the website of the Socialist Party. But the budget presented the following year contained a 10% reduction in public expenditure. This is the situation, Madam Vice-President. Today I have seen her appeal to the heart; we have gone from hoisting the shoulder to the heart. All right, so from anatomy we return to the economy and try to give solutions directly to the problems of this country. Let's go to exactly what brings us here. Last week the governor of the Banco de España and the president of the AIReF attended, two institutions with the highest prestige and reputation, on which we have to make a clearly technical assessment and strip it of any kind of political consideration or conmisement, as it cannot be otherwise. The first thing that surprises me is that you respond to the technical opinions of both the Governor of the Banco de España and the President of the AIReF with certain qualifications. I must admit, Madam Vice-President, that you only said that you were surprised by what the Governor of the Bank of Spain had said - that's what I read in the communication ones; if not, excuse it because maybe it's another word -. I was more surprised by what Minister Escriva did, which is not here today either. Write against Write. It is common in political maquetism: when one comes from a technical body and has to do some sort of judgment of permanent faith to feel converted to the new political cause, he does what he does, and he did Escriva. Escrivá began directly criticizing the governor of the Banco de España and said how he could analyse specific expenditure items, how he could analyse the increase in staff salaries in the service of the public administration or the increase in pensions. How fragile the memory is!; that is, the democratic memory must be the budgetary oblivion, because when I was president of the AIReF I had no objection to being permanently criticizing microparties, the budget breakdowns. He did, see his statements a year ago, from his last speech in the Congress of Deputies. Now it turns out that it has to be the minister who says what the Governor Banco de España has to talk about and it has to be an analysis of monetary and macroprudential policy; he cannot talk about the aggregates. When I was the president of the AIReF, didn't I speak directly about each of the tax breaks? But let's go to what the governor of the Banco de España and the president of the AIReF said. They questioned the macro forecasts of the General Budgets of the State. And here I'm going to give you an assessment. That you think that the Spanish economy will grow by 9.8% by the year 2021, is certainly an optimistic forecast. Although it now seems that neither can be said 'optimistic'; there is a sort of conjure about the words that can be said in politics, but expressions such as the optimistic scenario, half or less optimistic are part of the dialectic conventions of the regulatory bodies themselves. Look, with a wealth creation rate of 9.8%, you expect tax revenues to grow by around 12%. This year, which is going to fall by 11.2%, you expect tax revenues to fall by only about 8%. I don't know what kind of elasticity they've used to do this calculation. Of course, you will tell me that new tax figures have been introduced and that they can have a certain behaviour. Now let's see exactly what the behavior of those tax figures can be. But look what the Governor of the Banco de España said, that the forecast of economic growth seemed to him to engage with the most optimistic that they had managed until then, but added something else: to the most optimistic of the month of September, that is, prior to the statement by the President of the Government of a possible state of additional confinement and, therefore, of a contraction of economic activity both on the supply side and on the demand side. That's right. What the Governor of the Banco de España added is that it would probably not reach 9.8% growth, that there was a very clear risk of non-compliance with the growth forecast by the Spanish Government and the Spanish economy. But he kept talking about tax revenues. He also talked about the impact rate that Community funds could have, and he talked about 1.2. Well, 1.2 is what you have determined, in principle, as an impact, when the Governor of the Banco de España places it at 0.8 for a reason. First, because it's been the historical series. In the historical series, the multiplier caused by the use of Community funds in recent years has been 0.8. But I want to remind you of one thing, Madam Vice-President, and you know it well - I repeat, you know it well - and you are hiding it, next year the chances of the execution of Community funds will be very low and not because liquidity, in particular the monetary fund, comes at a certain time. That is the least, since it is budgeted under a principle of budgetary prudence that would give much to talk about for manualists and researchers in budgetary law. But I tell you one thing, Madam Vice-President, between which projects are selected, between which projects are tendered and awarded and between which subsidies and public aid are called and granted, you know perfectly well that we are going to practically put ourselves at the end of the year in execution. I say this not because it is a political problem, which it is, because it is a management problem - look, I am not blaming you - but because Spanish legislation and the governance systems in place right now do not allow for proper and temporary implementation of the funds. You know that this is a problem, Madam Vice-President, and you will certainly be presenting a rule here in an imminent manner that shortens deadlines and establishes certain measures. We will be careful to see how you maintain the balances between transparency, objectivity, competitive competition and, of course, the reduction of deadlines and the urgency of times. Let's see how they can do it. We continue with what the Governor of the Banco de España said and came to say that, obviously, with an inflation as has occurred from tax revenues, given an exaggerated and exacerbated calculation of what is the collection of income... By the way, do you really believe that in a time of economic contraction, when 100 000 companies have been destroyed, in which they have lost their jobs at the moment 700,000 workers, we are going to reach a historical record of collection next year? No one believes this at all, no one at all. However, this is provided for directly in the budgets. But it's just that the president of the AIReF came and said the same thing. The President of the AIReF insisted heavily on the absorption of Community funds. That is why, Madam President, we would like you to clear up that incognito. I insist, it is not so much a political problem as it can also be a management problem. But it does not end here, unfortunately, all the bodies that ensure the integrity of our accounts, our finances and our economy, because the European Commission's autumn estimates arrived and, as I said before, they put us on the line of all the indicators for two years. Madam Vice-President, in view of this situation and in this first round of my speech - and then I will ask you a few direct questions - I would like you to give us an assessment, whether you consider that the forecasts can be met or not and whether you consider the technical analyses carried out by the Banco de España and the AIReF to be correct or not. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u170	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u171	Thank you very much, President. Mr Garcés, I thank you for the tone because you are being moderated and, in addition, I also thank you for taking on some evidence of the current situation on which we have had the opportunity to share views on previous occasions. The truth is that you have raised many questions in your question, I will try to structure the answer by focusing on the question of economic forecasts, which is the last one you have raised. As I repeat every time I deal with this issue, from the beginning of the pandemic the maximum that has guided us in addressing economic forecasts is that of prudence, essential at a time of so much uncertainty, as you yourself have pointed out. We have been very responsible for taking decisive and coherent measures to address the health, economic and social crisis, responding to the needs of every moment and adapting those measures as circumstances have evolved. We have been responsible for articulating all these measures in the hands of social dialogue and seeking the endorsement of this Parliament, which, in fact, has supported with its vote the successive validations of the royal decree-laws that we have been presenting. And we have also been cautious in our estimates, always placing ourselves on the average of the forecasts of national and international agencies. So much so that the progress of the quarterly national accounts of the third quarter of this year published by the National Institute of Statistics, to which you referred, has surprised all analysts for good, exceeding the forecasts that the Government itself had, when it reached a growth of GDP between July and September of 16,7 %. This shows that the Spanish economy was reactivated with force despite being in a totally abnormal situation, without having international tourism and already suffering rebounds from the pandemic in some important territories, such as Catalonia and Aragon, which led to measures to restrict mobility. In fact, the growth of the Spanish economy in the third quarter has been among the highest in Europe, although this growth has not been incorporated in the forecasts published later by the Commission and the International Monetary Fund. The latter already indicated that the consideration of this third quarter would probably lead them to review their growth forecasts upwards. The truth is - and you yourself have pointed out - that in the current circumstances the forecasts are subject to a permanent review according to how events evolve. That is why it is very important to identify the risks that exist when we are talking about these issues. In fact, in our macroeconomic table accompanying the draft State General Budgets for 2021, which was presented last October 15th, we identified four downside risks. Firstly, the evolution of the pandemic, because if anything teaches us this crisis is that health and economy must go hand in hand, and that is why it is so important to tackle the pandemic with determination. The experience of the third quarter shows us that in those places where rebounds are controlled the economic impact is less. That is why the latest news on the evolution of the pandemic, which has been shared today by the Minister of Health, is positive from the economic point of view, as are the announcements of the next lifting of some of the restrictive measures adopted, for example, in Catalonia, and, of course, the positive news that we could have a vaccine already in the first months of the year, just as some of the laboratories that have more advanced projects have advanced. The second downward risk that we have identified and that is included in our forecasts is that of possible geopolitical tension, and here too the evolution of the last few weeks allows us to expect positive progress. The third risk that we have incorporated into our predictions is hysteresis, that is, that there may be deeper and more permanent structural damage to our productive structure as a result of the crisis that plagues recovery. To avert this danger, we have put in place from the very first day on measures that you know well, because they have been validated by this House, in order to protect the productive fabric, employment and family income. These are measures such as the ICO's endorsements, the extraordinary support for ERTs or the extraordinary benefit for the self-employed. They are measures that are working, as shown by the rapid recovery of activity and employment in the third quarter, and they are measures that we continue to adapt according to the circumstances with agility and determination. Proof of this is the real decree-law that the Council of Ministers adopted yesterday with new measures to avoid companies solvency problems, particularly the smaller ones, and the autonomous ones to prevent - as I said - structural damage in the face of the future, to support our productive fabric in these weeks and months that we still have ahead. To this end, we have extended the deadline for the granting of ICO guarantees until June 2021, we have extended the repayment periods up to eight years and those lacking up to 24 months in order to relieve the financial burden of the more than 567,000 companies that have resorted to this instrument of public guarantees, we have raised the threshold from which companies have to move from the alternative market for SMEs expanding to the continuous market in order to facilitate the access of companies to alternative sources of financing to banking, and we have extended until 14 March 2021 the measures adopted in the field of competition to prevent solvent companies from being subject to dissolution due to transitional capital difficulties that have nothing to do with the real viability of their projects. These are measures that go in line with those adopted in other European countries and are clearly aimed at facilitating the survival of our solvent and viable companies, at helping our entrepreneurs and self-employed to resist during the complicated months that, as I said, we still have ahead and in this way mitigate the risk of structural damage to our productive fabric and facilitate, allow recovery. The fourth identified risk relates to possible difficulties in implementing the European funds associated with the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan in a swift and rapid manner. As you have pointed out, our growth forecast for next year, at around 7%, can increase between two and three percentage points with the full implementation of the investment and reform plan, an additional growth capacity aligned with that estimated by other international agencies. The agile execution of the investments provided for in the State General Budgets for the year 2021 is an important lever for economic recovery and we are working, in fact, on a real decree-law that will speed up decisively the execution of public investments and properly articulate the public-private collaboration, protecting at the same time the rigour in the management of the public, and from his words I deduce the opening of his political party to support this real decree-law, which would be very good news. In addition, this same week the President of the Government launched a social dialogue table to channel the involvement of social actors in the development of the plan. This same week we presented to the economic and social partners the draft of the connectivity plan and the 5G plan, two key pieces of the Digital Agenda that incorporates the recovery plan. Tomorrow, Vice-President Fourth will hold an important event with the main actors of the private sector for the deployment of the Green Hydrogen Roadmap in our country. That is, Your Honor, in addition to responding to the pandemic's emergencies, we are working with a look into the future so that we can start implementing the Recovery Plan as soon as possible. That is why we have presented a responsible, balanced draft General State Budgets for 2021, with an important volume of EUR 39 billion of public investment to channel European funds and respond to the priorities of the vast majority of Spanish citizens. That is why we once again, over and over again, extend our hand to all political parties in order to achieve, as soon as possible, budgets that are essential and urgent. In short, Your Honor, in relation to these four risks, as the Governor of the Banco de España himself pointed out a few days ago, the latest news is moving away from the most negative scenarios. But we must continue to act cautiously, because the scenario is changing and depends heavily on how the health situation evolves not only in Spain, but in Europe as a whole. In aggregate terms, the economic impact of this second wave is not comparable to that of the first wave in spring. Fourth quarter data sends mixed signals. While consumer indicators show the effect of containment measures adopted by the autonomous communities, the labour market continues to show dynamic behaviour in social security affiliations, as we saw in October. Therefore, with all caution, our central scenario today foresees that the economy will continue to grow in this fourth quarter and that, with the measures that we are taking among all to accompany the most affected companies and sectors, we will be able to protect a solid basis for growth in the year 2021. Let me finish with an idea for the future. Forecasts are not written in stone. I am sure you agree with me, it is not an oracle of the future that is predestined to be fulfilled. Under such changing circumstances, with silent news every week, the degree of uncertainty is maximum and caution must also be maximum. But what is clear is that what happens in the future depends on our actions in the present. We are all actors and we must all be responsible. Now it is time to control the rebounds, protect the productive fabric and employment, approve the General State Budgets for 2021 and implement the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. These must be the priorities for all of us right now, and I have heard nothing in your speech that makes me think that you do not agree with what I am saying. Therefore, although I sometimes seem to preach in the desert, I do not lose hope. Help us now to do what our country needs for the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u172	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Madam Vice President. Don't confuse moderation with endurance. I have been able to use a tone probably less vehemently than other times, but, look, here a vice president says what he says with an absolutely linear tone and it is one of the biggest verbal attacks on democracy that have been heard in the last forty years, you agree with EH Bildu in an absolutely neutral tone and that is radical. [[Applauds]] The tone will be the one you have to use. Or the tone we heard yesterday when the Ecclesiastes of the north background began to insult us all the members of the People's Party. I think it is necessary to seek a balance, of course, and to find the formula necessary to be able to have the necessary dialectic balance. [[Applauds]] I'll tell you one thing, Madam Vice President. I'm sorry to disagree with you, but you also have to understand that even though you want to drive us out of the state. I don't know where I'm going, some tax haven you guys... I don't know... when the vice president said he had to get us out of the state... I'll tell you very clearly. As for public spending, you hit the historical record of public spending in these General State Budgets. Obviously, it's for the Recovery and Resilience Fund. But have you done any analysis of rationalization of structural public expenditure? Have they made any analysis or spending review, as Minister Escriva said on purpose when he was president of the AIReF, up until now on television, when he was talking about having to do an analysis to determine the efficiencies of certain public spending? I no longer refer to this powerful structure that you have of ministers and secretaries of state. I always set my example. I was the Secretary of State of a Vice-President of the Government and a Minister of Equality. Look, the lowest number of women killed in the history of this country. They should look into the eyes every time that is said, and look into the eyes of the Equality Minister now, when they have a ministry with which, however, that is not so. If so, and you know it perfectly well, honourable Member. We work together and it's for everyone's contest. But also recognize the merits of others. Having said that, you have not done any analysis on the efficiency of any expenditure. In the area of income there are 13 tax figures. They have just imported the class struggle into the tax field. The total impact of the tax change, do you know who it's going to fall on? Approximately 87% in the middle and lower classes. Where's that redistributive class struggle? You are permanently confusing the concept of progressiveness with the concept of progressiveism. It all starts with the same thing! Of course, if it's all the same here, here we confuse moderation with moderation, progressiveness with progressiveism, and so we go, and equality, dona Sofia, with egalitarianism. This is the reality, unfortunately. But, if it is true that there is going to be a reduction in income, because it is impossible to collect what you have said, and you know it perfectly - by the way, Mr Escriva also said when he was in the AIReF, he referred to the scant collection impact that the tax on financial transactions and the Google tax would have, although I do not know what he will say now in this process of conversion, in this very strange heretical process that has occurred - I have said heretical, not erotic, will not go to understand Mr Escriva that it is erotic, that it is nothing erotic -; from there, obviously, in that sense there will be a greater budgetary imbalance, we will close with two digits the budgetary imbalance next year, and not what you say is false. You know perfectly well that public debt is going to go up to 130%. Do you know that a Spanish family of four members in the year 2020, in which we are, in order to be able to compensate for the debt you have generated in a single year, would have to pay 30 000 euros, 7500 euros per person? The imbalance is total, the lack of control of public expenditure is absolute, the lack of efficiency of income is absolute, nor do they make a redistributive policy, 87% will fall on the lower and middle classes, is so. You calculate an impact - it is true that it is also subject to uncertainties, I recognize it, Madam Vice-President - especially in new tax figures, with a very inelastic behavior of some consumptions, but, of course, you will not get a record of collection, and you know it. I'm going to ask you three questions. Since I have moderated, I aspire to you to moderate yourself and answer me. Let's get to it, see if we can all answer. The first question: When is the rebalancing plan going to take place? I have heard senior officials from the Ministry of Finance say that the rebalancing plan will come when the economy is stabilized and balanced. Then why do you want a rebalancing plan? I would like to remind you that the Governor of the Bank of Spain has already requested the rebalancing plan, the European Commission has already asked for it. Tell me when the rebalancing plan and how it will affect spending and income. Madam Vice-President - second question -: Under the current conditions, given the new restrictions caused by the confinements, would you again approve these economic forecasts, the same macroeconomic picture as today? And thirdly, tell the Spaniards - I conclude, 15 seconds, Mr President, and I have been very correct - why have you, unlike other countries in the European Union, not approved direct aid packages and tax benefits and based exclusively on two mangoes that artificially support the economy, such as ICOs and ERTEs? Ask me that question, which is the question that is being asked... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u174	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your time's up. I give the floor to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation to conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u175	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, we've got months ahead of us. Economic evolution depends not only on us, but to a large extent on what happens with our main European partners. But, beyond the figures, I would like to share two general reflections, answering your questions. In times of uncertainty - and this is my first reflection - it is essential to have clear certainties, and there are several that can guide us to the future. First, this Government is committed to dialogue, with social actors, with political parties. Secondly, the measures taken since March are being effective in protecting our productive fabric, employment and family incomes, as the data for the third quarter show. And while you seem to be asking for more measures, more public spending, which is a little surprising when you are then worried about the evolution of our deficit and our public debt in the future, let me say that the measures we have adopted are among the most effective in Europe, as all the indicators and the reactivation of the third quarter show. A third certainty is that from the Government we will continue to provide effective and agile responses to the various situations, as we have been doing since March and we have done this very week with the royal decree-law adopted yesterday, which is important for the coming weeks and months. Fourthly, the Spanish economy has an important capacity for reactivation and will grow once we leave the pandemic behind if we are able to protect our productive fabric, our employment and the incomes of families. A fifth certainty is the significant amount of investment incorporated in the General State Budgets for next year, 39 billion, which reflects the priorities of the Recovery Plan. Faced with your question about whether we have made an assessment, we have seen what levers we need for growth and, in particular, we have seen the four priorities of the Recovery Plan, which are reflected in these budgets for next year: green transition, digital transformation, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality, an issue that you yourself have mentioned. What makes me a little sad is that I talk about spending, when what I see is investment in our future, an investment that I think it is essential to guide in the light of the increase in the public debt that we are going to tackle this year and next to finance the measures taken to respond to the pandemic, especially those measures that reflect the solidarity of the Spanish society as a whole. I always say this: these are not government measures, they are measures that we fund among all taxpayers and that have to lead us to a huge responsibility for the investment that we want to tackle in the future in order to leave a better country for our children and grandchildren, who will have to continue paying this debt that we are assuming among all. And one last important element of certainty is that we have prepared this draft General State Budgets in line with the recommendations of the European Commission. Today it will draw - it seems to me that it is today - its assessment of the budget plan and I am sure it will say that our draft budgets are aligned with the extraordinary situation we have at the moment for fiscal rules. We will therefore, of course, present our medium-term fiscal consolidation plan when it is appropriate, because, as the Minister of Finance said in the budget debate, we do not at all abandon fiscal responsibility for these General State Budgets, as we have not done for this year's budgetary management, which has indeed given us a perhaps more positive result than expected with regard to tax revenue in this second part of the year. These certainties are the ones that have to guide us in the face of the future. And that brings me to my second and final reflection on the importance of trust in moving forward. We must have confidence in our strengths, in what we know how to do and in what we have done before, that it has been building a prosperous and supportive country in four decades of democracy. Confidence is the best medicine in the face of uncertainty and discouragement. We have to trust that we are a country full of resilient companies, innovative projects and creative people, with a solidarity society and a great capacity for adaptation, as we demonstrate every day. We trust that we will be able to deploy that recovery, transformation and resilience plan that makes the most of European funds, as we have done before in our history to improve the lives of our citizens. That is why let us stop raising doubts about our own capacity, that of our companies and workers, let us look realistically at our strengths and the areas in which we need to improve, let us agree on the best way to achieve our goals and let us get to work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u176	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u177	We then proceed to discuss the motions resulting from urgent appeals that were not made at yesterday's sitting. Firstly, the motion for urgent questioning by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys, concerning the regulation of housing rental prices through a future law on this matter. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u178	Thank you, President. Good morning. On 29 October, a family with three children, one of them for months, was evicted in Barcelona, in particular in Nou Barris. It was an eviction half an hour before the curfew. And it is that in the last month in Barcelona there have been more than eight hundred evictions. In fact, there is even a Twitter tag that talks about war zone. Evictions are an undesirable situation for anyone; I think we would agree here, even with the ideological differences that we have in this House, where evictions are an undesirable situation. But in a pandemic situation, in the middle of the COVID, gravity increases and evictions become a scandalous thing, a thing that puts people in a situation of absolute defencelessness. And the data from the General Council of the Judiciary are scary. In 2019 there were more than 54 000 evictions across the Spanish state, of which 68 % were rents. And these data are not the product of magic, they are the product of concrete public policies. From a judgment of the High Court of Justice of the European Union that prohibited the ground clauses, almost 50% of the discharges of mortgage execution fell considerably. Instead, from the policies that the PSOE made in 2012, policies linked to the LAU, rent evictions rose, multiplied. In fact, between 2012 and 2018 they did not stop increasing evictions and, curiously, they did not stop reducing investments in officially protected housing. Right now only 1.5% of the housing is officially protected. What's up, homes missing? No, there's renters, there's people who don't work, who live on rents. The Sareb and the investment funds accumulate a lot of housing. You know what? Most of these homes were formerly from families they have thrown away. What's the matter, missing houses? No, there's a fine left. In fact, the other day, the Barcelona Tenants Union made public that, from the fines of the Law, they asked more than 28 000 euros for trying to stop the eviction of a family that could not pay the rent of a house, curiously, of an investment fund. What's the matter, missing houses? No, there is a lack of clear and committed public policies. And today the PSOE, besides with an empty bench even if it talks about housing and evictions, votes with the right and refuses to commit to stop evictions and regulate the rent. And you know why? For two fundamental reasons. The first is territorial. They refuse to allow autonomous communities to pioneer in guaranteeing rights. And this goes through Catalonia, because we have a rent regulation law and an index of our own. And the second reason is that they refuse to extend the royal decree that stopped evictions, and this is already a matter of money. We imagine that it is a question of the minister who was here so far, Mrs Calviño, who works intensively for the merger of banks, works intensively so that the banks do not have to return the ransom money, but refuses to invest in housing. They think it's an anti-system motion. No, the truth is it's a long way from what the CUP would bring to vote. This is a motion that raises the same thing they do in Berlin, for example, which is to regulate rents and sanction speculation, or the same thing that has been done in Catalonia, which is to regulate rents. This is not a maximal motion, as I was saying. In fact, it is not close to what we mean by common sense, which is to get the house out of the private rental market. This is a motion that understands that people can't expect more - more than 800 evictions in a month -. And yesterday specifically Bildu, Esquerra and Podemos tabled an amendment to stop evictions in the context of budgets. We'll see what happens. We wish them much better luck than we do, and it is not like the job reform, which seems to take them out every time they need votes but never repeal them. We really want you to have better luck than we do, because people can't wait. And we said it last week: We are concerned that the comrades of Squerra Republicana approve these budgets with a PSOE that refuses even to vote a motion that says we have to stop evictions. And I end up with a reflection. We have had to hear systematically that the CUP votes with the right - we have heard it in the state of alarm and we have heard it in some real decrees - but today, when the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, with this title of government of progress, has the opportunity to vote a motion to stop evictions and regulate rents, not only does it not, but it aligns with the right, it aligns with the defenders of the oligarchies, the rentists and all these people who are directly responsible for this amount of evictions. In Catalonia there is already a law regulating rents, we didn't have to bring it and vote in the Congress of Deputies. But you know what we think? We believe that regulating rents is essential for the majority of working people in the Spanish State. That is why we bring it here, not because it is a Catalan problem - we already regulate rents - but because we think that the workers of the Spanish state need it. But you know what? Our thesis is confirmed that independence brings rights for all, for Catalans, Basques and Galicians, and you, as young children, prefer to guarantee the territorial unity of Spain than to guarantee rights to the working classes of the Spanish State. People can't wait. We will continue to bring rights and improvements here for all working people, because, I repeat, you are like little children and before the unity of Spain you are willing to let people go. We will continue to guarantee rights from an independent perspective. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs Vallugera Balañà spoke in defence of the amendments tabled by her groups, first of all by the Republican Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u180	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. I'll leave a little behind what I had written because there's been direct interpellation. We are grateful to the CUP for having accepted our amendments which in some way highlighted the territorial importance of which it was talking and which have been an obstacle for the PSOE to finally adopt this motion, but we would also like to recall that there is indeed important legislation in Catalonia on evictions and housing. There is Law 11/2020, there is Royal Decree 26/2020 on reactivation measures in the case of COVID, there is Decree-Law 1/2020 on urgent measures. There is an important regulatory production because the defence of the right to housing is one of the priorities of the department that pushed all these changes in Catalonia which, by the way, is of the Republican Left of Catalonia. Therefore, not so much fear that we will compromise the budgets, because, in the same way as our main interest is to guarantee the quality of life of our citizens, who has the money, comrades of the CUP, is the state and, therefore, we must do everything possible to make it return at least and partially to our people. That's the role we play in this Congress. Neither you nor we want to be here, right, but as long as we get out of here, what we're not going to do is abdicate our rights. That, on the one hand. On the other hand, the Spanish State has a serious problem and has since 1985. The other day I was commenting with someone from my team who came all from the Boyer Law, which deregulated rents, which made the indefinite rents and subrogations of tenants disappear in practice to their children and their direct relatives. I was like, "I don't remember, long ago, since 1985." But I do remember it, and that was the beginning of the end, because the Constitution, which always throws us at the head and serves to imprison us, has two aspects regarding housing: article 47 and the article referring to private property. 47 makes it very clear that we have a duty to stop speculation as it is and the other speaks of access to housing as a right; indeed, not as a fundamental right, which is how we see it, but as a right. You are therefore in a flagrant and systematic breach of this Constitution. What have they done? Converting housing into a good of speculation and indeed, when the rise of urban tourism coincides with us, the crisis of 2008, the banks rescue us, the COVID coincides with us and, finally, everything coincides with us, we have the perfect storm that systematically expels the working classes and those so far considered by them middle classes and sinks them into ruin. You are not doing what is necessary to stop this situation. Fundamental rights can be preached when those who give rise to life are settled, and having a roof to shelter is the main one, because then, yes, it guarantees health, guarantees the right to dignity, guarantees the right to the inviolability of that home that we must ensure, because much right to inviolability - which, by the way, we do not have, you know - but we do not guarantee a place that can be inviolable. In conclusion, there is an area that is acting as an unfair legislator, which is the judicial sphere, in addition to the Constitutional Court, in which I will no longer be involved. The judicial sphere, you know, has among its characteristics, indefatigability and supposedly independence, but I want to make it clear in this Congress that its resolutions also have to do with humanity in the implementation of legislation, with common sense and with the weighting of goods and interests at stake. The State, through its successive Governments, has already shown us that this weighting does not use it and that it is the weighting of the private good that marks all its policies, but in the judicial stages they must use that weighting and they must also protect against the misapplication of laws that have not been necessarily designed for that in order to prevent them from leaving people on the street. They said, it's urgent in Catalonia. In Catalonia we have legislated and we are not going to let them leave us without that legislation because it is the first way of containment...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u181	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u182	I'm done with two words. It is the first way to contain the rights of our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u183	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia In Comú, Mr Mayoral Perales has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to point out that we on this issue are not going to say that we are the creators of anything but that we are basically going to recognize the fundamental role that the popular movement plays in the articulation of the right to housing and that we and we are doing in this House are simply listening to what is being proposed by those who put the body and play the type to prevent human rights violations, which are forced evictions without housing alternatives. [[Applauds]] Many thanks to the Mortgage Affected Platform, the Llogaters Union, the tenant unions, the barrio unions, because these people are the people who have at the moment managed to get this debate going here and I think that is the first thing we would have to do in an exercise of responsibility for all the political forces. We must be able to understand that we are in a situation where there is a very powerful economic and social crisis in the midst of a health emergency and that at the moment it is an obligation of all and of all that the institutions are a useful tool for articulating the care of the whole population. It is true that public policies are necessary, but what is also being demonstrated is that the articulation of the popular movement, the articulation of community responses, is essential to ensure the care of the whole population. We and we, together with other parliamentary groups, signed an initiative proposed by the Mortgage Platform last week to call for an immediate ban on forced evictions without housing alternatives, first of all in response to the health emergency because it is a matter of public health. If people have to stay at home and if people have to wash their hands, they have to have a home and they have to have water; but if they have to have a proper temperature, there can be no light cuts. At this time we have seen some very important initiatives that would be unthinkable at other times; initiatives of protection, articulation of that social shield, but the social shield is not a finished work but it has to be a permanent process of listening to the people we are in institutions to articulate the demands of the popular movement in public policies of guaranteeing rights. The social shield has an institutional part, but who is articulating that social shield every day are the people who constitute the social movements and who defend the fundamental rights of the people. We are talking about the possibility of regulating rents and we must put an end to neoliberal Talibanism, neoliberal Talibanism, which says that we have a perfect market in housing, but so perfect that even the CNMC opens sanctioning files for price manipulation to a portal such as Idealist, which is setting prices on monopolistic practices with other economic actors. What exactly will be the point of these vultures that with a billing of 80 million have been bought by an investment fund for 1300! Of course the market is being manipulated, of course there are artificial prices, and what is needed is to hold hands with those who think that the economy has to be based on speculation. It is necessary to protect the income of work from those who speculate with an essential element for life such as housing. We are taking steps, but we need to hurry and we need to take more steps, because people are demanding it from us and because this is an essential element for people's lives. The Socimi are concerned because, after they were converted into a tax haven by Mariano Rajoy and told them that they could invest but they didn't have to pay, that they didn't have to pay, for the first time - for the first time - they're going to have to start co-responsibilitying, they're going to have to start paying. In these budgets, for the first time since Mariano Rajoy's amendment, it is stated that they have to start paying again, and we want to tell them from this rostrum that this is only the beginning and that they have to contribute, as income from work contributes, so that it is possible for people to have their social rights guaranteed. We and we are very clear that it is necessary for institutions to stand side by side with social majorities and tell the speculative capital that it has to start complying with the law and that it has to respect our people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs Bravo Barco has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u186	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Vehi, let me tell you that the Socialist Group fully agrees with your motion on the basic and essential issues, but let me also tell you that there are certain nuances that we want to incorporate into your motion, and that is why we have tabled a number of amendments. On point 2 of your motion, with regard to the debate on whether or not the Parliament of Catalonia is competent to legislate the matters regulated by Law 11/2020, on measures for the containment of rents, our amendment affects the fact that, as you know, this is a matter for the competent legal services. On item 3, which refers to your request to urge the Government to suspend evictions, as did Royal Decree 11/2020, we cannot urge the Government to do something it is already doing, since Royal Decree-Law 30/2020 has extended the suspension of evictions until 31 January under Royal Decree 11/2020, as you request in your motion. What we do wish to add with our amendment is that the Government initiate the relevant studies so that, if necessary, such suspensions of eviction can be renewed. With regard to point 4, with our amendment, we call on the Government to increase the corporation tax for the Societies, which would be applied with the adoption of the Budget Act, which I sincerely hope you will support. With regard to point 5, we share your proposal, but we have also introduced an amendment to intensify and improve the transfer of housing from Sareb to the public housing park. Finally, in paragraph 1, on the regulation of the rental market, our amendment reproduces part of the content of the preliminary draft law by the right to housing, which the Government has recently announced. In it, we address, among many other issues, the regulation of rental prices. It is a fact that the rise in rental prices has made access to housing extremely difficult for a large part of the population. In the face of this situation, we had to react and provide appropriate and balanced measures and response. The Government is already drafting this preliminary draft law on the right to housing. This is a necessary law which, among other things, includes the regulation of the prices of the market for rental of housing in those previously reduced urban areas, where prices have risen in such a way that citizens have serious difficulties in gaining access to rental housing. In order to fulfil this task, we will empower the autonomous communities and the municipalities so that, from the system of reference price index of the housing rental, developed by the Government since the 30th of June, they can establish their own price index. As you can see, we are faced with ambitious regulation, which will apply once the social partners, organisations, public administrations and the private sector are heard. This new rule will be presented by the Council of Ministers within a maximum of three months. So the solution to the rental price problem will be imminent. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to accept our amendments, which contain a large part of your requests and which extend them. In conclusion, let me repeat a few words that you said in this House on 28 October. He literally said: The government's housing policy, which I largely share, is in the right direction. And you are right, Mrs Vehi, the Government is in the right direction, and we therefore ask you to join in the task that this Government has undertaken to effectively develop the constitutional right to decent housing. I encourage you to help us move along this path and to support the preliminary draft law on the right to housing drawn up by the Government, which reflects almost all the requests of the motion that you submitted to this House today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u187	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bravo. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to announce the vote in favour of the compromise amendment that Podemos, Esquerra Republicana and the CUP have reached; in any case, I was also going to do so on the original motion of the comrades of the People's Unity Candidature. It is pertinent to support the initiative because it responds to a very basic reason - and explained it in the explanatory statement -, a reason as simple as it is necessary to protect families and vulnerable people or those with reduced incomes. And we're not talking about an ethereal entity, we're not talking about something intangible; we're talking about people with names and surnames, people who are suffering more and more. We are talking about millions of people who, to their great regret, are in an increasingly vulnerable situation and with an increasingly severe income reduction. We could talk, for example, about the workers of Sestao and Barakaldo of PCB plants belonging to ITP, who have been facing an ERE of extinction since yesterday. We could also talk about Lidia Gil, an 88-year-old neighbor of Santurtzi who has suffered a double scam. First, an unscrupulous businessman, who had very good fortune to take pictures with certain politicians for some time, the scam expropriating his house and offering him another and, in the meantime, until they build the new one, houses it in houses that are later bought by a vulture fund that wants to evict it. This to an 88-year-old lady, with the only crime of being cheated first by an entrepreneur and then by a vulture fund. We believe that it is necessary to support this initiative for things like this, for the millions of Lidias, for the millions of workers who are seeing how their lives are becoming precarious, how their lives are becoming poorer and how they are being pushed towards social exclusion. In this sense, it is logical to regulate the price of housing rental markets, as is logical for the other initiatives envisaged. It is as logical as that I have to go up this rostrum to defend the intervention of public authorities in the economy and it is certainly as strange to many of your lordships as that a leftist party does this, because they are accustomed to the imposition of the model and a neo-liberal dogma that says that public power is only necessary when it is necessary to rescue companies, never people; that public power is only necessary for entrepreneurs to become very Marxist when they squeeze all public money to save their profit accounts, but that it does not have to exist when citizens demand it. I would invite you now and here to do a collective act, which is to read together. I have had to get it pointed at a chop because I don't know, but in this country and in this Chamber, where the constitutionalists come out from under the stones - because it seems that there is a competition to see who is more constitutionalist - I would invite you all together to read article 47 of the Spanish Constitution today. I invite those who do not usually read; there are those who read every day and I also do not have to invite them to do what they usually have. Article 47 says something like this: 'All Spaniards have the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing. The public authorities shall promote the necessary conditions and lay down the relevant rules to give effect to this right, regulating the use of soil in accordance with the general interest to prevent speculation. ...'. Is there anything clearer than this and is there something that has been breached more often than this in the Spanish State when people were evicted? It seems that this is the reality we face. They used to talk about the need to wash their hands. This has been a constant for months and, it is true, you have to wash your hands for hygiene, but what the institutions do not have to do is wash your hands with this problem. Because what they have been doing for forty-two years is washing their hands when applying article 47 of the Spanish Constitution, which should guarantee decent housing for all. It is also necessary to suspend evictions because, for those who do not know it, for those who deny it, in the first half of this year of pandemic in the Spanish State - from January to June - 11,383 families have been evicted, 73% of whom were on rent. You don't have to go that far or take something that big either. In the Basque Autonomous Community, from which I come, 233 families were evicted in the first half of 2020, of which 198 were on rent. Therefore, evictions have continued to exist and that must not be done. And we must also put an end to the cut-off of electricity, electricity and electricity supplies. It is not reasonable for anyone who, while Iberdrola, Endesa, Natural Gas or any sector company are exhibiting small profits, people are cutting off light and water. The fiscal privileges of the Socimi must also be eliminated, because the Socimi are the vulture funds and are the banks; it is the vulture funds that have important people behind them, such as José María Aznar's son through Cerberus, and it is the banks, such as the merger of Sabadell and BBVA, that take 28 billion euros that they will not return and that, however, they will fire thousands of workers and close thousands of offices. In short, they could occupy time, discussions and political debates in more interesting things than in debates more false than a euro of wood on the origins of Bildu or on the evolution of Bildu. It would do a lot better for the citizenry. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u189	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u190	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Vehí, you have achieved something that I thought you weren't going to see my eyes - Oskar left it to me as they say...-: see Bildu claim the application of the Spanish Constitution from this rostrum. That's something incredible, really. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] Mrs Vehí said - and I want to contextualize her proposal - in the motion she wanted to urge the Government to do certain things under a housing law: regulate the housing rental market, suspend evictions, ban the Socimi, mobilize the Sareb portfolio and not resort to the Constitutional. Obviously, we agree, but not only on that, but on the other issues also because they are largely already applied in Euskadi. In fact, in the Basque Country it is intended to intervene in the same direction and with the same objectives and only the interested use of the Constitutional Court is what prevents, in the exercise of 148 of the Constitution and 10.41 of the Statute of Gernika, the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country can address these extremes, but with the intensity that we would like. Two days ago, the deadline for the public presentation of this preliminary draft housing law, which the Government is currently working on and which, according to him, would be of concern to certain subjects, has been completed, but I would like us to go to that, to his motion and to the subjects to be dealt with by that housing law. It says regulation of housing policies as a public service of general interest, but here we will stumble over the extension of what means regulation and the determinations on housing policy that do not allow the exercise of those policies by the autonomous communities in exercise of 148.1.3.a of the Constitution. It speaks of shielding of the social function of housing, linked, therefore, to the development of article 33.2 of the Constitution - private property - and let us hope that it will remain only in that. It speaks of promoting the development of stable public housing parks, in which the State believes that it should not intervene beyond the basic features and allow the autonomous communities to exercise their powers and to legislate on their content linked to their legal and territorial reality. It speaks of the strengthening of the right to decent housing at affordable prices, which, of course, we also understand should be the competence of the autonomous communities, or it is already, rather, and they are not recognized. It also mentions the strengthening of planning and cooperation or transfer and security. All this is very good, and it is also good that you say that you are going to intervene only on the Law of Horizontal Property, that of Urban Leases, that of Cooperatives, that of Building Ordination or the Law of Soil, although that of Cooperatives and the Law of Soil also attract some attention. But that is true, when we ask for intervention on that housing law leaves us somewhat concerned - not you but the Government - when it says that it will do so just as it has done with the state housing plans, Royal Decree 106/2018, because in that housing plan the first final provision states that it is made under article 149.113 (a) of the Constitution. Once again, we are again faced with the same obstacle, with the use of transversal titles as if they were a title conferring competence on the State, when in reality it is not, and when with this it is only intended to erode new and seriously the exclusive autonomous competences in the field of housing that empty of content. The curious thing is that you ask for that intervention, but not on these other issues. The motion does not remove us from that concern, to say the least. We believe that measures to regulate the rental market, to suspend evictions in vulnerable situations or to provide adequate public housing to meet the right to housing referred to in article 47 of the Constitution - as we knew, Mr. Matute - should be able to be exercised by those with exclusive competence in housing matters. And your proposals don't sit on that wave, to say the least. In any case, the Basque housing policy continues to rely on the public offer of rental housing by increasing the own park, by mobilizing uninhabited housing, and by continuing to propose to the competent tax bodies measures to encourage - or, where appropriate, discourage - the establishment of certain rentals that we believe should be below prices. In that context, we believe that the vision that moves in this motion is somewhat dogmatic. It's not that we disagree, it's that we don't think it matches our point of view. We will not oppose it, but it is that, as it is in its text, we will not be able to support it. We'll abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u191	Thank you very much. Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u192	Thank you, President. Good afternoon now, ladies and gentlemen. As Swedish economist Lindbeck said, apart from a bombardment, rent control is one of the most efficient techniques to destroy cities. Even Paul Krugman, nothing suspected of being liberal, has assured that limiting the price of rents reduces the quality and quantity of housing offer. Look, only 2% of internationally recognised economists believe that rent control can have a positive impact on the quantity and quality of rented housing, only 2%. In the remaining 98% I find myself and my parliamentary group, Citizens, is here. We are the ones who believe that to make the rental more affordable and more accessible price control does not work. I agree with you, ladies and gentlemen, with Mrs Vehí and Mr de Bildu, that vulnerable people must be protected - of course, they must be protected - but to control the prices of rent has just the opposite effect: it is increased, it is deteriorated and it is allocated inefficiently. If you really want cheaper and more accessible rentals, the only known way is to increase the supply of real estate. Mrs. Vehi, yes, we need houses. Let's look in our surroundings, where we have examples of all the colors that tell us that regulating the rental price has not solved the problem. Moreover, it has not only not fixed the problem, but has generated more perverse effects. You, Mrs Vehi, have said that we look at Berlin. Yes, I tell you that we are looking at Berlin, which, after establishing the limitation on rental prices, has suffered disproportionate increases of 36% since its implementation. Or let's look at Paris, where a black rental market has been institutionalized by making 20% of the offer disappear overnight. Or let's look at New York, where the lack of incentives slows down the investment in the maintenance of the affected buildings and causes the degradation of the neighbourhoods. They have already seen that their intentions do not work and in Citizens we will continue to repeat over and over again that the solution passes through a bet decided to increase the public housing park for rent. I insist, Mrs Vehí: yes, we need houses, public housing for rent. The right direction for this is public-private collaboration, not the ban that you seem to want to settle. They have often appealed to the different spokesmen who preceded me to the Constitution, but they seem to forget that the Constitution also reflects the principles of private property and the free market. It is regrettable to hear in this House that there are still renters, that is, there are citizens who, with their efforts, with the sweat of their foreheads and with their work, have bought a property with income that complements wages or pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a problem of supply - I insist - because the sectors of society with worse working conditions opt for rent compared to the purchase of housing and most of them do so in the free market. We again insist that in Citizens we bet to look more like those European countries where the social rental market works; and it works by not putting limits on the rent-free market, but by encouraging the placing on the market of a specific housing park for vulnerable groups. To this end, public-private collaboration is essential, because it would allow the construction of new housing, but also make available to the social market real estate assets that are now empty through the transfer of housing from the free market to the social market. The regulation of rental prices is simply one more step towards that liberal country project that populism pursues. So stop using noble causes to mask liberticidal policies, because freedom is not only stronger than your adversaries, but on the way you degrade the causes you claim to represent. Of course, we will vote against this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u193	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u194	Thank you, Mr. President. On 22 October the BNG signed with other political forces in this House a declaration of social initiative in favour of shielding and extending the regulation of rents. We did so because it seems unacceptable that in practice sectors of society are denied a fundamental right, such as the right to housing, and also because it is urgent to act to the extent that the social and economic crisis caused by the health emergency has aggravated an already chronic problem. It is clear that the market is not used to regulate rental prices, because they have increased exponentially in recent years, increasing their wage gap dangerously and excluding. That is why the competent public administrations must act and must do so now. The motion is in that direction and we will therefore support it and support the compromise amendment. That political forces of the right, like the People's Party, want to bring down the recent Catalan law regulating rents in the Constitutional Court deserves all our reproach, but it also portrays the People's Party. Firstly, because it is clear that it is not on the side of the social actors who face the greatest difficulties in accessing housing, but rather in front of it, and secondly, because it once again seeks to force the centralizing turn in an attempt to overthrow a law which approves a Parliament in the exercise of its powers. One reason and another is more than enough to vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u196	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to vote in favour of this proposal. There are some aspects that we obviously agree on. We absolutely agree that there should be no recourse to the Constitutional Court and that is said by someone who disagrees with the content of the law, but going to the Constitutional Court to combat it is a serious mistake. In any case, we agree that there is a problem. Of course there is a problem and denying it is not the solution. How to solve the problem? Well, I'm sure we disagree here, but I'd like to give you a thought. Is intervention in the price of rents the solution for more offer? Are you sure? Have you found out? If you regulated and set a maximum rent price, would there be more housing in access to rent? No, this is as obvious as a class of economy first, it is as obvious as to see reality and see what has happened in other countries and what is happening in Catalonia. Are there more apartments for rent since the Catalonian Parliament passed the legislation in question or are there fewer? There's less. How, then, should this be resolved? There will be different solutions. One that obviouss the motion is the public park of housing for rent, I have told you repeatedly. How should public authorities act? Well, promoting rental housing at reasonable prices. So it will be possible to influence the rental market and so it will be possible to solve the problem of housing. If I'm limited in the price of what I sell, what am I going to do? Well, I don't put it on sale, which is what's going on now because there are houses that won't go out to the rental market when the ceiling is limited. If I'm an investor who has the resources to invest in rental housing and they limit my price, am I going to invest more or am I going to invest less? Obviously, I'm going to invest less. Is this solution malicious? No, I understand that it must come out of the good intention. Does this solution have perverse effects and aggravate the problem rather than solve it? I'm sure of it. This is the reality. We should have a calm debate, calmly, with little dogmatism - on the one hand and on the other - to try to solve this problem, not only in the short term but in the medium and long term and assuming the responsibilities, each one of them. Here all the administrations - from the local government to the generalitat, the autonomous communities and the central administration - must play a mea culpa and it is that it has not acted on the public park of dwellings for rent. This is what we have to solve. We also have an opportunity with these budgets.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. Mrs De las Heras Fernández has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. We do not need a committee of experts but a simple consultation of the manual of a high school student to understand that the supply and demand for rent is a competitive market, where the price of the rented housing is only the point of balance between supply and demand. In this context, factors that alter the supply or demand interact, which in turn produces adjustments in search of a new equilibrium price or empty price, by which every product finds a buyer according to its price and neither surplus nor shortage is produced. That's what economists call the law of supply and demand. I know that for some of your ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber it is difficult to understand why they have never worked in the private sector, but a regulation by law of the price below the price of emptying or balancing produces that the supply decreases and that the demand increases, which inexorably leads us to a market of scarcity and high prices, the specialty of the social-communist governments. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, who is a doctor cum laude in Economics, knows him very well. In short, ladies and gentlemen, limiting the price would destroy the market with undesirable consequences: the withdrawal of thousands of properties from the market that would already come out with negative profitability for the tenant and the consequent shortage of housing or the conversion of their contracts to the black market with a serious increase in the price above the legal price. Of course, this House is full of economic geniuses. Berlin or Paris, which have been set here as an example, limited the rental price and the result was long waiting lines for housing and a considerable increase in the price. Mr CUP, the price has been limited in Catalonia, and what has been the consequence? That housing prices have risen. It is a pity that Mr Rufián is not in this House because yesterday he was telling us that there is no problem in Catalonia, that everyone knows Spanish, but I suppose it will be everyone but the ladies of the UPC because the initiative they bring us has lack of spelling and lack of grammar. And Mrs. ERC, I want to tell you that the sizes are medium, but the classes are medium. [[Applauds]] I already know what many geniuses are here now thinking: then we will legally force the owners of empty homes to take them out for rent under threat of expropriation. That, ladies and gentlemen, has already been done in Baleares, which we are pioneers, in fact this Government has copied to the Baleares Government. Since May 2019, by decree, the owners of empty houses have been forced to give them up for seven years to offer them for social rent. And what was the consequence? In Ibiza we still have the most expensive price in Spain. Therefore, apart from not giving one, you are afraid, ladies and gentlemen. They want to put in the same bag certain investment funds and hundreds of thousands of families who own a second home in which they used the savings of their lives. But what can we expect if the Government itself encourages occupation? Well, according to data from this same government 85% and according to large consultants 96%, the houses are in the hands of private individuals. Do not be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen, in VOX, which we represent early Spain, we understand the problem of housing and therefore propose useful measures that do not violate constitutional rights, reconciling the right to private property and the right to housing. In VOX, we could only support effective measures, such as tax benefits for owners to offer such housing, rent subsidies for families or the expansion of the official housing stock. In Spain, just to be on the average in the European Union, we would need to create two million officially protected housing units. From 2008 to 2018 the construction of official protective housing has fallen by 92 %, also the reduction of VAT or the ITP. We proposed this in the Committee on Transport on 22 September, where the whole false left voted against. We proposed that VAT should be lowered from 10 % to 4 % in the first house, among other measures, as well as the reform of the Land Law to facilitate licensing and thus expand parks, free up urban land to increase residential supply, public-private collaboration and even concessional arrangements, so that housing would go out to the market at a lower cost and then revert to the Administration. [[applause]] This creates activity, creates employment, creates housing and thus increases supply, reduces prices and administrations will have a long-term housing stock and zero cost. It is not that these proposals presented in this House are useless, but they are actually proposals aimed at destroying Spain with a suicidal policy that brings us to ruin, and VOX will not help to impoverish the Spanish people. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u200	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon, everyone. A couple of weeks ago, someone from the PAH, the Mortgage-Affected Platform, tweeted to my person that the People's Party was not in accordance with the Housing Act, when two years ago he had shown his flyer in this very rostrum and that he was in agreement with the message he was transmitting. We still agree, and I like it, and I keep it, and here it is. [[Shows a sheet of paper with advertising]] I can assure you that this is the axis of our housing policy: guaranteeing housing law in Spain. Who doesn't agree that everyone has a decent home? Who doesn't agree to end the evictions? Who doesn't agree that everyone can access a decent and affordable rental? And who doesn't agree to expand the public rental park? What happens is that in order to achieve these objectives, there are ways and ways of doing things. His perpetual examples: Berlin and Paris. Why? Why do they never tell the reality of what has happened, that prices have risen unorthodoxly? Rent control has not been invented by you, it is a star measure of any populist policy and is linked to the history of humanity, but always without results. It is more than proven that if rents are controlled, rather than the correlation between supply and demand being established, many homeowners will do what they will do, first and foremost, to remove them from the market. Secondly, old and unrenovated flats will be offered, as the owners will not have incentives to have the houses in good condition. And thirdly, companies or investors who want to build buildings or participate in these proposals that the Government incoherently proposes for public-private collaboration will flee because they will not have another. These are three reasons why the offer is diminishing and it is just what has happened in Berlin and Paris, the reference of United Podemos and of you. If the supply falls and the demand rises, the conclusion is obvious, the natural thing is that the price increases, or even worse, that the fraud increases, which is also what happened in Berlin and much more back, when Philip II established the royalty of the room that forced to house a stranger who had housing with a certain area. And what was he doing? Hide surfaces to mock the officials they supervised. That's the sad story of rent control. What must be said to Mr Iglesias, the promoter of these initiatives, is that he expands the offer, that he gives legal certainty and that he does not attack the four million saving families that have him as a complement to income and pensions. The evictions. Do you remember what the situation was like in Spain when the People's Party came to the government? When we arrived at the government in 2011 Spain was plunged into a very deep crisis, where people were evicted without mercy and also thanks to a socialist law of express eviction. Do you remember? We made a law on the protection of mortgage debtors with which we solved the problem, we made a moratorium in 2013 that we extended to 2017 and then extended this moratorium until 2020, which is the one that the government has extended again. We agree that the Government has extended the period for forecasting evictions until January 2021. It seems to us good and even to extend it further if it can, but it would be better if two things were resolved in parallel: first, the housing alternative in eviction proceedings, an issue that was already resolved in the People's Party Housing Plan, but that the Government has been responsible for nullifying these contents, and second, that the situation of the vulnerable tenant is also contemplated, which is guaranteed through the same judicial process that, although there can be no evictions if the tenant's vulnerability is justified, payment is guaranteed to the tenant, who can sometimes find himself in a worse economic situation because they are families or older persons whose only income is that rent. I also tell you that the eviction of an okupa is not eviction, it is an eviction of someone who is already enjoying something that is not his. Just as we have resorted to the Housing Emergency Measures Act in Catalonia, which legalizes the occupation, of course we are going to appeal to the Constitutional Court the Income Restraint Act because we consider it a clear attack on property law. As I told you at the beginning, we must follow these objectives, but not with measures such as those contained in this motion, which all they want is to plunge this country into hunger and misery. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u201	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehi, do you accept any of the amendments that have been tabled? - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the European Union and cooperation to prevent the grave aftermath of the image of the Kingdom of Spain in the outside world. [[Denials]] [[File number 173/000041]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u202	Finally, we turn to the motion following urgent questioning by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on actions by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation to prevent the serious deterioration of the image of the Kingdom of Spain abroad. Mrs Hoyo Juliá has the floor for the initiative and for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u203	Thank you very much, President. Spain: the oldest nation in Europe; more than 500 years of history. Spanish: almost 600 million people around the world speak it, write it and dream it. We live in a great nation, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore those who are here, apart from feeling honor and responsibility for contributing to the future of our country, should be proud of the country. Many of us do not understand that people who despise Spain and do not feel Spanish are sitting here, in this Chamber, the seat of national sovereignty, but this would give for another debate. He said that we should be proud of a country that stands out for having a language, a literature and a culture that more people fall in love with every day from hidden corners of the world. Proud of our Model Transition, proud of our constitutional system, of our Armed Forces, of our State Security Forces and Bodies, of our health system, which with great effort has managed to be world leader in transplants, of our companies, which stand out in innovation and have for years turned us into an exporting country par excellence. Proud of our diversity as a nation, which should always unite and never divide us. Proud of a country that stands out for the competitiveness and companionship of Rafa Nadal, Pau Gasol or Carolina Martín, for the talent of Antonio Banderas or Rosalía, the creativity of Ferran Adrià, for the generosity of Vicente Ferrer or Pedro Cavadas, or for the know-how of his majesty, King Philip VI. Of all of them we must be proud, just as we admire those who preceded them, representatives of the intangible wealth of Spain in the world: I speak of Sorolla, I speak of Picasso, I speak of Cervantes or I speak of García Lorca. Proud of a country whose visitors defend and define as welcoming, hospitable, friendly, attractive, sympathetic and supportive, thanks to the 47 million ambassadors who put themselves behind the bar of a bar, or who put themselves behind a counter of a hotel, or at the wheel of a taxi or a bus. And fortunately, it is not enough for a bad government to end this immense heritage, but to channel and make the most of this collective effort, leadership, ambition and strategy are needed, things that this blue bank does not have. Spain shines - always shines - but we are in a moment of total eclipse, an eclipse that, like all eclipses, will pass. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very disappointing to say this, but it is necessary to admit it, Spain has an image problem, a serious but reversible deterioration, and it has it by an eminently political factor. There is nothing more damaging to our country than the policies that this Government is implementing. For example, initiatives such as the suppression of Spanish as a vehicle language in education; a language that unites people from both hemispheres under the umbrella of a culture, of a common history that at the same time is uneven; a language used by intellectuals, scientists, international organizations; a language that represents infinite wealth and diversity and that you despise in exchange for imposing your educational dogmas. By the way, dogmas that are summarized in the following maxim: restricting the freedom of parents to decide the education of their children provided for in the Constitution. Events such as a judicial reform inspired by the philosophy of the exdictor Hugo Chávez, who intends to submit to the judiciary under the orders of the Government. Impositions such as exercising control of the information of the media, as well as of social networks, with a committee of politicians - of censorship - who establish what is the truth and what is the lie, a cut in rights and freedoms that comes from the most radical left manual. Indecent actions like going by the hand of those who continue to applaud those who killed: you have decided to choose Bildu as one of your preferred partners to integrate them in the direction of the State, and you have said so yourself. Omissions in the management of the pandemic, a complete abandonment of its obligations to the citizens, which confirms precisely the irresponsibility of this government, a government that has managed the pandemic in the worst possible way, with lies, with concealment of information, and now with no parliamentary control; a government that dares to blame the European Union for the VAT on masks, and in which we find no one minister to tell the truth; a government that intends to approve unrealistic budgets, with outdated forecasts and a single rise in taxes in the European Union. Stop, recession and crisis: this is what these budgets are going to bring, and if not, at the time. Not to mention the indicator data of this health catastrophe that will certainly remain for years in the hemerotecs, in the memory of all Spaniards and in the awareness of those who have abandoned their responsibilities to govern. In short, a Government that has decided to take a radical turn, which undermines our country's legal security, weakens the separation of powers and continues to fail to recognize that it is responsible for the spiral of reputable destruction of our country to be enlarged by strenuous steps. Is there any unbeliever in this Chamber who believes that all this is not causing a deterioration in our image? What needs to be done now, and urgently, is to work to rebuild what has been destroyed, to recover lost time and to restore the good image and prestige of the Kingdom of Spain. Whether we succeed depends not only on the future of strategic sectors for our economy such as tourism, hospitality or the ability to attract investors and generate confidence abroad, but also on a better future for the Spaniards who every morning when they wake up think about when this nightmare will end. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion calls on the Government to present a plan to restore the good image of the Kingdom of Spain in the world, a plan coordinated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with priority being given to the reconstruction of the most deteriorated areas, to which I referred earlier: health, economics and the credibility of our rule of law. And I stress the importance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs coordinating it, not the Vice-President Iglesias, who has recently been eager to usurp the functions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and could give several examples...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u204	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u205	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u206	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment put forward by the Citizens' Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u207	President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my appreciation to all the professionals who are on the front line in the fight against the pandemic, and to all those affected and their families. The gentlemen of the PP present here today a motion to alleviate the serious deterioration of the external image that Spain has had, and I tell you one thing: with all the reason of the world. Why? Because this government has indeed managed to break the prestige of Spain at a record time, from the first minute they arrived, first setting up a government with partners who are extolling regimes such as Fidel Castro's at the time or Maduro's at the moment, and this is a real democratic anomaly in Europe. But in addition, this government has made oppositions to laminating our external image, and they came to my head as I prepared this initiative the images of Minister Ábalos in that episode that could enter into the miracles of Lourdes, because of the levitation of the sátrapa Delcy Rodríguez at the airport of Madrid. It is sad because the Delcygate has reduced Spain's reliability as a compliance partner in the European Union and, in addition, as a compliance partner for sanctions imposed for human rights violations. Then came the pandemic, and there you have been some champions, but some champions in getting us off the ground. First of all, they talk about negationism, but if the first negators were you, they denied the existence of the virus; if they answered us, when we asked them, that nothing was happening here. Not only have they put the Spaniards at risk, but they have also brought our health system to the limit, which, I remind you, was one of the most famous systems in the world. Sánchez and his partners have ignored the warnings of the World Health Organization, the European Centre for Disease Control and National Security, and have lied to me and have lied to me in parliamentary office when answering questions. What happened later is known to all Spaniards: lack of transparency, lack of information, not knowing how to explain excess mortality, because yesterday I was told that they do not know what 13 000 dead are responding to. But there is more, because there is a lack of responsibility, which has led us to this second wave and has put us in the epicenter of the entire international press, and we have been given headlines that have been nailed like thorns in our external image, already very mischievous. But, far from re-thinking, this government continues to dig that reputational hole for Spain. We must not forget the reshuffle of the change in the system of election of the General Council of the Judiciary, in Poland's way. What a shame! What a shame they had to draw our attention from Brussels! But do not overlook the educational reform that we are voting for tomorrow, contrary to the Council's recommendations and the Commission's reports, which call for structural changes by broad consensus, and you have already come out on the education monitor. We have asked the European Commission a question today, and I say that we are going to do a lot more for this abuse. All this at a time when we have to prove that we are reliable partners in the European Union. Finally, I could go on with the issue of the earshake given to them by the Transparency Council on the issue of opacity. Only you can think of creating a ministry of truth, of your truth, to control the press that is not nice to you. Gentlemen of the PP, you have every reason in the world, and in the diagnosis we fully agree, but here I want to give you a consideration. We agree with the diagnosis, but pointing out the obvious failures is not enough, because they must be corrected. And I'm telling you, we're at a very, very difficult time. These gentlemen have put forward budgets with their government partners, who are people who want to break Spain, and we are at a time when we have to do containment policy, unfortunately. We are at the time of the containment policy, and it is all about not spending the funds that Europe is going to give us, which is a train that is going to pass once, in giving concessions to Bildu or in giving concessions to Republican Left. We have the hand stretched out and we are standing there like ferns, and there are ten of us, but what I'm telling you is that you are 90, and that even if we are ten, that hand is also stretched out to you to help us do that containment policy. The proposal and the amendment we have made to you are in this line, in the idea that we have to implement sensible, moderate actions that will help people right now. All the approaches we have made to them are, black-and-white on a calendar, encouraging the theme of tourism, encouraging Spain to be a residential center to attract talent, encouraging us to be able to attract foreign investment, also promoting the reputation of our health system and encouraging and working on R & D+i. We hope that we have contributed, and we know that the amendments will be accepted, and we thank you. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u208	Thank you very much. Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u209	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The truth is, they're asking for an impossible. How will this government be entrusted with selling Spain's image around the world? But if it is a government that half of its members, every time they hear the word Spain, gives them a rash; if it is a government in which half of its members think that the flag of Spain is the tricolor; if it is a government that is thought that the democracy of Venezuela is more advanced than that of Germany; so, how are they going to sell the image of Spain? If it's a government that has the pacts it has. Imagine Mr Sánchez meeting with the French President, with Macron, and he says to him, "Look, that terrorist you are going to hand over to us now for putting a bomb in Zaragoza's barracks, who had eleven murdered, six of them children, that's who you embrace and support those with whom we support the budgets, those support us. Those who embrace this are those who support us. Imagine what image of Spain. But also imagine that he tells them: we also agree with others who want to eliminate Spanish from a part of Spain. What a picture of Spain. But it is that we also do all that with those parties that aim to remove a part of Spain, with those we agree. It is impossible for this government to sell any images of Spain. That is impossible, because the Government itself is doing everything possible not to sell the image of Spain, on the contrary, to make clear that Spain is a mixture of what, that it is not a country, that it does not have its own flag, that it does not have its own language, that it does not have its own territory and that it does not have its own inhabitants, because it is the government's need to approve the budgets. And then comes the question: but do they have the need? No, because there are other vows, but he has consciously chosen those vows, and yes, there is a covenant. Why is there a pact? Because there is the signed role, because we have the signed role, because the Foral Community of Navarre is part of Spain, because the Socialist Party in Navarre is the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, and because Bildu is Bildu in the Foral Community of Navarre and elsewhere and is the same Bildu here, and there is the signed role. Therefore, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party has a pact signed with Bildu, for some budgets, and they do so because they want to, because we offered him the free votes so he doesn't have to deal with Bildu. And what did they say? They despised him. But I'll tell you more. They have signed that no amendment other than their own will be adopted. This morning President Sánchez was saying: let's sum up, let's see the amendments... No, in the Foral Community of Navarre your party with Bildu has said that no amendments other than theirs will be adopted. I mean, they're scorning us. Therefore, to all those socialists in good faith who say that we have left no other remedy, no, there is the signed agreement. The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party deals with Bildu because it wants to. Is that an indignity? Yeah. Did Bildu give up ETA? No, no, Do you still support him? Yeah. Are they still getting the prisoners? Yeah. Are you going to continue to receive prisoners in the future? Yeah. And when it is said: but if Bildu is not ETA, I will tell you that I have shared a seat with the murderer of the brother of the deputy of the Teresa People's Party, I have shared a seat with his killer, and of course he was a parliamentarian, because he presented himself on an electoral list. You can imagine. Therefore, tell the milongas to others, but here we all know where we are, and it is impossible for the Spanish Socialist Workers Party to sell the image of Spain when it is negotiating with those who continue to embrace Josu Ternera. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u210	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u211	Thank you, Mr. President. The People's Party is concerned about the image of Spain abroad, and it has reason to do so. It is true that this image is not at all positive. The Spanish brand is today an absolutely devalued value, but believe me that, despite the poor management of the health emergency by this government, that is not the main reason for the external discredit of the Spanish regime. On the contrary, you have contributed, and a lot, to this, as the whole of the forces that, against any minimum democratic criteria, are sacrificing a Constitution and a monarchy that make waters everywhere. Because the bad image of Spain has much more to do with, than with the management of the pandemic, with a corrupt and anachronistic monarchy, with the violation of public rights and freedoms, with the persecution of political dissent, with the denial of the rights of nations, with the policies that seek the linguistic assimilation and the imposition of Spanish to which we speak other languages - as we were able to see here yesterday - with the imprisonment of singers for the lyrics of their songs or with the imprisonment of political leaders for allowing people to exercise their right to vote, with absolutely aberrant machist sentences, with the policies of social cuts that generate poverty and inequality, etc. Finally, changing the external image of the Spanish State is achieved with rights, with well-being and above all with democracy, something of which you are really scarce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u212	Thank you very much. Mrs Borràs Castanyer, you have the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Concha.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let's give them a headline. Unprecedented, the PP agrees with what we have been saying for a long time from Junts per Catalunya. And don't anybody get nervous, 'cause they just give us a little reason. They coincide with us when they say that the image of the Kingdom of Spain has suffered a huge deterioration, but such an affirmation does not have much merit, because it simply solemnizes evidence. In fact, they have been cut short in the diagnosis, because they only admit that the image of Spain has been damaged during the last few months, and they have been cut short because for years now the prestige of their kingdom has been falling to bits, and is doing so on its own merits. The very creation of inventions such as Spain or global Spain already shows that the evil comes from afar, and that it has been a long time since they decided to invest a money to try to wash the image of the Spanish State before the public opinion of Europe and the world. But it is such the magnitude of the stump, that it would take much more than an integral plan, like the one you propose, to restore the reputation of Spain: submarines that do not float and sink; satellites that are lost; emerits that run away. Really, day yes and day too, you have reason to worry. They consider the deterioration to be profound, but recent it is not. In fact, they attribute it to the management of the current government and speak as if the image of the coups of 1 October, the grotesque interviews of Spanish ministers on prestigious international televisions, the ridiculous judicial with Euroorders of removal and putting or with the non respect for the immunity of Europarliamentarians had nothing to do with the image of Spain. Tell me what you presume and I will tell you what you lack; for Spain has for years presumed to be a consolidated democracy. So it's no coincidence that Europe has been reading their books for so long, what's surprising is that they're surprised. When we read that the PP wants to restore the good name of the kingdom of Spain, we wonder what good name they refer to. The one from a state that has political prisoners? To the ridiculous accumulating in European justice? To a State that repeatedly ignores the United Nations or Amnesty International, calling for the freedom of Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart? Do you think the shapes and background of the Emeritus King's escape give you a good image? That the political marketing with the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary plays in favor of its prestige? Is it going to be praiseworthy to be late and wrong in the fight against the pandemic? Or is it going to be that an infrastructure such as the Mediterranean corridor, which could increase the state's GDP by 2.2%, and 15 000 new jobs and double exports, will be neglected? Because all this does deserve the hashtag #This is the real Spain. Restoring the bad image of Spain seems impossible to us, but if you want to try, do not waste time or waste the money of the citizens on integral plans that are completely useless. Amnesty political prisoners, cease repression, allow the creation of commissions of inquiry into the Crown or the attacks of 17 August, because that would be very good for the democratic image of the Spanish State. It's over, Mr. President. Once they take economic measures to support SMEs and self-employed people, resolve the poor functioning of the ERTs and ask for the share of European funds, instead of accepting only subsidies. In short, the image of Spain does not need...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u214	Your time is up. He's over it a lot. Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u215	I cannot begin in any other way than showing all my solidarity support for the Saharan people. [[Applauds]] After decades of unresolved conflict of self-determination, after decades of maintaining a status quo that only favors the Moroccan occupation, Morocco has violated the ceasefire with its aggression in Guerguerat. The international community must act, we must respond, always respecting the self-determination of Western Sahara and returning to the ceasefire before it is too late. [[Applauds]] You see, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, as, according to his police, the independenceists are now close friends of the Russians, they will allow me to make a metaphor about the image of the Spanish State abroad with a matrioska, with a Russian doll. As much as you put a thousand hollow dolls to cover the one doll, as much as you try to cover the outside how your Kingdom of Spain works, you will not be able to remove the only doll, you will not be able to erase the pillars of your kingdom and its way of functioning. Stop manipulating everything around them, promote the independence of the media and, if it costs them so much, at least conceal it. Do not expect the international community and its media to cover up their conflicts. Instead of this, resleep them. If you worry more about discrediting and persecuting your political rivals using the state's sewers than about cleaning up institutions and acting transparently, it is logical that you then have to run to cover all your democratic and social deficits, be the PSOE and Podemos in the government or be the People's Party; this goes far beyond the management of the pandemic, and you know it. See you, Politico, in the United States. [[Shows a press clipping]] If you want to avoid scandals in the media, respond to corruption. BBC News, UK. [[Shows a press clipping]] If they really want to prevent news like this from coming out in the media, perhaps what they should think about is that republics are needed to end this corrupt and inherited monarchy of Francoism. Express, Portugal. [[Shows a press clipping]] If they end the repression in Catalonia and allow us to exercise once and for all the right to self-determination, then, of course, there will be no more news like this in the foreign media. Euronews, a European channel. [[Shows a press clipping]] If they repeal labour reform and guarantee real opportunities for all young people, then perhaps we will not be the leaders in youth unemployment in Europe. The Guardian, UK. [[Shows a press clipping]] If you repeal the Aliens Act and defend the rights of migrants effectively, then perhaps you will not have consequences like this in the media. And we could continue with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights that have discredited you on various occasions or with the 275 recommendations of the universal periodic review or with the job insecurity rankings of the Spanish State, but I am sorry to inform you all that no marketing agency, has the resources it has, will be able to cover all your problems. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u216	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Pisarello Prados has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Podemos-In Communal Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u217	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the truth is that we have had this debate on the image of Spain in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is a debate in which we must be self-demanding in a context where we are in a pandemic, when there are many people who are having a bad time, but it always draws my attention to the degree of amnesia and incongruity in all of this. Because you may have forgotten, Your Honor, but I can remind you. What really shocked Europe until now was that in Spain there was a political party and a government that had been condemned by the courts, and that had led Spain to the podium of the countries of the European Union in perception of corruption. What really shocked Europe was that we had a government here that, in an emergency, which was already very serious in a pre-pandemic context, priority would have been given to cutting public services, demolishing public health, lowering taxes to the richest, if not granting them tax amnesties. That is what has already begun to damage the image of Spain. Obviously, in a context like we are now, you could have rectified and you could have decided that the pandemic was a time to grab your shoulder, and to approach the positions of some civilized right-wings in Europe, German or Portuguese, but you did not. I still remember what happened a few weeks ago - or a few months ago - when we had to position ourselves in Europe on the recovery funds, which were absolutely important. You did not stand at that time on the side of the people who were worst going through it in Spain, the people of Vallecas, the people of Seville, the people of Nou Barris; you stood on the side of the Dutch party, the party of austerity, the party of cuts, who wanted to return to the recipes of the previous crisis. That's where they really were. Today his obsession - very unpatriotic, by the way - remains the same, that is, to go through the embassies and international forums to do everything possible to make the funds, which are more necessary than ever here today, arrive late or not arrive in adequate conditions. Look, I'm not going to deny that we would like to give this crisis a more social and redistributive response than we are giving, but, despite that, we came out with a contained position, we proposed a pact, we proposed a union-guild that would solve the great scientific, ecological and social challenges of the 21st century, which could be supported by progressive people and by left-wing people, but which could also be supported by modern conservative people. And we're not here, Your Honor, either in Brussels or here. Mr. Casado came here on his most moderate day to quote that great 'Spanish' who was Friedrich Hayek who, as we all know, was an admirer of Mr. Pinochet and of Salazar's dictatorship. That was the recipe. He then quoted Adam Smith, which is more interesting, but I think that Adam Smith would have been shocked if he were here today and saw that you are unable to propose something that looks, for example, to tax escalation to the rentists - I am not even going to say to the rentists, but to the great speculators - or that you are unable to defend as an internal and external policy the fight against monopolies and oligopolies. You really didn't do that. Ladies and gentlemen, instructing Albert Rivera to work to protect the great speculators does not benefit the image of Spain. Allowing oneself to be dragged by an ultra-right in which select students of psychotic leaders such as Bolsonaro or Trump are declared to be declared to be students is not to improve the image of Spain. Nor is it, Your Honor, to have acted from the government as if they were the Stasi and were in that famous film The Life of Others and to use state and parastatal apparatus for illegal espionage and to pursue not only members of his party, but opponents of other political parties. So, ladies and gentlemen, what I can tell you at this point is that we are not going to meet here. We are a republican force; we are because we believe that this country is mostly republican and we are going to work for an internal and external policy that is republican, democratic, plurinational, pacifist, autonomous and defender - and I will tell you very clearly - of what the great Miguel de Cervantes put in the mouth of El Quixote: the great Cervantine ideal of freedom, equality and bread for all, as the greatest of the gifts that any man and woman can enjoy. That and not accompany you in the dystopia of privilege and submissive defense always of the interests of the most powerful. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u218	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez del Real has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u219	Mr. Pisarello, you have amnesia, which ripped a Spanish flag off a balcony. We don't forget it. [[Applauds]] Spain is much more than a brand. Spain is much more even than its symbols. Spain is even much more than those who try to destroy it. But Spain does have an image and an image to look after. Those who work in communication know that we have to believe, be able - to have resources - and do. And, if you don't do it, if you don't do it, it happens to you as it has happened to Spain so many times in its history: they make you the story, they make you the Black Legend. And then comes the sadness of 1898 and the gnashing of teeth that we are paying century after century the Spaniards. So, yes, we have to get out there to tell our truth; not the legend, but the truth of Spain. Because those who attack Spain historically and those who continue to attack it today, even sitting here at the Bureau of Congress - yes, Mr Pisarello, I speak of you, while you are there distracted - have continued to attack Spain curiously with the money of the Spaniards. Yes, Mr. Independence, you have used the money of all the Spaniards to attack Spain. Don't take it out of your chest that this has come out by chance. You have paid millions, millions of euros to lobbies and institutional relations companies to attack Spain, and we have all paid it. In 2017, a Spanishman was travelling to Brussels and filmed a video in front of a false Catalan embassy, very angry, very angry. That little Spaniard said that the Spaniards are assholes - I quote - because we were paying for the attack on Spain. Well, that little Spaniard, now he's a congressman and here he's accompanied by another fifty-one Spaniards. Yeah, that little Spanish guy on foot was me. And we decided to get into politics to keep you from spending Spain's money on attacking Spain. That's it! And quoting some movie, what has bipartisanship done for us all these years? What have you, center gentlemen or gentlemen done - I no longer know how to qualify you - social Bildu etarras? [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the PP, at least you put some intention, I recognize it. You created that Spanish brand thing, but you forgot to put the money in it. There had to be groups of volunteers, even voluntary companies, who believed in Spain spent their time and effort - to be thankful - to defend Spain abroad. But, of course, it's a failed act, they couldn't. What has PSOE bipartisanship done for us? They took and the first thing they did, as they always do, was put in budget to hire their own, change their name and spend 300 000 or 500 000, because we still don't know, to change the logo. Congratulations. Now, that's right, they put the writer of the book that Mr. Pedro Sánchez later signed; there, to put his own to defend the brand Spain. You don't know any more about brand management or communication, but you don't know any sports experience either, and there you have it, doing sports like crazy. So what has bipartisanism done for us defending Spain? For bipartisanism has done this: Nothing. Now what do we have to do or what do they tell us they're going to do? In the General Budgets of the State they say that they will - he puts it - promote the image and international reputation of Spain. Strategic objective: 750 content on the web, 1200 actions on social networks in a year. Let's see, I'm not an expert on social media, but we do that one afternoon between Rufián, Zaragoza and me. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] That is, it will cost us 2.3 million euros, 2.3 million euros, only in salaries paid in Spain and oriented to propaganda in Spain. Because, yes, Mr.Iván Redondo will soon come into action to turn that into an attempt to vote for you. That supposes - I calculate it very quickly - paying them well, as you pay them, about thirteen or fourteen people for tweet. I repeat, even the gentlemen we are on Twitter we offer for free - we are already charging - to do so. So - I only have one minute left - what do we have to do? It is summed up very simply, I told you at first: You have to believe, you have to power and you have to do it. You have to believe in Spain. Those who do not believe in Spain, look, we do not count on you, but those who do believe in Spain we begin to believe in the Spanish. We have the best entrepreneurs, we have the best small and large companies competing, we have the best professionals even abroad, but we are also lucky that we have the best agencies, the best advertisers and the best creatives. The awards say so. Let's use them. Besides, we have the best team; I'd already like a national picker to put goals out there, plus 6-0, have that team and have those people out there. We have to do this. So - and I finish, Mr President - we have to go now. Of course, we will support this motion so that the Government can tell us what it is going to do beyond one afternoon's tweets. The world must be told that Spain lives, despite what we are living with the COVID and the record of the dead; Spain remains alive, even if they want to kill some. Because remember those who want to kill Spain - and here I end - that between the rubble and the dead there will always be a living language to say that Spain does not surrender. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u220	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Fernández Casaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u221	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, that the People's Party presents in this House a motion for the restoration of Spain's image abroad, I do not know if it is a joke, but serious and coherent is not. The image of Spain is solid, despite its efforts to weaken it. This is said by the Socialist Group, but it is also said by the main international bodies, the countries of our environment, and it is said by reputed reports, such as the last Nation Brands Index, which places us in the eleventh place among the most reputable countries, and it is said by millions of tourists who visit us every year and who will return as soon as the health crisis that maintains restrictions on mobility in most countries of the world is overcome. Mrs Hoyo, the reputation of our country is built by our health personnel, who have remained at the foot of the canyon despite the cuts in the public health policies of the governments of the People's Party; they build it essential workers, companies, people dedicated to research, our public services, which are an example of delivery, and also anonymous citizenship, which every day acts with exemplaryness and responsibility and shows us its commitment. Spain's image is today more than ever that of a country that leads the European Union in social progress, which adopts a law on climate change, which takes feminism as a flag, which drives education as a motor of change and rescues the policy of cooperation from the place of marginality to which the People's Party has relegated, despite being one of our most valued signs of identity abroad. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, you make exceptional genius and echo residual opinions to generate new mantras that reinforce you in your compulsive obsession with systematic attack on the Government. Honestly, do you think it's very patriotic to insinuate that Spain is a failed state? The whole world has had to face a global pandemic, our country also had a productive system based on tourism and the services sector that has made us doubly vulnerable to the consequences of the pandemic's containment measures. This is not attributable to the coalition government. Look, we have seven long years of People's Party governments ahead of us, but what is really attributable to the government is the acceleration of an ambitious process of modernising our economy as reflected in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which is today in the European forums a benchmark in the implementation of the development axes that Europe determines and valued very positively by our country's main social actors. Mrs Hoyo, despite the boycott orchestrated by the People's Party - and I know it weighs them - the leadership of the President of the Government in the negotiation process was key to the approval of European funds that are very much needed for our country today. Faced with the role of his party in 2011 - which condemned Spain to austerity, to social fragmentation, to the disappearance of the main international forums, to invisibility in Europe - this government has in record time regained international consideration, even though it had to build on its ashes. In short, the image of Spain is not only what the Government does, it is also what the opposition does. That is why I am surprised that you want to talk about Spain's reputation when you walk around Brussels questioning Spain's respect for the rule of law, adding that Spain does not deserve to be a beneficiary of recovery funds. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to contribute to the prestige of Spain, what you need to do is to focus on building consensus instead of visiting embassies asking the European Union not to give us the funds we need so much. Stop questioning the credibility of our rule of law while it is you who repeatedly fail to comply with the constitutional pact by maintaining a blockade of the renewal of the constitutional organs, denying or failing to assume political pluralism and questioning the democratic legitimacy expressed by Spanish citizens in the ballot box. At this moment the best thing for the consolidation and strengthening of our image abroad is to continue to make progress in the modernization of our economy, in the digital advance, in the social and territorial question, in the ecological transition, in the reindustrialization plan. This involves having public accounts adapted to the reality that we face and that are endorsed by Europe. Let yourself be so appalled and be consistent in dedicating your efforts to progress, although at this point, if we are clear, you are not very willing to row for Spain to come out in the best way of the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I told you before that the image of Spain is also what your opposition does. Look, your contribution to the image of Spain is that we are known for having the most unfair opposition in Europe. This is what the Financial Times, The New York Times, Le Monde says. [[Applauds]] I said at the beginning of my speech that in politics we must show seriousness and consistency and that the People's Party should bring this motion to this House is still a staging because in the worst crisis in our recent history the worst image of Spain is being given by you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u222	Thank you so much. Mrs Hoyo, do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u223	Yes, we accept the Citizens' amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118.u224	Thank you so much. The meeting was suspended. It was two and fifteen minutes in the afternoon. http://www.congreso.es Calle Floridablanca, s/n. 28071 Madrid
