ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u1	Very good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and happy year to all and everyone. The meeting was called to order.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u2	As a matter prior to the agenda, we will proceed to the second appeal for the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution of Mr Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol, who did not lend it at the previous plenary session of the House. I ask Don Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u3	Yes, with the venia, president, and with the permission of the Central Electoral Board, so that this House can continue to ensure, as so far, family reconciliation... [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Strong protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u5	[[Finish your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u6	Don Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has acquired the full status of MP. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: No!-Strong protests.- Mrs Álvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u7	Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u8	Thank you, Madam President. On the basis of Rule 72.2 of the Rules of Procedure, my group calls for the Presidency or the Secretariat of this House to read the agreement between Squerra Republicana de Catalunya and the Socialist Party to set up a table between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generalitat de Catalunya for the resolution of the political conflict. It seems to us to be of absolute relevance to this debate. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u9	Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, the text you mention is publicly known throughout the world and therefore does not proceed with your reading in this parliamentary procedure. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Nooo!]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u10	Sole item on the agenda. Discussion on the nomination of the candidate for the Presidency of the Government. The first secretary of the House read out the proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of the Government. Mr. Secretary first.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u11	Thank you, President. In accordance with article 99.1 of the Constitution, after consultations with the representatives appointed by the political groups with parliamentary representation, I have come to propose to the most excellent Mr. Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón as a candidate for the Presidency of the Government. What I communicate to your excellence so that the Congress of Deputies can be formulated the timely proposal. Palacio de la Zarzuela, 11 December 2019. Philip, king. The President of the Congress of Deputies, Mertixell Batet Lamaña.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary first. Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, proposed candidate for the Presidency of the Government, has the floor. [[Applause from the Socialist Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the members of the Government in office, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. It's not going to break Spain, it's not going to break the Constitution. [[Rumors]] What will be broken here is the blockade on the progressive government democratically elected by the Spanish. [[Applause from the Socialist Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the members of the Government in office, on the ground]] Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this Congress of Deputies under Article 99 of our Constitution in order to obtain the majority confidence of this House in order to be able to be appointed President of the Government. Before I expose the government program, I want to make some start-up reflections. One, logically of a personal nature, is the honour it represents for me as a Democrat, as a citizen and as a Spaniard to have the opportunity to gain the confidence of the House and also to be able to address the nation from this rostrum. Another is of a political nature, directly linked to what this moment represents, and it is the starting point of a new time in Spain, in which everyone here is called to participate. Together with these two feelings, let me also convey sincere thanks. First of all, the citizens as a whole for their patience and their commitment to democracy. The data on participation in all the elections that have taken place in the past year attest to this, show the strength of Spanish democracy. And, secondly, a sincere and profound thanks to my party, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Thank you comrades and companions for the enormous amount of confidence you have in me. [[Applauds]] It is an honour for me to represent in your name a political force that also represents the living history of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, on 10 November the Spanish went back to the polls and pointed out a clear preference: they placed the Socialist Party as the first force, a long distance from the next. It was not much less the first time they were called to the polls last year. They have voted five times in 2019 and, in the five elections, the Socialist Party has obtained a clear majority in relation to the second political force. Not only is the PSOE the most voted force and, therefore, has a greater number of representatives both in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate. With the results of the last elections, and once the position of each formation was expressed, there was no other parliamentary majority like the one we are going to present today, although we have already seen that there can be a sufficient blocking majority to prevent any government from forming. [[a Member of Parliament: Lie!]] But the elections also yielded, ladies and gentlemen, another outstanding result, and it is that the Spanish and Spanish, by electing their representatives, distributed their electoral preferences among nineteen different political forces, the largest number of parties represented in the Lower House since the beginning of our democracy. I want to say this and underline it, because that is the will of the Spanish and Spanish, and it is up to us to translate it into government, the three hundred and fifty Members who are here, all of us. I insist that it is not we who have decided to form this House, it has been, with their vote, the Spanish, and we have to do what we have to do in these four days of investiture is to translate their will into government and not into blockage. Our Constitution assigns to the General Courts the function of representing the citizenry, because it is in it that the sovereignty of the nation resides, but also demands of them something more, the mission of forming a Government that exercises the executive function and directs the internal policy and foreign policy of our nation. There is no government without Parliament, but neither can there be a Parliament that functions indefinitely without Government. To function fully, the mechanism of democracy needs all its pieces. For that reason, ladies and gentlemen, I accepted the task of the head of State and for that reason I am appearing before you today in the hope of obtaining the majority confidence of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, I represent a party that has a hundred and forty years of life. He was born when in Spain he was only entitled to vote 3% of the population because, in order to exercise the right to vote, he was required, first, to be a man and, secondly, to be a capable person. In the elections that took place a hundred and forty years ago, the Socialist Party, logically, did not obtain any representative, nor one, and yet a century later, when democracy was restored, it has ruled Spain in more than half of the last four decades. When a party or any other human institution, ladies and gentlemen, lasts so long over time it usually means two things. First of all, it means that its existence sinks its roots into the deep feelings and aspirations of society, which is not an accident, which is not a product of the passing circumstances, but rather gives voice to the wishes of millions and millions of Spaniards and Spaniards. But this longevity of the Socialist Party also has a second meaning. The party on whose behalf I speak is an institution that has since its inception surpassed the most diverse situations, propitious and also adverse: it was born without any other support than the impulse of two dozen workers and professionals who contributed 50 cents of their wages for their support; it has preached in the desert to extend its organization and influence to all corners of our country; it has survived persecution and exile. It's a game that doesn't give up, that doesn't fail. It is a party that has experienced all kinds of situations and has faced them all in a spirit of overcoming. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] The PSOE is, as its acronyms say, ladies and gentlemen, and it believes its history, a Spanish party, formed by compatriots. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Yeah. I repeat, a Spanish party, formed by compatriots, which, with success and mistakes, ladies and gentlemen, has contributed and contributes to improving the life of our society. [[rumors]] And they are very seriously mistaken who from the bench of the right question the commitment of the left to Spain. That is why I ask everyone here, from this rostrum, for the same respect they receive from us, because respect for plurality is also the essential mechanism of democracy, and the Socialist Party has represented it throughout its history, which is the history of Spain. [[rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, the sovereign will of the Spaniards has drawn a highly fragmented political map, which makes the configuration of the majorities and, therefore, also the constitution of the government a challenge, even with the taunts that we are seeing in the last few hours on the right side of the bench. [[Protests]] There are two ways to deal with this situation: one is the comfortable one, which is to take refuge in the purity of one's own beliefs, to inhibit oneself, to avoid taking any risks and to expect others to contribute the solution. It is not ours, it is not the one that corresponds to our history, nor to our culture. Our choice is to take the parliamentary reality out of the ballot box and build a solution with it. That was our commitment after the elections on 10 November: to achieve the best solution that can be achieved and achieved under the circumstances of here and now, and in accordance with the progressive principles that characterize a progressive formation such as the Socialist Party. In this we have made our commitment, ladies and gentlemen, first - as we said before the elections on 10 November - within forty-eight hours we have reached a pre-agreement to form a progressive coalition with UN Podemos, to whom I am grateful for your support. It is true that we would have preferred to form a socialist government composed of socialists and with the contribution of recognized independents of prestige in the government. It is also true that we opened ourselves in July to a coalition government with the Podemos; and, finally, it is true that this negotiation did not succeed, as everyone knows. But it's hardly worth pointing out the blame. It is more useful to try again on new bases to ensure the two conditions that made understanding difficult months ago: the principle of cohesion and the principle of suitability. That's because that's what the Spanish and Spanish asked us on November 10th. We did that, and we agreed what had not been possible months earlier: to unite our forces in a progressive coalition that will function as a united government, for - and I quote the agreement - 'will be governed by the principles of cohesion, loyalty and government solidarity, as well as by the adequacy of the performance of the functions.' [[A Member of Parliament: Ah, very well! What about that?-Rumors]] From there, ladies and gentlemen, what we have done has been to work to add to this agreement the forces of other formations, until we reach the critical figure that allows the constitution of a government to run this legislature. And in that situation, ladies and gentlemen, I appear before you to ask for your support. The Spanish have voted in one sense or another, that is more than obvious, because of the plural configuration of this House; but they have voted Government, ladies and gentlemen; they have not voted blockade, they have not voted paralysis; and our obligation is to seek the best solution that can be achieved here and now. All solutions, ladies and gentlemen, are respectable. It's not the lack of a solution. That is why I wish to record my regret at the conduct of the forces of the democratic right by refusing to make the least contribution to the governability of Spain. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Even less so, ladies and gentlemen, it is understood that they wave the worst omens about the future of Spain and, at the same time, refuse to avoid them. [[rumors]] I do not share or remotely share your terrors, ladies and gentlemen, but if they are sensed and not pretended, I cannot understand how they may not move a finger to prevent it from happening. [[Rumors]] At the end of this inaugural session there will be one vote, ladies and gentlemen, and that vote will express three positions. On the one hand, we will see Spain moving forward, which transcends its differences and unites itself to advance by forming a coalition of progress, dialogue and social justice; on the other hand, those who do not want to join that advance, but at least do not prevent it with their abstention; and, on the other hand, a curious coalition, ladies and gentlemen, in which they appear from the far right, the right, to those who call themselves anti-systems, and also the most intransigent nationalisms of one sign or another. [[Rumors]] In short, it is Spain that blocks without alternative, without solution, without horizon, without answer, just no. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in summary, a number of conclusions can be drawn from the map of this Parliament which I would like to share with you. The first, that the Spaniards - and I remember it to the bench of the right, because it seems to forget it - have pointed out to the Socialist Party as the first force not once but five times in 2019 and, therefore, generally what they want is a progressive government led by the Socialist Party. Secondly, the Spanish and Spanish have distributed their votes in a balanced manner and have also given the right-wings significant representation. They therefore want broad, cross-cutting agreements that break the sterile logic of the blocs and offer the future of concord that Spain needs and demands. And, third, that the Spaniards have expanded their representation in a good number of formations of territorial character, therefore, they want us to overcome the territorial tensions that drags our country and in particular to overcome the political conflict that has been eroding Catalonia and disturbing relations between Catalonia and Spain for too long. [[Rumors]] And precisely these will be the objectives of the progressive coalition, ladies and gentlemen: to govern with a progressive gaze, to reach broad and transversal agreements on State affairs and to reduce through politics and dialogue territorial tension and to begin to overcome the Catalan political dispute. Ladies and gentlemen, I stand before this House, therefore, with a progressive plan of government that combines the will to move forward of the Socialist Party and the United Nations We can, but which is open to the collaboration of all those parliamentary forces who pledge a solution of progress to the challenges that we as a society face. Let me describe the progressive coalition that I intend to lead, first of all, by its values, secondly, by its attitude and, thirdly, by its method, to set out its government programme at a later stage. Let's start with their values: what are the values that will sustain this progressive coalition. First of all, social justice, the purpose of cutting the tearing inequalities that suffer much of our society. In Spain there are more than 12 million people, that is, one quarter of our compatriots, who are at risk of poverty or social exclusion; the unemployment rate is too high, 13.92% according to the latest data from the EPA, and among the employees there are workers who endure job insecurity, especially young people, and even poverty: 1 in 8 workers is at risk of poverty, or I would say better workers because they are mostly women. In Spain, child poverty remains among the highest in Europe, affecting almost 3 out of 10 children, i.e. more than 2 million children in Spain. We support one of the lowest birth rates in Europe and the lowest since statistics are recorded in Spain. This reflects several things, but above all and above all the difficulties of young people in emancipating themselves, in finding a job that is not precarious and in developing a personal life project. I give you a data that seems to me to be sufficiently illustrative of the reality that our young people are living: only nineteen out of every hundred young people under twenty-nine years of age, being more precise, have emancipated. [[Rumors]] Extreme inequality is, ladies and gentlemen, corrosive for coexistence and also for progress, and that reduction of inequality can be achieved through predisposition mechanisms, that is, by raising the lowest income - and we will do so - and can also be achieved through redistribution, that is, through fiscal justice and also through the consequent social services, and we will also do so from the progressive coalition. Secondly, along with social justice, a progressive project is also defined by the defence of community services, the defence of public services. We defend and defend the social market economy, as stipulated in our Constitution. We believe that the market is essential for the generation of social wealth and prosperity and we understand that the persecution of personal interest is part of human nature and is a powerful stimulus also for prosperity, but there are other impulses that are also part of human nature, such as generosity, solidarity and empathy. That is why we believe in a social market economy, but we do not believe in a market society, because goods such as health, such as education, such as security, such as the future and the lives, ultimately, of people cannot be delivered to the market. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as much as we believe in private initiative, we also believe in universal public services. I am talking, for example, about education, and I am talking, for example, about health, which in the last decade has suffered cuts that have resulted in a deterioration that is reflected, for example, in the increase in waiting lists, in co-payments or in the outsourcing of public services. [[Rumors]] I am also talking about dependency services, after eight years since the entry into force of the law and which has suffered since the governments of the previous Conservative Administration, with a decrease in public expenditure, ladies and gentlemen, of €46 billion. We are a community, not a group of people; in that is true patriotism, ladies and gentlemen, in the recognition of a common good and not only in the identification with the symbols of all. The neoliberal conception for which society does not exist and which only takes into account individuals and families is strongly false. We exist, ladies and gentlemen, as a community and in the public is where we recognize ourselves, because it is the public that unites us, links us and represents us as a society. It is true that symbols are important to human beings but they are important precisely because of what they symbolize. Spain for us is the public education of our children, it is the public pensions of our elderly, it is the public health care of our families. Spain is the help of our neighbours in disasters; it is the comfort of our movements, the security in our streets. Spain is also the taxes that we pay in solidarity to pay for all this. Money isn't always better in the pocket of someone who owns a fortune, as we've been hearing lately. Money is often better, for example, in public schools and libraries that make us wiser, in hospitals that keep us healthier, in the ways they communicate to us, in pensions that protect our old age, in police stations and in courts that guarantee rights and freedoms. [[Applauds]] And those who invoke patriotism every minute should pay more attention to public goods, which define us and represent us as a society. That is patriotism and that is social patriotism that recognizes the progressive coalition that I want to lead and that shares, I am convinced, the vast majority of our country. Thirdly, the progressive coalition project is inextricably linked to freedom. Freedom from arbitrary intrusion by public institutions. Freedom also in the face of interested interference from those who have the most power. Freedom not to make our whim, but not to be subjected to anyone's whim. Freedom to fully dispose of one's own destiny, to express oneself, to associate oneself, to live life according to one's own values and beliefs. A notion of freedom incompatible with the law gags, for example, or for the purpose of illegalizing organizations, if they do not think as one or close the media. [[applause]] A freedom to live fully and to administer with dignity the end of one's life, a freedom to be realized without discrimination, and even less violence, because of being a woman. A freedom not to endure persecution or delay for sexual orientation. A freedom not to be relegated by race or despised by provenance. Full freedom, incompatible with sexism, homophobia, xenophobia or racism. A full and courageous notion of freedom because there has never been anything as opposed to bravery as attacking women or minors, nor anything less noble than persecuting different people. A notion of freedom that is inspired by humanism, by the defence of the value of human life and that does not stop at our borders but is projected to help those who need the help of Spain and Europe. It is true that we should not, ladies and gentlemen, be devoting a single minute to these matters, because for decades social goods have been conquered and collectively assumed as a society, but, unfortunately, we live a painful time in which we once again question something as elementary as human rights. Bertolt Brecht has to be reminded when he was wondering what times these are that we live in, that we have to defend the obvious. For we will continue to defend the obvious as long as it takes until intolerance and fanaticism return to irrelevantness. [[Applauds]] Also, in the democratic political regime, freedom implies an active involvement of citizens in government and also requires strict control of any abuse by the public authorities. It requires, therefore, transparency, cleanliness, exemplary... We must combat citizen political disaffection with clear transparency exercises, strict control mechanisms and accountability guarantees. There is no excuse or there will be no justification, ladies and gentlemen, for any irregular conduct. Fourthly, ladies and gentlemen, a progressive coalition must build social cohesion through territorial cohesion. Clearly, there is no single way of living or feeling national identity in our country. This circumstance is not new; it was known by the constituents, who embodied it in Article 2 of our Magna Charter. It is also evident that feelings cannot be imposed by force. The key to cohesion is precisely to reconcile different feelings under the same rules of respect. Today, ladies and gentlemen, in a broad sector of the Catalan population there is a feeling of aggravation towards the Catalan institutions or, rather, central ones, a broad sector that does not feel its personality recognized and respected. [[rumors]] There is, there is another equally broad sector of the Catalan population that feels ignored and unfairly treated by the institutions of its own land, and there is in other parts of Spain a rejection of the accusations made by some independence leaders about constitutional Spain, and I am included among them. [[rumors]] And those feelings may have greater or lesser rationality, but they are undeniable, they exist, and they are the result of the political inability and abandonment of the political path to resolve a conflict that is of a political nature, not only in the institutional accommodation of the diversity of identities that our country has, but also in the weaknesses and accumulated wear and tear of our autonomous system that we must correct. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a crisis inherited from which the Socialist Party has already warned being in opposition, and which we assume with all constitutional loyalty and with all institutional responsibility to return to politics a political conflict, allowing us to leave behind the judicial drift that so much pain and so much fracture has caused in much of the Catalan and Spanish citizenship. [[a Member of Parliament: What a shame!]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must return to the only possible path, namely politics, dialogue, negotiation and the pact, which is logically protected by our Constitution. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, we've had too many...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, we have spent too many years consuming collective energies in political tensions that have to do with the vertebration of our coexistence model. We have been accumulating grievances for too long, too long in litigation, many of them sterile, which take time away from the issues that could provide us all with greater prosperity and progress. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are beginning 2020, a time when challenges have become more global and sovereignty is more shared. Inequality, the common European project, the fight against the climate emergency, the resolution of problems such as migration, the fight against dumping or tax havens, the fight against international terrorism put us in the era of interdependence. And it is true that one of the consequences of the past economic crisis was the return of formulas of another time that would allow us to recover the lost prosperity and free ourselves from the challenges, from the threats that loom over individuals in a global world, but those formulas, ladies and gentlemen, are no longer valid in the interdependent world we live in. We know that feelings are not imposed or prohibited and that the solution will not come from imposing one perception on the other, but from changing both perceptions, so what I propose to this House, ladies and gentlemen, is to restart. We need to resume, resume our political dialogue at the moment when the paths were separated and the reasons and arguments ceased to be heard, resume the dialogue at the point where the grievances began to accumulate, finally resume the path of politics, leaving behind the judicialization of the conflict; resume the path of dialogue, negotiation and the pact because it is our obligation, and it is our obligation and our duty because we owe it to our children and grandchildren, who deserve to live in a country united in its diversity, not fractured and confronted. [[applause]] [[rumors]] We all know that dialogue is necessary, that dialogue must start from the recognition of the other, from the attention to its reasons, that there is no other way to resolve this dispute, that there is no other way than through a dialogue that takes place within the law. The law alone is not enough and we have seen it. The law is the condition, the dialogue is the way. If we want to start working honestly, we already start on those two premises. Let us open an honest dialogue backed by the security that gives our legal framework. We have the responsibility of all the parties present here in this House to hold their shoulders to rebuild the cohesion damaged for more than a decade, and to do so around a diverse proposal from Spain, which is enriched by the plurality of their identities, their languages, their cultures and their people. We will not suddenly solve a long larval problem over the last decade, but we can begin to solve it with patience and constancy, with temperance and responsibility and with generosity and empathy, and I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the progressive coalition will work with that, with patience and constancy, with temperance and responsibility and with generosity and empathy. [[Applauds]] There is also another territorial problem, perhaps less acute but much more extensive, which we have to face with equal weight, and it is the demographic challenge, that of Spain which has been depopulated by the lack of attention, because territorial cohesion is working to create employment for those young people in the rural world who have been forced to seek life in large cities or abroad; territorial cohesion is having an infrastructure policy that connects opportunities for no one to feel abandoned by public administrations. Our obligation is to fill that inner Spain, which languishes in the face of depopulation, ageing, dismantling of its public services and impoverishment of its homes, and to this end the Government that aspires to form will take all the necessary measures, as I will detail below, measures that will logically contribute to perfecting the best territorial model that we have in our history, which is the autonomous state. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these are the four principles, the four cardinal values that will define the orientation of the progressive coalition: social justice, defence of public services, freedom and cohesion and territorial dialogue. If these are the values of the progressive coalition, what will be their attitude? And I answer no doubt: we intend to govern for all Spaniards, whatever their ideas and whatever their vote. And we also intend to do so through dialogue. Politics cannot be a hallmark of the vitality of a country that wants to move forward, and that society demands it from all of us, from the progressive forces in the first place - because that has been the majority feeling of their vote - but it is also asked from the right-wing forces, which also represent a large number of citizens, and also from the nationalist and regionalist parties. It would be a great mistake, ladies and gentlemen, a grave mistake to ignore that mandate, not to recognize the outcome of the elections and to deny one another legitimacy, as we sometimes listen to the right-wing bench. We all have full democratic legitimacy, ladies and gentlemen, that is why we are here, with different positions, sometimes antagonistic, but with positions, after all, that represent a part of Spanish citizenship. Such citizenship might come to understand that we do not reach agreements, but it could never, ever, understand that we do not even try to do so by claiming that each one's starting points are very distant. Just because we start from distant points we need this Parliament more than ever, we need more than ever to sit down and talk, that is precisely why we need more than ever dialogue. Our orientations differ, but the problems we suffer, if we really think about it, are the same. Pollution and climate change make no distinction between the left and the right, nor do they even distinguish between those who believe or do not believe in their effects. That is why a pact is needed to reduce CO2 emissions, and to establish, among other issues, mandatory emission-free zones in all municipalities with more than 50 000 inhabitants. Education, culture, science and research depend to a large extent on the future of our country, and the sign of that future will not distinguish between progressives and conservatives. That is why a pact is needed to ensure an educational investment at the end of the term of office of 5% of the annual gross domestic product. [[Applauds]] Old age is something that I hope logically reaches us all and makes no distinction either between the left and the right. That is why a renewal of the Toledo Pact is necessary, which is why it is necessary to revalue pensions according to the cost of living, and that is why the sustainability of the public pension system is also necessary. [[Applauds]] What I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have the opportunity to prove to the citizens that we are able to articulate broad majorities to solve capital problems. What I propose to you is that we restore faith in politics; let us prove that, above and beyond our particularities and our differences, there is a firm will for understanding for the good and advancement of Spain. From the government we will not ask anyone to renounce their principles, ladies and gentlemen, we will not do so; we will only ask them to renounce their sectarianism. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] In past years, ladies and gentlemen, the bipartisan logic, which reduced political life to a dialectic of two major parties, was highly criticized for barren. It would be even worse if we fell into a dialectic of two closed and hermetic blocks. Spain needs the blockades to be broken; Spain needs us to do things that until recently we were not able to do. And so we will try to do, ladies and gentlemen, from the government. We have no personal enemies in this House, believe me, we have no personal enemies in this House, and we are going to strive to dialogue with each and every one of you; we are going to avoid insulting, exabrupting. [[rumors]] We believe that democracy is characterized by the word as an instrument of persuasion, and it is certainly the most powerful. Our enemies, ladies and gentlemen, are injustice, hatred and fanaticism, and the only sense of a health cord is precisely that: to avoid the access of extremist ideas to positions of power from which coexistence can be damaged. [[Protests]] That is why any health cord that is established is not going to be addressed to people, it will be addressed to ideas. Therefore, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, progressive values and an attitude of dialogue. As for the method, let me sum it up in a few words. It will be an active, executive and therefore resolved Government. We need a government that can dialogue and decide. They have tried to convince us, ladies and gentlemen, from conservative positions that the State is part of the problem and not of the solution; that the best Government is the one that is indolent and inhibits itself from the problems of the country. We've had enough over the past eight years. [[Protests. - Rumors.]] We have already seen that this is not the case in the crisis, for example in Catalonia, in pensions, in research, in international projection. We have already seen that when problems are not addressed they rarely get better, often get worse and sometimes pummel. Of course, governments sometimes make mistakes in their actions, ladies and gentlemen; companies are also wrong, markets are also wrong, they are not infallible, but the worst mistake of a government is precisely not to act, it is to cross arms. The world, ladies and gentlemen, is experiencing a technological, social and climate revolution, and we have to respond to it. The revolution that we want to promote does not need big cheers; that is the proposal that we are making, not a proposal for big cheers. It consists of a great steady flow of reforms and changes in the right direction. Changes, for example, that increase people's sense of security, and thereby reduce fear of the future. Changes that reduce the great differences in income suffered by many Spanish and Spanish, and return a sense of community and trust to our country. Changes that reduce tension and territorial fracture and foster understanding, understanding and concord among Spaniards. So, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these will be the signs of identity of the progressive coalition. First, values that will be progressive, dialogueal attitude and active, executive and resolutory method. Let me now go further into the concrete and programmatic proposals that will transform these values into facts and results. Today we are going to vote something new in our country's democratic history; today we are going to vote for the first coalition government proposal in our recent history. But the programme that we offer to society is not only the summary of the Socialist Party's electoral programme and the programme of the United Nations We can, but a programme that goes much further, as it incorporates demands emanating from Parliament itself - from other political forces - and without a doubt also from the society to which we owe ourselves and from the transformations that we need. I remind them of what they are. Firstly, economic growth, decent job creation and pension sustainability. Secondly, the digitisation of our economy. Thirdly, the just ecological transition. Fourthly, real and effective equality between men and women. Fifthly, social justice, and sixthly, the dialogue and understanding of a Spain united in its diversity and committed to a Europe based on human rights. These reforms form our road map for the beginning of the decade, and our country must start a great transformation that will lead us to Spain that we deserve in 2030. The progressive coalition agreement, ladies and gentlemen, distributes this broad package of measures on ten main axes. The full programme is at your disposal, it is public, but let me outline here only some of the most significant concrete measures that are included in it. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, the first chapter concerns the consolidation of growth, the creation of decent jobs. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, needs to consolidate its economic growth, we continue to grow above the European average - this is evidence - but we must improve conditions of competitiveness, productivity and cohesion in order to make our growth more sustainable. The three objectives that form this sort - competitiveness, productivity and cohesion - will be the pillars that justify the economic transformations that we will be addressing. Hence, for example, we call for growth that translates into employment; hence, we call for growth that combats precariousness; hence, we call for growth that guarantees decent, stable and quality work. This government, ladies and gentlemen, firmly believes in social dialogue, dialogue and social agreement, so we propose to rebuild broken consensus and repeal the 2012 labour reform. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is consensus on the issues that need to be removed from the 2012 labour reform, we have been dragging them for too long, and fortunately today we have a parliamentary majority that can guarantee these changes. We also need to move forward with the social partners in the elaboration of a new workers' statute that takes into account the new labour realities, and addresses the challenges of employment in the twenty-first century. Alongside this, the social dialogue will have to address many tasks, and as an example I put some, such as simplifying and reordering the menu of employment contracts; strengthening the causality of dismissals; eliminating the changes that are facilitating dismissal due to justified absenteeism from work, as the unions are asking us to do; recovering labour rights in the processes of substantial modification of working conditions; and reviewing training contracts, including the approval and development of the status of the fellow. We will continue to bet on the return programme for emigrants, just as we will continue with the plans to fight for decent employment, for job creation among young people and for combating long-term unemployment. The Government, ladies and gentlemen, will also promote an unbridled fight against labour fraud and will make a determined commitment to improving, efficiency and coordinating active employment policies, as well as to simplifying the system of unemployment protection. We will act in the field of occupational risk prevention by updating its legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said before that one of the values that will guide government action will be one of the main challenges facing our society, which is the reduction of inequality. And this will happen from the redistribution of wealth and income, but also through predisposition mechanisms - as I said before -, that is, based on the increase in lower incomes. What I want to say is that thanks to this social dialogue we will set the horizon of achieving the goal of the minimum wage at the end of the parliamentary term being 60% of the average wage in our country. [[Applauds]] We will also address issues that have been pending for a long time, such as the full integration into the social security system of female domestic workers throughout the legislature; we will encourage the shared ownership of women's farms, improving their position in the social security system; we also intend to promote a national social entrepreneurship plan, and from that same philosophy we have to face one of the main challenges ahead, and it is to make a decisive commitment to vocational training and in particular dual vocational training. We will promote a strategic vocational training plan, incorporating companies with flexible formulas, also creating consortia with the participation of social partners and the educational community. The challenge, ladies and gentlemen, is that by 2025 Spain will need to create 200 000 new vocational training places, strengthen teacher training as well as its mobility and links with the productive sectors. Today we are already updating - you know - the catalogue to incorporate eighty new degrees and specialization courses, associated above all and above all with one of the objectives I have mentioned before: the digitisation of our economy. But it is necessary to go much further and we will update the contents of the one hundred and seventy-two existing titles so that a new digitisation module applied to each productive sector is incorporated in all of them. It is ultimately a question of adapting our training model to the labour needs of the 21st century economy, and in this regard we are going to work on reforming the catalogue of professional qualifications in order to adapt the qualifications to the labour needs of our economy. This government has among its values, ladies and gentlemen, the defence of public services, as I have said before, and the drive for common goods, and in order to do so effectively we have challenges ahead of us that need to be addressed. Challenges such as, for example, the development of the Basic Staff Regulations, which require improving systems of access to public service, speeding up processes, career, performance evaluation and professional classification. There is also a need to review something that is very common and that you will have heard from many of your collectives, which is the interim contract of administrations in order to avoid their misuse, and to make decisive progress on the gender perspective in the institutions of the General Administration of the State in order to eliminate any kind of gender discrimination. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in this parliamentary term, the Government is going to continue with the equalization of the salaries of the Police and the Civil Guard, a measure that is fair, to repair a situation that has been unjustly prolonged for too long. [[Applauds]] The second chapter, ladies and gentlemen, is fiscal justice and budgetary balance, which are two sides of the same coin. Ladies and gentlemen, we start from a clear conviction, and it is essential to combine social cohesion with territorial balance or, rather, budgetary balance, excuse, and to carry forward this ambitious progressive reform programme. Laying the foundations for technological change-oriented development, and taking advantage of the opportunities of the transition to a green economy, require more policy evaluation and also greater control over public spending. We will, ladies and gentlemen, honour our commitments to fiscal responsibility with Europe, and we will do so both wisely in spending and with fiscal justice; a fiscal justice that will require progressive, and therefore place us on the average of the rest of the euro area countries. A fair tax system, ladies and gentlemen, is a system in which those who most have, that is, a progressive system in which no one circumvents their tax obligations, because fraud is the worst of tax injustices. [[Rumors]] It is essential to combat fraud with more and better tools, so I announce that we are going to promote a law on measures to prevent and combat tax fraud, and we are going to develop a national strategy that includes strengthening the means, updating the list of tax havens and enhancing prevention through the list of late tax agents. We are also going to push for something that the previous Government did, and that we are going to ban by law, and that is that tax amnesty can be passed in the future. [[Applauds]] It is necessary to introduce strict limits to cash payments, prohibit dual-use software, boost the control unit of large assets and exercise greater control over Sicav. As far as companies are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we will raise the effective rate for large corporations and reduce it to small and medium-sized enterprises. We are also going to review something important, which is the tax system of cooperatives, of labour companies, ultimately of the social economy, in order to regain tax efficiency in the promotion of these types of enterprises. And with regard to the income tax on natural persons, we will avoid any increase in the tax burden on middle classes, which are not going to be affected, and we will only increase the rates on the general basis for taxpayers with incomes above EUR 130 000 per year. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] We will promote digital taxation, as called for by the European Union's recommendations, and we will boost the Tobin rate, as other European countries have. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to bet on a green future and taxation is another instrument to achieve it. The ultimate goal will be to discourage harmful behaviour for the environment, and it will have a clear premise, which is to prevent any regulatory change from impacting on middle and working classes. In this area, too, at European level, we will continue to promote the establishment of border CO2 compensation mechanisms for imports. It is essential to address the modernization of our tax system with criteria of justice and revenue efficiency. I think this is a diagnosis that we can share most of this House, but if we have to catch up and ensure revenue efficiency we must still be more vigilant in controlling spending. Ultimately, we need to be more efficient in our management so that income transfers from the public meet the purposes for which they were designed. Ladies and gentlemen, the third chapter concerns the impetus of industry, SMEs, the social economy to which I referred earlier, the self-employed and the primary sector to strengthen our productive fabric in the context of the technological revolution. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has the real possibility of being in the group of countries leading the fourth industrial revolution, but to do so we must undertake reforms and pay special attention to some of the segments that support our productive fabric, such as the social economy, small and medium-sized enterprises and also the self-employed who represent more than three million Spaniards. Here are some of the measures that we want to push forward over the next four years. We will continue to promote the Spanish innovation ecosystem, we will strongly support SMEs and all this within the Spanish Entrepreneur Nation Strategy. For this we will enhance the role of CDTI as the main driving force for innovation in our country, and we will also support the digital transformation of SMEs through the adoption of a 2030 SME strategic framework. An essential part of productive policy is the drive for science and investment in R & D+i. We will increase public investment in civil R & D+i above the increase in the State's non-financial expenditure limit, moving towards the Community's total public and private investment targets. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to facilitate the recruitment of staff in public research centres, to increase pre-doctoral scholarships and post-doctoral contracts, as well as to improve the conditions of pre-doctoral research staff, ultimately equipping them with rights and betting on professional stabilization. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a priority to develop the Science Act, which has not been done since 2011, with the strengthening of the transfer of knowledge and the simplification of the work of researchers from public bodies. Undoubtedly, resources will have to be increased, but also more effectively oriented from a multi-year perspective to make better use of talent and staff continuity. Spain can and must be a country for science, and it will be a country for science, innovation and knowledge. Changing by a third, ladies and gentlemen, trade must not be absent from the wave of modernization that our country needs, and we will present a plan for modernising retail trade that will boost digitisation and adaptation to new technologies. The internationalisation of the Spanish economy is key to achieving stronger and healthier growth, and to enhance it we will develop an action plan for internalisation 2020-2021, which will modernize the financial support instruments and also introduce sustainability as a criterion and cross-cutting element in the internationalisation policy that the Spanish public sector implements. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is committed to improving coverage and setting fairer quotas for self-employed workers. We will gradually equate the rights of this group with those of workers on behalf of others, and a system of contributions for real income will be established with greater social protection in the event of unemployment, sickness or retirement. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain also needs to increase the weight of its industry on the gross domestic product as a whole, and this will lead to the creation of an industrial development plan to improve competitiveness and create quality jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, the government will activate state resources to ensure the continuity of those companies - this is important - that they are a fundamental source of employment in their regions, that is, we are going to fight, as we have fought resolutely in recent months, against industrial relocations. With the participation of the autonomous communities and the main economic and social actors in the sector, we will develop a sustainable tourism strategy 2030, based on the sustainability and implementation of tourism intelligence. Ladies and gentlemen, the living conditions of the rural world, to which I referred earlier in the area of population repopulation and the struggle for the demographic challenge, and certainly of the primary sector as a whole, are very important to this government. That is why, as I have said on many other occasions - every time I have had the opportunity to rise to this rostrum and refer to it - we will defend a common agricultural policy sufficiently endowed, capable of ensuring the threefold economic, social and environmental sustainability of farms in Spain during the financial period 2021-2027. Ladies and gentlemen, the countryside can count on the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] And you can also count on us, ladies and gentlemen, on the fisheries sector, because we are going to promote sustainable fisheries and aquaculture based on knowledge, innovation and scientific research. Finally, within this chapter, I would like to stop for a moment even in the digital revolution. We will launch a series of measures aimed at completing the deployment of digital infrastructures with a new mobile technology, which is 5G, we will create a social bonus of Internet access for vulnerable groups, we will boost the digital rights law and present an ambitious Spanish artificial intelligence strategy. In all this, of course, the public administration must have an exemplary attitude, so we will move towards a more open and efficient digital administration. In this regard, I would like to highlight the extension of the citizen folder, whereby any citizen will be able to access the procedures and all their files in relation to the General Administration of the State. The fourth chapter, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the fight against the climate emergency. Chile's recent COP25 Climate Summit in Madrid made us all even more familiar with the great debate that concerns us as a society. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we are suffering from droughts, which affect the fields, the reservoirs; fires, which plague our mountains; and the loss of biodiversity - in a country which is enormously rich in biodiversity - of our rivers and our seas. There is only one possible conclusion, and it is that our development model is obsolete, has collapsed and is ruining the planet on which we live. The government that I am going to preside over if the House gives me that confidence will, of course, be at the forefront of the commitment to the ecological transition, the protection of our biodiversity and the guarantee of decent treatment for animals. [[Applauds]] We will adopt the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act, which will set ambitious targets for greenhouse gas emissions. The objective will be to achieve, ladies and gentlemen, a very ambitious challenge in 2050, as is a generation of electricity with a hundred percent renewable origin, and between 85% and 95% in 2040. We will approve the integrated national energy and climate plan, we will reform the electricity market with the aim of reducing the energy bill, always giving certainty to old and future investors - not as happened with previous administrations - and any action taken by the Government will have as a priority the just transition in the new energy model. There can be no one left behind, there can be no losers, and to that end, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce to you that we will set up the fair transition institute, which will be the evolution of the institute of mining basins, to develop urgent action plans for the regions affected by the closure of coal plants, of nuclear plants on the known timetable, so that new employment opportunities in the regions concerned are ensured. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to develop and adopt a circular economy strategy with the aim of achieving zero residue by 2050; we are going to promote the adoption of a single-use plastic law and we are going to address efficiency measures for key sectors, such as: construction, agri-food, tourism, packaging, packaging, textiles, electrical manufacturing and also electronics. The Government will regulate and promote energy self-consumption by simplifying administrative and technical procedures for cost-free self-consumption. And in its willingness to protect the most vulnerable families, the Government will reform the electric social bond by creating a general bond that will also include a more gas bond, and we will also ban cuts in basic supplies when the default is due to reasons beyond the will of the holders. [[Applauds]] It is essential, ladies and gentlemen, to tackle sustainable mobility, for which we will draw up a law on sustainable mobility and financing of public transport, we will launch a scheme of economic aid for the electric vehicle and we will promote a plan of closeness 2019-2025 among many other measures in this field. In this chapter on environmental and ecological transition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make an explicit reference to water management as one of the key elements. We will draw up a national plan for water purification, sanitation, efficiency, savings and reuse, enshrining, among other issues, access to water as a human right and not as a commercial good. We will expand the network of protected areas, providing adequate funding for biodiversity protection policies and the management of natural areas. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, we will push forward an animal welfare law, an increasingly demanding demand in our society. The fifth chapter, ladies and gentlemen, is the demographic challenge. As I said earlier, territorial cohesion does not refer only to the Catalan conflict, to autonomous financing or to the competitive development of communities. In our geography there are vast areas that extend across most of the autonomous communities - none of them are safe - that have been emptied by the lack of opportunities. Young people have left the villages for lack of opportunity. It was therefore urgent to reverse that situation, and the Government would develop what it had adopted in the previous legislature, the National Strategy against the demographic challenge, a strategy to combat depopulation, connectivity and support for the young population. We will consolidate the State of inclusive well-being in rural areas. We will commit ourselves to extending the public welfare service package to all citizens, apart from its size, the dispersion or the degree of ageing of its population. We will implement cross-cutting measures and support projects for employment, self-employment or collective entrepreneurship in rural municipalities at population risk. We will develop coverage of more than 30 mega and 3 gigas for the 100 percent of the citizenry at affordable price. [[Rumors]] We will prioritise the improvement of existing infrastructures and, in particular, all populations, whatever their size, will have a transport service that communicates with the head of the region. [[Applauds]] In addition, home health care will be guaranteed when there is no local health centre and we will ensure the safety of our peoples with the recovery of the staff of the State Security Forces and Bodies. And to stimulate, ladies and gentlemen, the economic recovery of the most depressed, abandoned areas, we are going to set up depopulation offices in at least twenty rural areas that require urgent intervention. [[Applauds]] Its function will be to accompany people and companies who want to settle in the area, facilitating contacts and mediation in the process. [[Rumors]] The sixth chapter is the impulse of culture and sport as essential factors of life. The Government wishes to establish culture as a right and sport as a guarantee of health, integration and quality of life. We therefore want to boost cultural activity and support creation, especially from younger sectors. I have already announced to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the budget for culture will gradually increase over the next few years. We will complete the development of the Artist's Statute, adopted unanimously in this Parliament, in order to improve the conditions of creators and creators. We will create a public authorship rights office under the Ministry of Culture and Sport to optimize rights management and ensure protection... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u17	We will launch a reading pact that revitalises the book sector. We will defend a model of Spanish radio television plural, independent, public, transparent and of quality, which is oriented towards the promotion of the dissemination of Spanish culture. [[the rumors continue]] [[Rumors.-Applause.]] We will regulate, ladies and gentlemen, the sports professions with a training and employment plan for retired athletes. And two last steps that allow me to anticipate the next chapter of the government program: we will promote a sports law that will seek, among other issues, to support especially women's sport, also basic sport and university sport, and we will promote an action plan on equality in the cultural field to give visibility to authors, artists, invisible creators, by eliminating the gender gap. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, one of the identity signs of this Government will be policies aimed at achieving full equality between men and women, and to them is devoted to the seventh section of this programme. Gender equality, ladies and gentlemen, is not a passing fashion, but rather defines us as a society. Feminism isn't going to back off. It is an irreversible social and political movement that defends equality in a peaceful and cross-cutting way. That is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, it is unstoppable. It is precisely in this philosophy of equality that the feminist movement claims at the global level. We will therefore, first, develop policies to ensure equality between men and women in employment through a law that supports equal pay by establishing measures to promote wage transparency. We will continue to promote equalization of equal and non-transferable paternity and maternity leave. The progress of equality and co-responsibility also implies a reflection on the use that we give at the same time; therefore, we are going to promote and approve a social agreement for the rationalization of the timetables, which we want to agree with the social actors and also with all the political actors. And in order to ensure compliance with these measures, labour inspections will be enhanced, the sanctioning regime will be increased and the State office to combat gender discrimination will be established. The progress of equality means ending the discrimination suffered by women in all areas, ladies and gentlemen, and so we are going to address, among other issues, the deactivation of what is called the pink rate, that is, the price increase of the same product when it comes to a female version. But if equality is an irrevocable goal, the fight against gender-based violence is a real social, social emergency. The data remains staggering: we have more than fifty women killed in the course of the year; the number of convicted for sexual offences has increased by 10% a year since 1998. [[Rumors]] To combat this, we must regain the vigor with a fully capable Government and, to begin with, we will do so for the preliminary: by regulating in the Penal Code that sexual consent is only yes. [[Applauds]] The Government will develop all outstanding measures under the State Pact against Gender Violence, incorporating into our legislation the provisions of the Istanbul Convention to Prevent and Eradicate All Forms of Violence against Women. We will strengthen support for those affected by this violence by adopting a comprehensive plan for compensation, preparation and recovery of autonomy. We will establish the suspension of the regime of visits of minors by parents or legal guardians who are serving sentences, or have issued precautionary measures for serious crimes of gender-based violence or committed in their presence. We will work to eradicate prostitution and to eradicate trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation. [[Applauds]] In this regard, a comprehensive law against trafficking in persons for the purpose of sexual exploitation will be adopted and we will promote enhanced protection of minors in order to avoid access to pornography in line with the audiovisual regulations of the European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, we say no to surrogate pregnancy. Reproductive exploitation is prohibited in our legislation and, therefore, we will act against the agencies that offer these services, knowing that they are prohibited in our country. [[Applauds]] We will guarantee sexual and reproductive rights to ensure a free and determined motherhood through education policies, the prevention of unwanted pregnancies by facilitating access to the latest contraceptive methods, emergency contraception and the voluntary termination of pregnancy of all women, and by guaranteeing assisted reproductive treatments to all women through the National Health System. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that we also make a shared effort to close the gender gap in the areas of science, technology, engineering, mathematics, because we need more women in those areas and, to do so, we will develop various measures within the scientific and educational fields. The eighth chapter is the protection and expansion of social rights and also democratic regeneration. The Government for which I seek the confidence of the House is going to work for the protection, recovery and consolidation of social rights, and will do so from a clearly progressive perspective of defending the public, education, health and attention to dependency and social services. One of the strategic vectors that will mark the future of our country is, without a doubt, ladies and gentlemen - and we will all agree - education. This is an area in which a broad agreement is not only desirable but also essential. The Government will promote a basic law that repeals the existing Lomce, a rule that starts with two basic considerations: shielding public education as a backbone of the education system, and incorporating the agreements reached by the educational community. This standard should align vocational training with the rest of the system and strengthen training in values, as well as the mechanisms for school autonomy and governance. The new education law must ensure inclusion, elimination of school segregation due to the conditions of origin of the students, their special educational needs or by sex. Ladies and gentlemen, no centre supported by public funds can afford any form of segregation. [[Applauds]] We have an obligation to act in the face of phenomena such as school failure, early abandonment, harassment and violence in educational institutions, and we will do so through specific plans in which the autonomous communities will play an essential role under the title of competence in this matter. We will ensure that compulsory education is real and effective free of charge so that no vulnerable family is affected by the educational career of their children. The subject of religion will be voluntary without an alternative subject and the note will not be computable for academic purposes. [[Applauds]] And in this constant effort of adaptation it is essential to bet on the faculty. We will strengthen initial training, promote teacher stability and advance performance evaluation in an agreed manner with industry representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, quality public education is the best tool for equal opportunities and social mobility in Spain. That is why we are going to increase public resources for education, scholarships, to that ambitious but possible target of an educational investment of 5% of gross domestic product in 2025. [[Applauds]] Similarly, this legislature must be, with the help of the autonomous communities, the legislature of universal access to children's education from 0 to 3 years through a public network and under conditions of equity. And in the field of university education, I intend to launch a pact by the university at the hands of all political and social actors. We need to ensure not only resource adequacy, but also the ability to attract retention of talent to our university or the stability of the faculty by reducing precariousness. It is necessary to promote the simplification of the procedures for the accreditation of new academic degrees, to strengthen a new policy of scholarships and also of university fees, and in this we will have to talk, and much, with the autonomous communities. The scholarship system will be reviewed to be considered a subjective right depending on the situation of family income. This system must first and foremost - we will all agree - be agile. Scholarships must cease to be a gift and become a right of persons who meet certain social and academic requirements. In addition, we will facilitate mobility and residence - this I would also like to transfer to those who are committed to combating depopulation - of rural students in access to university studies. We cannot allow anyone to suffer discrimination or difficulty added because it comes from the rural environment. [[Applauds]] In the area of health, the Government, for whose investiture I request the confidence of the House, will move forward without delay in the progressive elimination of co-payments, starting with pensioners and households with fewer resources and at risk of vulnerability. Throughout this mandate we will also progressively introduce the oral health care of the population into the portfolio of services of the National Health System and we will advance in the shielding of our public model with the clear and determined commitment of direct public management. Similarly, policies relating to the pharmaceutical industry need to be reoriented by prioritizing efficiency and transparency in pricing. Spain must achieve, ladies and gentlemen, a health investment equivalent to the average of the euro area states, and we must do so during this parliamentary term, so that we can achieve that 7 % of GDP in 2023. The right to health protection implies universal access to the National Health System and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to do something that has been pending since 2012, and it is to extend this right to ascendant persons who arrive from outside the Community regrouped by their daughters and children with Spanish nationality, reversing the measures that in this sense - as I said before - were implemented in 2012 by the previous Administration. Finally, progress needs to be made in areas such as the implementation of the strategic framework for updating primary care, the development of an early-care system, the integration of the needs of rare diseases into comprehensive health coverage planning, and the revision of the mental health strategy. I do not want to conclude this paragraph without a reference to which I consider the best capital our health system has, which is its professionals. We will improve staff conditions by ensuring compliance with existing agreements, and promote a return programme for professionals working outside our country today as a result of the cuts that were implemented by the previous Administration. [[Applauds]] In the area of social services, we propose the constitutional shielding of the public social services system as the fourth pillar of the welfare state. It is essential to address one of its main tasks: the reduction of waiting lists in the national dependency care system and we will also improve the amounts at the minimum level and the agreed dependency level. Finally, we are going to act in the face of a growing problem in our streets that affects our elders in particular: to adopt a strategy in the face of unintended loneliness. Ladies and gentlemen, this will be the government of the guarantee of decent pensions, through the sufficiency and re-evaluation of the public system; we are going to propose to all political forces and social actors a new Toledo Pact that will guarantee, through the shielding of the Constitution, the sustainability and sufficiency of the public pension system. We will update by law pensions according to the cost of living, the CPI, and we will increase the purchasing power of minimum and non-contributory pensions. We will promote the reduction of the gender gap in pensions and the expansion of widowhood pensions in the case of unmarried couples. [[Applauds]] In this regard, I intend to promote the reform and reorganization of the social security system within the framework of the social dialogue and, therefore, we must promote a structural increase in income and limit the improper expenditure of the system. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning of my speech, needs a government committed to policies to combat poverty and extreme inequality, and this executive will be deeply involved. We will increase the child benefit for vulnerable families and will later apply an income guarantee for families without income or with low income. The goal, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, is to end up with a minimum living income in our country that will save the most vulnerable sectors from poverty. [[Applauds]] In this area, as I said at the beginning of my speech, we are going to combat child poverty with measures such as the promotion of food aid, school materials, conciliation aid, and we are going to take measures to rationalise timetables. We are going to protect childhood, adolescence, because protecting childhood and adolescence is investing in society. We have to provide the tools, but we also have to provide the necessary protection. That is why I am announcing that it is time to complete - we will do so as soon as possible - the law for the comprehensive protection of children and adolescents from all forms of violence. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, only nineteen out of every hundred young people under the age of twenty-nine are emancipated. Access to housing is one of the biggest problems we face as a society and one of the areas where the constitutional mandate is most dissatisfied. This Government will try to live up to what that mandate represents and will work with a clear road map, not only with an increase in budgetary resources, but with clear policy measures that protect those most in need of State support, especially in the area of rented housing. We are going to slow down the abusive rent increases by putting a ceiling on tensioned market areas and we are going to strengthen the competition framework of local authorities so that they can act in this area. [[Applauds]] We will encourage, ladies and gentlemen, measures of immediate reallocation in situations of vulnerability, and we will encourage social rent for those who have suffered a process of mortgage execution and have no housing alternative, we will promote mechanisms for the viable restructuring of mortgage debts on the habitual housing of debtors of good faith in a situation of vulnerability. It is necessary to study the application of additional obligations for large housing holders and, consequently, we are going to reform the legal and fiscal regime of the Socimi. In the field of tourist rental we will strengthen the powers of the communities of owners so that they can condition the exercise of this activity. We will bet decisively, ladies and gentlemen, on rehabilitation, we will put in place a state plan that includes specific financing for rental housing and has one of the central elements in energy efficiency. We need to make progress in the social use of housing and the public park with a clear legal framework. We cannot tolerate what we have seen in recent years, ladies and gentlemen: the de-amortisation, that is, that public protective housing can be exploited as is the case today by investment funds, and we must therefore ensure that its fate is the right one, that is, that of the families who need it. In this area, I believe that the Sareb will have an important role in ensuring the signing of agreements with regional and local authorities, which will encourage the use of housing for social rents. We need to use all the tools at our disposal to ensure the effectiveness of the constitutional right to housing and we will therefore mobilize public land and stimulate private rental. This Government will act decisively in another area of growing concern, and it is that of the prevention of addictions. We will regulate the advertising of gambling and online betting, and introduce information and management measures in gambling consumer education. [[Applauds]] We will promote homogeneous criteria with the autonomous communities to prevent betting venues from opening at certain times and limiting their proximity to schools, as is the case today in many cities in our country unfortunately. And we will reorient the administrative management rate of the online game operators to allocate a percentage to preventive initiatives to raise awareness and repair the negative effects of the game activity. The initiatives put forward so far, ladies and gentlemen, call for the fulfilment of social obligations in the institutions. We do not want to indiscriminately expand the presence of the public. We want an active Government and an efficient State. We want effective and transparent institutions to combat inequality and fight for what unites us, which is equity. This last mandate, that of transparency, directly interferes with democratic regeneration. Ladies and gentlemen, in this matter we have a moral duty to be ambitious because what is at stake is ultimately the confidence of citizens themselves in politics and in their institutions. We have an obligation to agree on the election and renewal of constitutional bodies and independent bodies, and we must also do so by prioritizing the principles of merit, capacity, equality, gender equality and professional prestige. The Government will also develop a national anti-corruption plan, strengthening the operational means of the State Security Forces and Bodies, studying the introduction of new criminal figures, and we will adopt a comprehensive anti-corruption law and a complainant's statute that strengthens this essential figure to combat a scourge such as this that is intolerable to society. [[Applauds]] Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to address the regulation of lobbies in order to make their work transparent, we are going to regulate in a much more effective way the conditions of incompatibility and performance of private activities for the public sectors, and we also need to reform the Law on Transparency and Good Governance and adopt its regulations in order to make it effective on the basis of the experience we have accumulated over the past few years. Action is needed to strengthen the fight against cartels in public procurement and it is essential to make progress in integrating the principles of good governance and corporate social responsibility into the founding and business public sector. And linked to these objectives, in the area of democratic regeneration, the commitment to effective justice will be a priority in this legislature. We will promote a state pact for the modernization of justice that focuses on agility and the access system and we will also amend, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act to eliminate the maximum period of investigation, which is only a limitation to combat political corruption. The ninth chapter is the new rights and also, ladies and gentlemen, democratic memory. One of the great successes of constitutional Spain has been the extension of rights that has turned our country into a modern, free society that serves as an international reference. But that task is not finished, ladies and gentlemen. The Government that aspires to form is committed to consolidating Spain as the country of the diversity that it is, collecting the requests of civil society and approving in this legislature how many legal changes are necessary for the rights of LGBTI people, persons with disabilities, with the amendment of article 49 of the Constitution, and intercultural coexistence. [[Applauds]] We will adopt, as we have publicly announced, the regulation of euthanasia that recognizes the right to a dignified death. We will also continue to advance the rights of people with functional diversity through the development of inclusive norms and laws. The Government will protect all families, all families, all types of families, as demanded by Spanish society, as well as single-marital families, single-parent families, large families, multiple-birth families and also host families. We will also develop measures to support the adoption by LGBTI families and to recognize the affiliation of lesbian women's couples. Ladies and gentlemen, last October, the state, with the help of its three powers, moved from the mausoleum of the Valley of the Fallen to dictator Francisco Franco. [[Applauds]] This symbolic fact strengthened Spanish democracy, opened a new stage of reparation, justice and memory that has to serve to start closing the division between Spaniards definitively. And although there were people who felt upset, that action was directed against no one and was carried out with the respect that any human being deserves, even those who have systematically violated human rights. That distinguishes precisely the democracies from dictatorships, and we will continue that path of reparation and maintain that same philosophy. To this end, we will conduct reconnaissance and reparation actions for the victims of the Civil War and the dictatorship. We will declare 31 October as a day of remembrance for all the victims of Francoism and 8 May as the day of recognition of the victims of exile. [[applause]] We will boost the exhumations of the victims of Francoism who continue in mass graves, remove the Francoist symbolism from public places and nullify the decorations derived from repressive actions carried out during the dictatorship. [[Applauds]] Finally, we will audit the goods expropriated by franchising to return them to their legitimate holders, starting with the recovery as soon as possible of the Pazo de Meirás for the public heritage. [[Applauds]] The Government will adopt a new law on citizen security that repeals the law on gags to ensure the exercise of the right to free expression and peaceful assembly. [[Rumors]] This is another firm commitment. The Government also has the will to move towards the justice of the electoral system, always seeking the greatest possible parliamentary support, and in this regard we are going to propose to the House the elimination of the requested vote. Another of the most damaging phenomena for confidence in which civil coexistence is based is the proliferation of fake news. Lying, slander, falsehood, are not new phenomena, but the eruption... [[Rumors and protests.-Laughter and applause.-Mr. García Aegean: Bravo!-Applause]] Madam President, I believe that in this area we will find a very broad consensus in this House. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] As I said earlier, ladies and gentlemen, another of the most damaging phenomena for confidence in which civil coexistence is based is the proliferation of fake news. [[Rumors]] The lie, slander, falsehood are not new phenomena, but the irruption, logically, of digitization has perfected its production and facilitated its expansion. Therefore, and always with scrupulous respect for freedom of expression and information, we will promote a national strategy to combat misinformation. [[Protests and rumors]] In addition, we will adopt a cybersecurity plan and we will create a national cybersecurity forum for technological development and research. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well! All right!-Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, in a confessional state it makes no sense for any confession to be placed above the law or to enjoy privileges that hurt the principle of legality and the principle of equality, and for that reason the Government will make the necessary legislative amendments - I have already announced - to facilitate the recovery of property that has been improperly registered by the Church. [[a congressman: Merry Christmas!]] [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Equality does not mean uniformity, on the contrary; equality to be full... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u19	... requires the recognition of equal rights for all singularities and that is why we claim at all times pride in diversity, the right to difference, ladies and gentlemen. We will adopt a comprehensive law on equal treatment and non-discrimination; we will adopt a law against discrimination against LGBTI people, including the prohibition at the national level of bad calls, reversal therapies; we will adopt the first trans law, encouraging the socio-laboral integration of transsexual people and their full participation in political, social and cultural life. [[Applauds]] We will adopt public policies aimed at improving access to and retention of the education and employment of the Roma population and will finally promote a comprehensive legislative and political framework that will eradicate hate speech and hate crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said that this government will not treat anyone as an enemy, and so it will, but we will be militants against racist ideology, xenophobia, homophobia and machism. [[Applauds]] For this government patriotism means to protect, to protect all Spaniards, also minorities and the most vulnerable. Patriotism means proudly exhibiting our achievements in social rights, our status as pioneers in our country. There is nothing more to see than what France is discussing right now about the Comprehensive Law on Gender Violence; pioneers that we are in civil liberties. Patriotism means displacing from public space the symbols that evoke a period of oppression and dictatorship exercised against Spaniards for their ideas, their culture and their language. And this will be a government that will bear and honor our flag, our flags, but will never camouflage itself behind them to hurt or oppress other compatriots. [[Applauds]] The tenth and final chapter of the government programme, ladies and gentlemen, is the strengthening of territorial cohesion, the strengthening of our autonomous state, the strengthening of self-government and its development within a federal Europe in which our future is enshrined. The Government, ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, will work to overcome the political conflict in Catalonia. We must do this for all Catalans and for all Spaniards, for conviction and for responsibility. Dialogue, always within the Constitution, will be an absolute priority to achieve formulas of understanding and encounter. We cannot assume, ladies and gentlemen, the territorial wound as a chronic illness, destined to pass from generation to generation. Spain's autonomy, Spain's self-government is an unquestionable and consolidated reality that does not admit going back; a reality that has run in parallel in recent decades with our country's full involvement in the development of the European project. The territorial organization framework provided for in Title VIII of our Constitution has allowed silent territories for decades to finally have a clear voice; it has allowed the free development of national identities within our constitutional framework. He has profiled Spain as it is, plural, diverse, democratic, full of nuances that enrich us all. Spain as it is, that will be our political project. [[Rumors]] As the independent tax authority has pointed out, contrary to certain beliefs being called into question by the right bank, the model of self-government has meant an improvement in the territorial distribution of higher income to the countries of our environment, for example France, with a centralist state. The path, therefore, cannot be that of involution as some propose, but that of improvement, reform and updating of our system, always guaranteeing, logically, equality between Spaniards. Ours is a complex model, ladies and gentlemen, that is obvious, but complexity is nothing more than a manifestation of the diversity of our country, of our society, and it cannot become a pretext for not moving forward; it must be a stimulus for consensus, for dialogue from a clear premise, and it is a desire to share power, not to limit power, or rather, indeed, not to assume it only as an institution. That is why we are going to improve, ladies and gentlemen, the mechanisms for institutional collaboration with all the autonomous communities. We have done so in recent months, we have launched all the bilateral commissions that are contained in many autonomous statutes to strengthen inter-institutional cooperation between central government and autonomous governments and also, as a result of a political conflict that we have to resolve, I announce that we are going to create a bilateral dialogue table between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia we are going to create it, we are going to debate within the constitutional framework and we are going to put an end to this territorial confrontation. [[Protests.-Applause.]] We will also, ladies and gentlemen, work with the Basque Government to comply with the outstanding transfers of the current statute and to renew it, which the Basque Parliament wants to do, always within our constitutional framework, logically. It is essential to clarify the distribution also, ladies and gentlemen - I said earlier - because much of what we are experiencing, of territorial grievances, has to do with the wear and tear of our autonomous state, which we have to renew, which we have to clarify in the area of competition between the state and the autonomous power. In doing so, we will be fighting one of the most perverse effects of the current system, which is the regulatory uncertainty that produces competition conflicts. It is true that the former Government has reduced - and greatly reduced - the level of inter-institutional conflict that has existed between States and autonomous communities, but it is clear that we need to clarify competences to further reduce this conflict or this level of conflict. More efficiency, more clarity and more practicality in competition sharing have returns, in my opinion, positive for society and for economic actors; it means less conflict and more clarity. Likewise, we will promote the participation of the autonomous communities in the decisions of the State and the State in the autonomous actions when the general interest is affected and promote a real exchange of information in order to promote genuine integration between the two powers. The beginning, ladies and gentlemen - I have said it on other occasions - must be the legislature of dialogue in general and, in particular, the legislature of territorial dialogue. We will also promote the formal constitution of the Conference of Presidents on an annual basis. This will also be in coherence, ladies and gentlemen - as we have announced in our progressive coalition agreement - the autonomic financing legislature. It is clear that we cannot do this alone, that we will also need the conservative bench, but I believe that the autonomous communities, which are managers of the welfare state, need an update on autonomous funding. This is a diagnosis and a claim made not only by presidents of socialist governments, but also by other political signs, and I therefore believe that we need to address it without delay. We need to ensure that autonomous funding, including local funding, is improved from respect for its nuclear elements, among other reasons, because it depends on spending on social matters that are, as I said earlier, essential to our Government, such as education, health or social services and dependency. The process of decentralization in Spain is inseparable, even in historical terms, ladies and gentlemen, from the European construction project. In this regard, I would like to link the two flows that pass in parallel: the decentralization of territorial power in our country and also the construction of Europe. They transit in parallel as the manifestation of a great success that is the heritage of the entire Spanish society, an autonomous Spain, a decentralized Spain, a federal Spain in a federal and united Europe. [[Rumors]] Spain will continue to have a strong voice in redefining the European integration project. [[a Member of Parliament: Lie!]] We will strengthen our commitment and guide it from the beginning and from a very clear beginning, which is that of reducing inequality, precariousness and poverty. We will continue to advocate the establishment of a European minimum wage, a European unemployment insurance complementary to national unemployment protection systems and the effective consolidation of the Union's social pillar. The European project needs to broaden its support bases, relegitimate itself as a useful tool for people. In short, as a union in values that enhances the diversity of our continent and our societies and offers a unique platform to influence a globalized world. The European Union must be a global benchmark in the fight against any form of discrimination and, therefore, we will promote the creation of a European High Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, Equal Treatment, which harmonises and supervises the protection of fundamental rights in all States. [[Applauds]] Europe, ladies and gentlemen, is much more than a market, it is a genuine community of humanistic values and if it abdicates the defence of these values it loses its raison d'être. That is a vision with which Spain continues to embrace the European ideal. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the summary of some of the measures contained in the progressive coalition agreement. They are all measures aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals and the 2030 Agenda, with which this government is committed and intends precisely to illuminate the Spain we want for the next decade. I have started by explaining the values that underpin the progressive orientation of a progressive coalition for which I call for their support; I have continued to describe the inclusive and dialogueal attitude that we are going to maintain with each and every political group; I have defined its working method as active and I have finally listed its programme. Ladies and gentlemen, just two decades ago, Europe adopted the single currency. Nothing seemed to stop the Union's desire to expand its limits and its model of social market economy, primacy of the rule of law and democratic values. Just a decade ago, a devastating economic crisis struck us and forced us to slow down in the dry; that very Europe did not know how to respond effectively or equitably and suddenly discovered its limitations. At this time Spain, our nation, has had to heal its wounds without being able to think about everything that has been left on the road and the price to be paid, which has been paid, in terms of inequality and precariousness. Faced with this change of decade it is time to recover and repair the sequels that still remain in Spanish society, laying the foundations, in short, for the third great transformation of our country. The first transformation, ladies and gentlemen, brought us back to Europe and brought us into line with a system of freedoms and social rights. The second transformation has made us a reference point for equality and opportunities in Europe and in the world, and the third is to face the great challenges of our time, to face the ecological transition, to face the digital revolution, to face the debate and the challenge of inequality, namely to understand and know, respect and recognize ourselves in the diversity of identities that our nation has, while achieving full gender equality and greater social justice that makes us feel like we are all members of the same community. Ladies and gentlemen, there are groups in this House that obviously do not share the ideas I have put before you, and I am aware of that. The same happens in our workplaces, in our families, in our neighborhood, but that does not prevent dialogue, reaching agreements, living with everyone every day. Therefore, I insist on the commitment to make dialogue a tool that will reconciliate politics with the street, with a society that looks forward to us big agreements, big pacts, big consensuses, that the culture of the agreement will return and that the confrontation will move away. In a few minutes, ladies and gentlemen, I will leave this rostrum and then listen carefully to your speeches and each spokesman will use his time as he pleases, all I humbly ask you to think about the people who see us from their homes. [[Rumors]] Go up to this rostrum, put forward an alternative vision to the program I have put forward, defend it with passion and with the conviction that your conscience dictates to you, vote according to your criteria, because, ladies and gentlemen, it will be an honour to listen to you and to debate with you. [[Applause.- Rumours.- Continue the applause with several ladies and gentlemen on their feet]] All I ask of you is that we do not contribute with our words to living together. We do not move from this rostrum more division to the street, more discord to the companies, more disagreement to the families. That, ladies and gentlemen, is patriotism too. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Groups and of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and of the members of the Government in office, put on their feet.-Applause from Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, candidate for the Presidency of the Government]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u20	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 12.30 p.m. It was ten and fifty-five minutes in the morning. The meeting resumed at 12.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We begin with the speaking times of the parliamentary groups. As you know, they will speak in an order of majority to minority, taking the last word of the parliamentary group to which the candidate for the Presidency of the Government belongs. Firstly, for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sanchez, are you sleeping well? Did you sleep well tonight? Did you manage to reconcile the dream after last night's lame show that your own investiture partners gave? [[Applauds]] Or does it happen to you like that 95% of Spaniards that you yourself said you couldn't reconcile the dream if the government pact that you have the shame of bringing to this House was perpetrated? [[Applauds]] It seems that you are interested in the genre of the dream, and, between mattresses and insomnia, we have a nightmare government here, especially for all the Spaniards who live in Catalonia. But be disillusioned, what you dream is not going to happen, but what you fear, and this government will be your political epitaph. Today it has turned the sand clock around, and in the end it will not come out for free: it will depend on the transfers it makes to its partners how quickly the grains fall. And remember that this is your fifth investiture session and that in the previous four failed; in fact, from the latter to the latter you have lost 800,000 votes, three seats, the dignity of presiding over a constitutionalist party... [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I say that you have lost three seats, 800,000 votes, the dignity of leading a constitutionalist party and the decency not to lie continuously and impudently. That you had to start your investiture speech saying that Spain is not going to break is something pathetic - you know the non-petita excuse -. In addition, this investiture starts just when the Central Electoral Board, at the request of the People's Party, has issued two important resolutions, the first referring to the former President of the Generalitat, to whom he is removed as an autonomous deputy for disobedience, being disqualified from holding a public office, including that of the highest representative of the Catalan Government, as envisaged by the Statute itself and also by the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime. Tora has said that she does not intend to acknowledge this decision and that she only responds to the Parliament of Catalonia, that is, that she again declares herself in flagrant disobedience to legality. He even withdrew the flag of Spain yesterday for a few minutes from the official headquarters. Mr. Sánchez, you swore to comply with and enforce the Constitution and the legislation in force. What are you going to do about this contempt? Are you going to allow an open-ended autonomous president to rebel against the state and intend to come to a parliamentary session, with this solemnity, without saying anything at all? Mr Sánchez, if Torra does not cease his office in the next few hours, you should initiate the requirement of fulfilling your constitutional obligations and, if you do not comply with them, you should immediately activate Article 155. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] And yes, for that he will have the support of the senators of the People's Party, whatever happens in the investiture session. But, if he doesn't, I remind him that he may be incurring in the prevarication, for making unjust resolutions for electoral and party revenue. And in that case, I assure you that we will act with the same firmness that we have had against Torra. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] In addition, the Central Electoral Board made it clear yesterday that it prevents Oriol Junqueras from acquiring Euro MP status as a result of the final conviction of the Supreme Court. The Government, even if it is in office, must also comply with and enforce this legality, not try to find subterfuges to bypass it or pressure the organs of the State, or even say that they are right-wing rattlesnakes. Nor are the statements of his spokesman about the Electoral Board, which applies a law approved with the votes of the Socialist and Convergence Party i Union during a government of the Socialist Party. A criminal imprisoned for an offence as serious as sedition should not be a valid interlocutor for negotiating an investiture. Can you imagine that President Calvo Sotelo had agreed with Tejero on the investiture? [[Rumors]] And I say this in front of Adolfo Suárez's son, who had the gallantness to face when they tried to coerce a minister; unlike you, who took his face off when they spat out the foreign minister. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Mr. Sánchez, five months ago I told you in this very rostrum who you really were, because after so many metamorphosis, so many masks, so many lies and you don't recognize yourself in the mirror, and you like to look in the mirror. Today he has even applauded his own speech; it is already the height of arrogance and fatitude. But his political trajectory is a grotesque reflection of those of Callejón del Gato, with a changing image, only depending on a sociopath's personal interest. I will simply say a few phrases, which may best sound to you: 'We cannot allow the governability of Spain to rest in independent parties'. 'No, it's not.' 'It's never ever'. 'False is false', you said about your pact with separatists - the truth is that it is well-bred. 'The order of the clear factors that alters the product: first law and then dialogue, there can be no dialogue without respect for the law'. That's the opposite of what you said here today. 'There is not much difference between what the ultra-right in Spain says and the independenceists in Catalonia, we have nothing to do with the Spanish Le Pen'. You weren't telling Mr. Abascal, you were telling Mr. Torra, your partner. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] There's more. He said: "Neither before nor after nor during will the PSOE agree with the populism of Podemos, with Churches nowhere." And there they are, clapping on their feet. [[Laughter]] 'I would be unable to agree with the populism that brings us to Venezuela of rations, I demand to Pablo Iglesias - he said - to explain his pact with Bildu in Navarre'. Of course, this was before you agreed with Bildu in Navarre. [[Applauds]] 'Don't call the killers of Isaiah Carrasco political prisoners', he was spitting at his vice president Churches after he threw the lime alive in his face - a whole well-advised marriage seems to be. 'A government must be thrown out of a party condemned for corruption'. Of course, unless you're socialist with the biggest case of latrociny in the history of democracy. [[Applauds]] And she's going to like it: 'The Spaniards deserve a government that doesn't lie to them'. Does that ring a bell? This was said by Mr. Rubalcaba. Apply the story, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] Because today we saw you talking about lies. He said, 'This government is going to fight the lies.' Hey, if you're a walking lie! You're talking about fighting fake news, and you're a fake president. How is it possible that you have the defiance to speak here of falsehoods and slander? But let me ask you another question: How did you get here? Because it brings us a session of hasty and almost clandestine investiture in the middle of the weekend and on the eve of Reyes, as if we were at the Oratory San Felipe Neri, which, with the partners that it brings us, I do not rule out that we have to use to defend our freedoms. And the most humiliating thing is that they have waited until the last hour to summon him, at the expense of a vote by an assembly led by an inmate who ended up shouting: Independence for Catalonia! Let me make one thing very clear, Mr Sánchez: you bring to this House an investiture agreement that you have sought and desired, not the one that you have not left behind because of others. This is what he wanted and this is what he has; he has never offered anything to anyone, he has done everything to make this happen. For that you hurried to announce, just one day after the election count, the pact with Podemos, with hilarious embrace included. The results of the contested tables, which, for example, gave us a seat in Vizcaya, were not yet known; the head of the State was not yet able to receive him back from his dramatic journey to Cuba; he was not yet worthy to return the call I made to him on the election night itself - and until today - because you wanted to quickly close any possibility according to the PP, especially because you suspected that his head might be at stake. That is why he urgently called for a consultation of his bases to shield his pact with Churches and embarked on a marathon of negotiations with all the unconstitutional alignment of this House and then he encouraged it with the conclusions of the PSC congress, which is the one that really rules in Ferraz. And after all this Berlinguian month he gave me credit as a tool of his negotiations; that is, I found out in one of his nodes, without questions. At that meeting, all I am required to do is to abstain from becoming vice president of Churches and without giving up the logbook with the populists, separatists and abertzales that we knew on the networks. Do you think this is serious? Mr Sánchez, you know you had an alternative, with two possible investiture, without depending on the separatists or the right-wing parties, but you didn't want to explore them. You could try to govern in solitary with the external support of the People's Party materialized in eleven pacts of state, which well gave to culminate a successful legislature for Spain, to put order in Catalonia, to throw Bildu from Navarre, to approve responsible budgets, an educational pact, an agreement in foreign policy, or on justice, or by water, or by electoral reform or against depopulation and gender violence. He just had to try the same investiture he brought here in 2016 with Citizens and Podemos, the pact of the other embrace, or, if not, try the pact without independenceists, with the abstention of Citizens, including the Navarra Suma coalition of which the People's Party is part, breaking with Bildu in Navarra, as requested by the president of UPN in May, which is not much to ask. Therefore, I announce that if you break the government of Miguel Ángel Revilla for the change of vote of the PRC, the PP will support it to give stability in Cantabria. What a paradox! What a paradox that the only support you had in the July investiture is now coerced to maintain your support for the indefensible! [[Applauds]] Paraphrasing our Nobel Laureate, Mr. Sánchez, I will ask you another question: When was it fucked not Peru but constitutional socialism? We already know that with you at all - the goat throws on the mountain -. This Frankenstein government that you're presenting here today is the fourth time you've tried. He intended to do so in 2016, before the Churches took off with that of the CNI, the Ministry of the Interior and Justice, and so his companions kicked him out of the General Secretariat of the Socialist Party, with the rock-rock episode of the urn and curtain through. Do you remember, Mrs. Díaz? How empty is the guest gallery of the Socialist Party's barons and what ardent silence yours, by the way! [[Applauds]] He also tried to do it in April. Let the electoral campaign, disguised as moderate, not make us forget that it was Churches that planted, there by the fourth ministry. By the way, on that occasion Esquerra Republicana gave him the abstention for free. You miss him, don't you? And it came to pass in the motion of censure against the People's Party government, based on another of its lies, because with the same arguments with which it cast Rajoy this House should have cast you for the ERE case, which is the most serious in the democratic history of Spain. [[Applauds]] But then we caught him negotiating in Pedralbes national sovereignty, and he had to dissolve and call elections for the social mobilization that our party led. Therefore, four attempts with the same clear objective, which also led him to win the primaries of his party, so he does not hold others responsible for their free and voluntary decisions. However, I will tell you that this drift is not yours exclusively. You know that the spiritual leader of your future vice president said that history happens twice, first as a great tragedy and then as a miserable farce. The tragic mistakes of his party with the Republican Left of Catalonia date back to the early 20th century, but, going to the recent historical memory, if we have to put an epicenter of the real anti-democratic tsunami, that was the Tinell Pact of 2003 and the infamous sanitary cordon against the People's Party that woven its party. It seems paradoxical that you come here to talk about sanitary cords, when you have exercised it for three hours. This pact was followed by the governments of Zapatero in 2004 and 2008, yielding to Esquerra Republicana the claims to repeal the LOCE, the National Hydrological Plan or change the autonomous financing, and then followed the tripartites of Maragall in 2003 and Montilla in 2006 and the unconstitutional status, which broke everything, and the Coalition of the Entesa de Progrés in the Senate and the declaration of Granada in 2004 and that of Barcelona in 2017 and the ignominious summit of Pedralbes in 2018. And from those dusts come these muds: from variable geometry to the disputed and questionable nation, from asymmetric federalism to plurinationality, from bilaterality to the nation of nations. All because of you, no one else; remember it. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, let me ask you another question: And all this, for what? What government justifies this bestiary of covenants? We have already seen it: a government against the state, the first coalition executive and the most radical in our democratic history, with communists, advisers of banana dictators and whitewashers of Batsuns and separatists. [[Rumors]] The thing about storming the skies must have been the Falcon, it's pretty clear. [[Applauds]] And above all they claim to call it progressive, after having heard the most retrograde program that has come to this House in the democratic era. [[Laughter]] In economic terms, it proposes a sharp rise in taxes; the repeal of the labour reform of the People's Party, which created 3 million jobs - more than 2 million jobs, being more accurate -; the diversion of deficit, debt and expenditure, which will cause massive unemployment and the bankruptcy of social security, as the PSOE achieved in 1996 and 2011, with Sánchez voting for cuts and the freezing of pensions, as it has just done now. [[Applauds]] I don't know how they don't fall for the shame of reproposing a massive deception to pensioners in this country, after what you did in 2011. And all this at a time when employment is at its worst in the last six years, economic growth has fallen by 2% and the deficit has doubled in relation to the commitment. How are you going to meet the EUR 7 billion required by the European Union to cut public spending, Mr Sánchez? Who are you lying to, Spain or the European Union? Or everyone? In the social sphere, they seek to impose a sectarian agenda on education, health, housing policy, liquidated the right to freedom of choice for families and private property itself. They retake Zapatero's social engineering with that identity collectivism as a flag, dividing society by gender, religion, income, ideology... even life habits! His speech today was scary, we have heard a war-civilist anti-clericalism that we have not heard in this House for a long time. [[Applauds]] In institutional matters, they threaten to appoint judges to their finger, to repeal the law that protects our State Security Forces and Bodies and to recover the international Bolivarian agenda in favor of the drug addictions of Cuba and Venezuela and their partners in countries such as Bolivia. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Are you going to explain what happened at the Mexican embassy, with the Spanish diplomatic staff in Bolivia, Mr. Sánchez? And the highlight is that they talk about regenerating public life, with all the cases of corruption that you have not yet informed Spanish public opinion about since the ERE ruling. And he's also talking about fighting tax fraud. Mr. Sánchez, have you looked at the blue bank, the cases you have of property irregularities and opaque institutions to evade tax payments? [[Greetings.-Mr. Garcés Sanagustín: Everyone, everyone. A few jets]] The highlight is that they talk about empowering the autonomous communities themselves that have suffocated them financially and discriminated against with nationalist prebendas. And here we come to the pact with the Basque Nationalist Party - an intolerable transfer - which comes to say that the structures of the State must be adapted to the territorial realities and that it no longer conceals the annexationist anxiety with Navarre, which is an insult to a fundamental outlaw community in the history of Spain, and not a mere appendix to an impossible independent Euskal Herria that we will never allow. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, the search for the government at any price is very expensive, at the cost of disgovernment and civic disintegration. 'It's better to lose the choices than to lose the soul'. These words of a socialist victim of terrorism like José Mari Múgica resound one day after Bildu's statement saying that his Government is the best for its purposes. [[Protests]] 'I have no doubt that you will close your eyes more often and say and do many more things that will freeze my blood, calling things by names that are not. At your feet they'll call them brave. How alone our dead have remained!' The mother of the socialist José Pagazaurtundua has also not heard the forgiveness of the Batasuns, who are in this House allowing with their essential abstention the investiture of a socialist like you. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]] And allow me one last quote: 'The 1978 Constitution does not establish democratic rules of play, and the first person who realized this was ETA'. This was said by his future vice president; terrible. And so, ladies and gentlemen, we come to the pact with Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia, which we do not yet know at this time whether it will have a thumb up or down, as in a Roman circus, but with the emperor imprisoned for a coup d'état. [[Applauds]] The trial had ended thanks to justice, and you have resurrected it and have de facto amnestyed its material authors. What a shame, Mr Sánchez, to sign a pact that breaks the equality of the Spaniards with a table of bilateral governments, degrading Spain to the level of autonomy, that violates the legality by saying that we must overcome the judicialization, giving for the fact - I imagine - that you will continue to pressure the Attorney General's Office of the State. He said today: Returning to politics a political conflict and leaving behind the judicial drift. This is a phrase that will pass to the annals of Spanish black history. What's this about a political conflict, Mr. Sanchez? What immoral equidistance is that? But what political conflict is there on the part of Catalans who burn down shops or have to emigrate or who ridicule their children in recreation or those who have to be escorted so that they do not be assaulted on the street by those of the independent kale borroka who today applauded him in the speech? What kind of political conflict is that, Mr. Sanchez? What moral eclipse do you bring to this House? [[Applauds]] You say that political conflict is a chronic ailment. Mr Sánchez, the only ailment that can be chronicled today in Spanish democracy is you. [[Applauds]] And fourthly, the pact he signed with Esquerra breaks national sovereignty by accepting a consultation of self-determination in Catalonia, as he said yesterday Esquerra Republicana - ask Mr Nuet -. Where is your promise to criminalize the illegal referendum that you made to ten million spectators in the last week of the election campaign? Will you support her when we bring her to this House for a vote? What about the modification of the Euroorder? And the prohibition of educational indoctrination? What about public propaganda in the media? And when we bring the reform of the Law on the Financing of Political Parties to prohibit funding to those led by seditious people who are already firmly condemned will support it? And when we amend the Parties Act, so that those convicted of rebellion or sedition cannot be convicted, separating their leaders and also with legal responsibility, as happens in corruption, so that those parties can also have the legal reproach of the courts? Mr Sánchez, were you lying when you were telling the Spaniards in the election debate that you would do everything possible to curb independence? You cannot commit to holding a consultation for Catalonia alone. What you can do is commit to calling general elections so that all Spaniards can decide what their partners are asking for once you have already discussed it with them. [[Applauds]] Declare it here. Say: Listen, if you ask me for something that is inconceivable to the Constitution, I pledge to dissolve the Courts and I pledge that it is not only the Catalans who vote for it, but all the Spaniards who vote for it. But he won't. And you know why he won't? Because, if I wore that on your show, the defeat would be gruesome. And that's why he hid it during the election campaign and that's why he lied to me when I asked him directly in the election debate. He already lost his referendum on November 10, and that was doped to the elections, with the CIS, with Spanish Television, twisting the real decrees, twisting the budget and even twisting the judicial agenda in Spain; yet he lost the referendum. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Now that we're in the centenary of Galdós, remember when I was saying that political morality is like a layer with so many patches that we don't already know what the primitive cloth is. That's your coat, Mr. Sanchez, and it's unrecognizable. Let it be very clear to you: the majority will of the Spanish people will prevail, and that will is not what is expressed in the pact for the disgovernment that it brings here today. This attempt to dismantle sovereignty can only merit the strongest exercise of national sovereignty and we will lead it. You demand your privilege, we will defend a law for all. You want to be considered first and the others to be second; we will reaffirm Spain as free citizens in law and equal before it. You proclaim the difference of rights and we proclaim the right of everyone to the difference, because we are essentially equal. This is not a political conflict but a legal one. This is not a territorial conflict but a moral one. This is a conflict between freedom and servitude, between Spanish modernity and nationalist and socialist archaism since today. The problem with Spain is not that it lacks democracy, but that you negotiate with those who attack democracy. [[Applauds]] And the Spaniards who have conquered our freedom every day despite you will continue to conquer it from now on in front of you. Above all, to those Catalans who look with concern at their pacts with the separatists today I tell them that Catalonia is Spain, a land of freedom, and will continue to be, despite who weighs it in their government. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, my last question for you is: Why are you doing this? Why does it take everyone and everything into the abyss? You came to power with a motion of censure to the Government and you intend to perpetuate yourself in it with a motion of censure to the State. That's why you don't just come here to get approval for a radical and failed program before you can even get started; you prefer to dress up as a populist to try to make sure you don't notice that you've become the leader of the coalition that wants to end constitutional Spain as we know it. No, we are not facing an investiture resulting from the constitutional consensus of 1978, we are facing an attempt to change the constitutional model. Our Constitution is not the problem, Mr Sánchez, it is the solution and the only possible model for a plural and decentralized country, but united and indivisible for centuries. Gabriel Cisneros, one of the four parents of the Constitution of our political family, who was attacked, shot and almost kidnapped by one of his partners, said that our Constitution implies a consensus, and that consensus implies resignations that force us to accept the text of it as a whole, including what we do not like and expressly adhering to it. So, what did you mean when you were talking this morning about resuming and acting in the face of the weakness of our system? You will be able to harm our nation, Mr. Sánchez, but you will not be able to put an end to it. Because the problem is neither Podemos nor Esquerra Republicana nor Bildu, the problem is you, who has given them a letter of nature making them partners in the governance of the country they intend to destroy. [[Applauds]] They do not cheat, but of course they will not succeed in destroying our nation, neither have the terrorists, nor the coups, nor even the communists who have already ruined other countries. Spain is much more, can much more and will do much more to defend itself and we will be the containment dam of any attempt at constitutional mutation through the back door or any illegal statutory modification. Do not forget, Mr Sánchez, that the vast majority of Spaniards feel part of their homeland before voting for a party, also the majority of socialist voters feel earlier Spanish than anything else and will make you an anecdote in our history, which has survived worse situations than this, when they withdraw their support in the upcoming elections. I want the Spaniards to know that we will face this operation of constitutional overthrow, that we will be here, in Parliament and in the courts, and in the autonomous, provincial and municipal governments; that we will be in the centers of work and study, with young people, families, the elderly; that we will be in the cities and in the villages, in the streets and in the squares. There will be no recourse that we do not use to combat the claim to end Spain. And don't worry, we'll win and you'll lose. [[Applauds]] The separatists, the Batasuns, the populists, led by the Socialist Party, will lose. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the founding mission of the party that I chair was to unite all that was on the right of the left, but now our responsibility is to regroup all constitutionalism, including those socialists ashamed of what you are doing. The People's Party has always been willing to sacrifice itself for Spain, but not to sacrifice Spain by supporting an irresponsible like you in your presidency. [[Applauds]] You can't keep playing the Russian roulette with our country and pretend that we put the bullet on it. We are going to ask for the union of all Spaniards to overcome this unfortunate trance. To all of them, who for forty years have proved to be a moderate citizen of a modern country, who have verified the success of our regime of freedoms and who see with immense concern what is happening, to all of them, I want to say that the priority now is to defend the nation. Let's forget the small differences, left and right; now it only matters Spain and Spain will not give up. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. Today Spain runs out of constitutional socialism and you, Mr Sánchez, are responsible. [[Rumors]] And that's all it is. There will be no public spending capable of saving the distance between your political reality and your personal ambition. Today, you put at risk the basis of our social and democratic rule of law, which is national sovereignty and respect for the Constitution and, consequently, you are unable to build anything that can be qualified as social. Having disguised yourself as moderate and trying to blame us not only does not help you to reduce the seriousness of what you have decided to do today, but it makes it harder for you because it means that you know that that is businessable and that it doesn't matter. Such a person does not deserve the confidence of any democrat; he certainly does not deserve that of my parliamentary group. Today is also a bad day for Spain and the Socialist Party because it is the day when Spanish democratic socialism disappeared to take the lead of a radicalised coalition of government, which challenges all the contribution that socialist politicians have made to Spain's progress over the past forty years and which denies what others have made. You do not correct but it leads to its last consequences the sectarian drift that Zapatero activated fifteen years ago. This is the decision that will mark your personal political history. You agree with a party that considers ETA the vanguard of democracy, justifying the murder of socialists, as the heirs of Batasuna continue to do. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Ask them if they condemn the murder of innocent people in Spain, ask them. How was that 'the evil that could be assumed', which Mr. Otegi said on public television? You agree with people who question our political form, national sovereignty and the headship of the State and call for the abolition of the parliamentary monarchy. You agree with those who think that our Transition was a farce and that coexistence must give way to sectarianism and harmony to revisionism of historical memory; remember, that agreement that is the common ground of agreement and disagreement, in the words of Julián Marias. You agree with active defenders of dictatorships whose humanitarian devastation is already apocalyptic. It deals with those who hate Europeanism, the rule of law, the Constitution, individual freedom, private property and the market economy, all that has been built on the best period in the history of Europe and Spain. You agree with those who will lead us, of course, to a dramatic crisis in our welfare state, with those who will impoverish us, with those who will twist unemployment and leave a new generation of young Spaniards without a future. It deals with them, and takes them to the Government of Spain, that is to say to the Government of what they do not want to exist. Mr Sánchez, today you seal a pact to destroy all the pacts, to undo four decades of freedom and progress. You will bring our country back to the internal conflict and to European irrelevance, and you will bring it to the moral level of the worst, of those who do not know what they are talking about, of those who never get it right, of those who always leave us much worse. They will return to the divisive agenda, to confrontation, polarization and reformist paralysis, and will harm families, investors and our entire productive fabric in order to achieve nothing. At the heart of the public debate will be an eccentric, capricious and disoriented agenda of the real needs of the Spaniards. It will continue the helplessness of the judges and the harassment borroka again. It will compromise with those who intend to destroy our system of freedoms, will alter the balance between powers and will cheat on the legislative instruments. He will accept that equality between Spaniards will be broken and that he will re-market with his rights. [[Rumors]] You will negotiate freedoms that are not yours and that you will have promised to protect. And when everything goes wrong, he'll try to resist at the expense of everything and everyone. In short, you sign the condensation of everything that should not be done. I'm done, Madam President. [[Rumors]] Mr Sánchez, I want the opposite of what you are presenting today in this House. I want a project that favors encounter and coexistence, that strengthens the law and institutions. [[Rumors]] A project for the public service and not for the occupation of power. A project for the effective freedom of all, for policies to respect and promote the dignity of all, for the principle of non-discrimination to be a reality and for us to remove the obstacles that prevent many from moving where they want and where they want. I want a project that closes the link between territories, generations and accents. I want a project to make more society and better governance, more freedom, more diversity, more responsibility, more enterprise, more innovation, more culture, more solidarity, more employment, more cohesion, more education, more progress, more wealth, more well-being. But you're... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u24	Mr Sánchez, you keep us away from the economic and political core of which we have to be an essential part. And it does so to the satisfaction of those who in these forty years have contributed nothing, have added nothing, have contributed nothing but the opposite. You must have an almost sick idea of your own political value, if you consider that you can pay such a high price with everyone's historical heritage to achieve your investment. By giving himself to the worst radicals he may be president of the government, but he will not be able to rule. I can only regret it and announce that we will do everything in our hand so that the nightmare time in which you have decided to sink is brief and does the least harm possible. You have definitely placed yourself on the wrong side of the story but you will not be able to drag us with you, not us or Spain. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, in the Congress put on their feet.-Applause from the Member of the Joint Group]] [[Forum Asturias]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u25	Thank you, Mr. Casado. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Casado, for the moderation in your speech. [[Laughter and applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Pode-Galicia in Communal]] The year 2019 ended and with it the supposed turn to the moderation of Mr.Married; it is time to shave his beard again. [[Laughter and applause from the Socialist Group Members of the European Parliament]] Please note, Mr. Married, that I have listened to your speech very carefully. [[Several Members: Yes, I'm sure.-A lady Member: She's writing it.- Rumours]] Man, of course I have it written! It is that you have been repeating for fifteen months 'the end of Spain and the end of the world' - which does not arrive - with the same arguments!For let me prepare the interventions! [[Applause from the Socialist Group. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you very much for your excellent report.]] I have listened, Mr. Married, to your intervention carefully - as I said - and I have observed... [[Rumors]] A little respect, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Let us remain silent and listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u28	A little respect, ladies and gentlemen. I have noticed that you have been given a little detail, Mr Casado, and that the elections have been held, and you have lost them and the Socialist Party has won them. In fact, in 2019 five elections have been held, the five elections won by the Socialist Party and the five elections lost by the People's Party. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]] Mr. Married, I think you'd do me a favor if you started to assume it, that is, if I went up to this rostrum and said, "Hello, I'm Pablo Married and I've lost five elections in a year." [[Laughter and applause from the Socialist Group Members of the European Parliament]] I say it with the utmost respect because it would be the first step to stop losing, because I would begin to understand why citizenship has told you five times in a year that not to you and your party. [[protests]] [[Protests]] Mr. Married, to know how to win one day, one must first know how to lose with decorum. [[Rumors]] You, Mr Casado, did not settle for blocking the formation of the progressive government that the Spanish voted on 10 November. When you saw that the votes were not enough for you, you and the far right have used all kinds of legal and extra-legal devices to try to sabotage the formation of the Government. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]] Mr. Married, you have done wrong things from a candidate for the Presidency of the Government. I repeat: you have done improper things for a candidate for the presidency of the Government. He won't get away with it because the maneuvers, in addition to twisters, i.e. cheaters, are too obvious and are going to turn against him. [[Applauds]] And when you think about it, you'll better understand why you're the first leader to lose five elections in a year, because if you want to win, Mr. Married, you need to know how to lose. We must learn to lose, Mr. Married, just as we must learn to win. Look, I recognize you... [[Rumors]] Yeah, of course you do, listen to me, if you're gonna understand me perfectly. [[Rumors]] Listen to me. I recognize that the lefts won in April and we were unable to agree. The Spaniards told us in November that we had to agree and we have understood the message, but to you the Spaniards have said not one or two or three, but five times in less than a year that does not and still does not understand the message, still does not change an apex, nor a millimeter its message. You will see, Mr Casado, I have said this before in my speech and I repeat it again because it seems important to me: here we are not going to break Spain and we are not going to break the Constitution; we are going to break the blockade on the government that the Spanish voted democratically on 10 November. [[Applauds]] I have told you before: the composition of Parliament has not been elected by us, it has been voted by the Spanish; it has been decided by the Spanish by their vote. Each of us, Your Honor, would have wished for a different outcome. I have no objection to recognizing that I am, logically, satisfied with winning the elections, but I would have wanted to win with a much broader majority, of course. I am sure that you, Mr Casado, although it is true that you appear very smiling in all the election days, will not have been pleased to have the two worst results in the history of the People's Party, nor, Mr Casado, would you have liked to feel the breath in the cogote of the far right and I suppose you would have liked to win the elections. [[applause]] I also assume that Mrs Arrimadas will not have been pleased to lose four out of five seats in six months and that her political party is about to disappear. The same, I imagine, that Mr Abascal, since he also has a goal as ambitious as saving Spain - nothing more and nothing less, Mr Abascal what he wants is saving Spain - will want to save it today and not wait four years for elections to take place and save it then. [[Rumors]] What I want to say with this, Mr Casado, is that each and every one of us would have wanted a different, better result in the election results. I therefore repeat what I said at the beginning: the composition of this Parliament has not been elected by us, by the Spanish. But we, as I said in my first speech, have to translate that composition of Parliament into government and that is what we are humbly doing in this investiture session. That is where they are going to draw, I said earlier in my speech, Mr Casado, ladies and gentlemen of the House, three different positions. There is a Spain that wants to move forward in the face of the challenges facing our country and we, in less than forty-eight hours, have agreed with Unidad Podemos to form a progressive coalition. So we add... [[Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, listen calmly. If nothing happens, I'm not saying anything but just the election results. Thus we add one hundred and fifty-five seats, which are, by the way, more than the sum of PP, VOX and Citizens. We add one hundred and fifty-five seats, we have then added other forces and we are above one hundred and sixty-five seats in a Parliament as fragmented as we have. Some have also chosen to abstain to allow progress. They are not partners in government, but do not prevent the formation of government. There I would like to thank the attitude of Esquerra Republicana, who has decided to allow government to be formed. [[protests]] It has been negotiated, agreed and made public. We don't have those private pacts... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u30	And finally, there is a Spain that wants to block, that has no horizon and that does not propose exits, without alternative. In this field, the truth is that there are people and parties of different coats, a rather varied field, ladies and gentlemen: there are Spanish ultranationalists, there are Catalan ultranationalists, there are ultra-right people, there are also anti-system people. What do you all agree on, ladies and gentlemen? They agree at a central point, which is to block, to prevent the formation of the government. Your proposal is no to everything. Ladies and gentlemen, let us go to the heart of the matter, because this is the important thing. [[Rumors]] Why don't you want the government formed? Why don't you want it, after two general elections in 2019 and five electoral processes that you lost in 2019? [[Mr.Betoret Coll: Tell us the deal with Esquerra!-Rumors]] I repeat, Mr. Married: you are three million different from the worst Mariano Rajoy. Therefore, lessons the just. [[Applauds]] Why don't you want a government? Why doesn't a government want the right of this country? Everyone has their reasons, but there is an answer that defines everyone's attitude - from VOX to the CUP, from the People's Party to Junts per Catalunya - everyone thinks the worse, the better. [[Applauds]] Let us see the case of the largest party in that block of the blockade and, by the way, the most active party in the blockade. This is the case of Mr Casado and the People's Party. Mr Casado says that the People's Party will vote against because - I will translate it into more respectful colloquial terms - a coalition government... [[Rumors]] Listen, there's nothing wrong with that, either. He says that a government of progressive coalition, and that it is also elected with the abstention of nationalist and independenceist parties, is going to be terrifying for Spain. This is what you have held with much thicker words than mine. To quote your words, which you said a few days ago, Mr Casado, you said that Spain is wrong and has prospects and looks to go down the cliff. Moderate and measured words that we are used to listening to. If that scenario is as terrifying as you say, Mr. Married, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, why do you not abstain? [[Rumors]] They've got it pretty simple. Thirteen abstentions from the People's Parliamentary Group, thirteen patriotic abstentions would suffice. I could even speak with Mrs Arrimadas: seven from the People's Parliamentary Group and half from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And, therefore, there would be no problem that the abstention of Republican Left was relevant to the investiture of my person. [[Applauds]] Then Mr. Married says no, no, no. [[Herrero Bono: We have to listen!-Strong protests]] Mr Casado says that this is unacceptable because the People's Party cannot abstain, because it is going to form a coalition government with the United Nations. We think it would be fatal for Spain. [[Mrs. Beltrán Villalba: You say that.-Rumores]] This is what Mr. Married comes to say. It is curious that you say this, Mr Casado, and that now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, the coalition with Unidad Podemos seems to you wrong, when in summer you praised the dignity of Unidad Podemos by entering the coalition government. In any case, if the problem is the presence of the United Nations We can in the Government, what I humbly ask you - although you can say anything you want - is: why did you not abstain after the April elections, when there was no agreement with the United We can to form a coalition government? [[Applauds]] Mr Casado says that neither, that no, that the problem is that the People's Party cannot be abstained, because then Spain would have no opposition. That's fake again. The Socialist Party abstained and held such a serious opposition to Rajoy that it made him pay for corruption cases with a motion of censure. [[a Member of Parliament: But you don't!]] [[Several honourable Members make negative signs.-Strong protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u32	Let's just say the real thing. You don't abstain because your strategy is the worse, the better. Besides, that's always been the case, ladies and gentlemen. It's always been that way. [[Several Members: No! No!-Mrs. Beltrán Villalba: That's it.-Rumors]] You've paraphrased Vargas Llosa, you've talked about constitutional socialism... [[Rumors]] [[Strong rumors.-A honourable Member: They are always the same]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to hold the debate in a position to listen to the person who has the floor and is currently the candidate for the Presidency of the Government. Please, respect and silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u34	You remember Spain and the Constitution when it suits you. They are a party that was half in the constitutional consensus; in fact, half of your deputies at the time abstained, and your refounder, Mr Aznar, for whom you worked, Mr Casado, wrote articles against the Constitution when he submitted to a referendum. The truth is that the Constitution is forged by a centre-right party, the unfortunately disappeared UCD, the Socialist Party, the Communist Party of Spain and moderate nationalism. [[Applauds]] You are very Atlantist, United States and so on, but when it comes to making a referendum on NATO you play against it, to see if you take the Gonzalez government ahead. They talk about ETA and terrorism all the time. Today you have done it again, and I do not want to use any sort of qualification because it would exceed me in the appraisals. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Do it!]] They talk about ETA and terrorism all the time, and when they ruled, of course, they logically demanded all the support, and rightly so, to fight ETA and also to negotiate with ETA. But when they are no longer in the government, support is over and then they say Zapatero betrayed the dead, when he and Rubalcaba were the ones who broke up with ETA. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Government in office, on the ground]] You're very patriotic, very patriotic... [[Mrs Jiménez-Becerril Barrio: Here you have your heirs!- Mrs Jiménez-Becerril Barrio points to the EH Bildu Group.-Protests.-Applause from the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group, some of them standing, addressed to Mrs Jiménez-Becerril Barrio]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u35	Congresswoman, please. [[Protests]] I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u36	You're very patriotic, ladies and gentlemen. They demand the loyalty of the Socialist Party when they are in the opposition to help and hold their shoulders under very difficult circumstances that Spanish democracy approached in 2017, but they are tremendously disloyal, as we have seen today in the rostrum, when they are in the opposition. You criticise, for example, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a bilateral commission between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generalitat. You forget, ladies and gentlemen, that bilaterality exists not only in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, but also in the statutes of autonomy of Andalusia, Aragon, the Canary Islands, Castile and León and even, ladies and gentlemen, exists in the Statute... [[Protests]] Well, let me explain. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, please let me ask you again to respect the use of the floor. Please refrain from commenting aloud. Each parliamentary group has its representative appointed for this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u38	Even look, Mr. Casado?as much as you criticize bilaterality?, the Statute of Autonomy of Extremadura in its article 71 recognizes the bilaterality between Extremadura and a foreign government, the Government of Portugal. [[Applauds]] That statute, Mr Casado, was voted by the Socialist Party and the People's Party in the Extreme Parliament and the Parliament of Spain. [[Applauds]] They talk about consultations, consultations, the referendum. Eleven autonomous statutes, ladies and gentlemen, eleven autonomous statutes recognize the ability to convene consultations and referendums, not only Catalonia, also Andalusia, Asturias, La Rioja, Murcia, Valencia, Aragón, Canarias, Navarra, Baleares, Castile and León. Mr. Casado, are you going to bring all these statutes to the Constitutional or, rather, to the Central Electoral Board? [[Applauds]] When you needed the Socialist Party's abstention in order to form a government, you, Mr Casado, said: 'Let us imagine that the Socialist Party takes fifty-two seats and 2.5 million votes from the People's Party. Could anyone understand that we blocked the investiture of the socialist leader?'. More seats, more votes we took in the April elections and their vote we saw what it was. One question, Mr Casado: If a Spaniard does not vote for the People's Party is a Spanish evil? [[Rumors]] Mr. Married, what's the problem? You said it in the end. When you run out of arguments and don't know how to go about it, you help the last resource, and that's that the problem is sanchismo, it's Sanchez. That's the problem. According to you, Mr. Married, in your softer, lighter version, I am the worst president in the history of democracy. [[Several honourable Members: Yes! Yes! Yes!]] I'm the worst. Am I the worst? [[Several honourable Members: Yes! Yes! Yes!]] The truth is that it sounds impressive, ladies and gentlemen, because you see what you said about Mr. Rubalcaba. Rubalcaba - said Mr Arenas - is worse than Felipe González and Zapatero together, because he worked with the two. [[Rumors]] So, the question to be asked, ladies and gentlemen, is, was Zapatero then good? Neither. I'll remind you of a few pearls you dedicated to Zapatero. 'The Zapatero government is the worst that Spain has had.' This was said by Mrs. De Cospedal. [[Rumors]] The longer Zapatero is president, the worse it will be for Spain. That's what Rajoy used to say. Well, we've seen, ladies and gentlemen, that I don't like a hair, not even me at all. [[Rumors]] We saw that you hated Rubalcaba too. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Will you shut up? If you'd let him talk!]] We've seen Zapatero was diabolical. [[Rumors]] So did they like Felipe González? Well, neither. They also dedicated a few hijackings to Felipe González when he was president of the government. I'll remind you of some. By the way, I think it's the same hand, Mr. Casado, who wrote you the speech that you went up to the rostrum. [[Laughs.-Applause.-Speaks.]] Mr Aznar said, Mr Casado, about González - listen to you for a moment because, really, it is more or less a revival - that it was despicable, hysterical, teacher of deception, opportunist and blackmailer. In case there was little of that whole cascade of epithets that you prophesied to Mr. González then, when he was president, his number two then, Alvarez-Cascos, who then founded a party and then came back, assured Mr. González, and I quote textually, that it was rot and had no other way than the dumpster. All this to end your memorable 'go, Mr González' message. That is, the mechanism is very simple, ladies and gentlemen: the bad, the very bad, is the socialist leader who is in the government and the good is the one who is no longer. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] As soon as a socialist leader ceases to be, ladies and gentlemen, he becomes very good and you yearn for him very much. Look, let's say things as they are, you block all possibilities of forming government and then you say that other elections are preferable. You have said so in text, Mr. Casado. You said, in October, before the elections on 10 November, that the only way to unlock the situation in Spain is for the People's Party to win the elections. Mr. Married is, as I told you before, three million votes from the worst Rajoy. So, after five elections lost in a year, how many elections does Mr. Married need? Ten? Twenty? Thirty? [[A Member of Parliament: What about you?]] As long as it takes until, out of electoral fatigue, it is understood that there is only one Government in Spain if the People's Party forms that Government. Then yes, then you will go to the Socialist Party, ask for a responsible and patriotic abstention to govern the most voted force. Of course, for the sake of Spain and for the sake of the Constitution. [[Applauds]] I will tell you what is happening to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group. You say that Spain hurts you, but what really hurts you is not to rule Spain, and that pain makes you unbearable! [[Applauds]] That's why you block and block, and after blocking you're looking for excuses to keep blocking. But this, ladies and gentlemen, is not the only case of double standards in the People's Party. Mr Esteban will allow me to simply cite an example of the Basque Nationalist Party. Let's see what happens to the Basque Nationalist Party, ladies and gentlemen, because it's very interesting. There is an example, I think quite illustrative of what we are talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to announce to you that there is a good PNV for the right, and it is the one that supports the People's Party; and there is a bad, bad PNV, which is the one that supports the Socialist Party. With the PNV you agree; the Socialist Party does what it does is give in. And so, we come to the ridiculous extreme of saying that giving up traffic skills in Navarre is the height of shame, when they were transfers agreed twenty years ago by the President of the Government, Aznar. [[Applauds]] Dialogue with Bildu, ladies and gentlemen, is atrocious, atrocious, but only if the Socialist Party does. If it is done by the People's Party, it is something much healthier. Look what the current resident in Sotosalbos, former mayor of Vitoria, spokesman in the Senate of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Maroto, and I quote textually, Mr Maroto, - you will remember the phrases just as I did because he proffered them -: I have had the courage - Mr Maroto said - to reach understandings with you - refers to Bildu -. [[laughs]] And Mr. Maroto also said: There is no inconvenience to the agreement, the agreement is good. And if it's ETA, what am I going to tell you, ladies and gentlemen? If the People's Party was negotiating with ETA, or - as Mr Aznar said - with the Basque National Liberation Movement, that is good for Spain, but if Rubalcaba or Zapatero did, who ended up with ETA - I insist, they defeated ETA - it was theirs to betray the dead. [[Mr. García Aegean: Don't tell any more lies, man!]] And to Rubalcaba, whom you now so long for, you came to ask for his resignation forty-six times and compared it to Roldán. [[Applauds]] Is it possible to go further in the vile use of terrorism and the pain of the victims? Yes, you can, ladies and gentlemen, your spokesman did it a few weeks ago, when he said that the situation in Spain today is worse than when ETA was killing; and you did, Mr Casado, when you said that Catalonia was following the same strategy as ETA in the Basque Country. The double standard reaches all aspects, in particular coexistence. You have a patent of course to offend and insult, but poor of the one who dares to offend you. If an actor, someone outside politics, slips in and says an inconvenience about the mayor of Madrid, which I think is wrong, they fall on top of the sky, but you can throw at the president of the government nineteen insults chained, starting with felon, ending with okupa, and it seems to them the most normal. Mr. Casado, Spain is not the PP, and the Constitution is not the PP. The PP is within Spain and the Constitution, but fortunately Spain and the Constitution are much larger than the People's Party. [[Applauds]] This progressive coalition, Mr Casado, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, is made up of men and women as Spanish as you are, and has been voted by Spaniards as Spanish as those who vote for the People's Party. We are moved by patriotic feelings of pursuit of the common good as respectable at least as yours and link to the Constitution and democracy at least as powerful bonds as those you exhibit. The difference between you and us is that your version of the Constitution consists of one article: It is constitutional what the PP does and it is unconstitutional what the PP does not do. [[Applauds]] For Mr Casado and the People's Parliamentary Group, the Constitution is summarized in a single article, and is that it governs the People's Party. No, Mr. Married, what the Constitution says is that it governs who gets the majority confidence of this House, and that is what is going to happen on 7 January. [[Applauds]] So much that you speak of Spain, Mr Casado, do you really believe that VOX, that the CUP, that Junts per Catalunya, that you are with which you are going to block the investiture of the Presidency of the Government, what you want is a stronger Spain? And now you rise to the rostrum and all you offer is blocking and describing an apocalyptic panorama, apart from repeating the false legend of the economic management of the People's Party. I am not going to go into it because we will have an opportunity throughout the legislature. [[Protests]] No, I only say to you, Mr Casado, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, that the evocation of your economic management is no longer believed in Alcalá-Meco. [[Laughs.-Applause.-Speaks.]] What I am saying to you, Mr Casado, is that if your project in Spain is so formidable and the progressive government will carry all these misfortunes that you describe, why have the Spaniards turned their backs five times in a year and given five victories to the Socialist Party? [[Rumors]] Have you stopped to think where you leave all that to yourself? [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] If you have such a formidable project for Spain, Your Honor, why do the Spaniards turn their backs on you? Listen carefully, I'll explain to you why, ladies and gentlemen. I will explain it to you, Mr Casado, I will explain to you why the Spanish turn their backs five times in a year to the People's Party: because your idea of Spain, the idea of Spain that you have, Your Honor, is fearful of the changes; it is outdated in the face of progress; it is cowardly in the face of diversity; it is closed to the outside; it is the vision of a losing and dark Spain, insecure of itself and relegated to itself. [[Applauds]] If you have a splendid solution for Catalonia, Mr. Casado, why don't the Catalans and all the Spanish and your party are about to disappear in Catalonia? I will also explain it to you: because you have no answer for Catalonia. Their only response has already been demonstrated during the seven years they ruled: two illegal referendums, a unilateral declaration of independence and all the broken bridges. And now look at what a formidable future response you have that you are voting for the same thing as Mr Puigdemont and the CUP: the blockade. [[Applauds]] What I invite you, Mr Casado, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, is to accept the obvious, to accept electoral defeat, to abandon tremorism, to help build bridges over the enormous differences that we have. There are measures that we can push in the face of the six major challenges I have said before in terms of employment, pensions, feminism, combating inequality, digital transformation of the economy, climate change, Europe in the world. In short, there are many things in which I am convinced that the Spanish citizens - regardless of whether they vote for the Socialist Party or the People's Party - would be happy to find these two political formations in the agreement. In short, Mr Casado, I invite you to begin by accepting the will of the Spaniards, who have already spoken many times in the ballot box, to turn your back on the far right - to their exaggerations, their hyperboles, their ruling phrases - to undo that front of a contranature blockade that keeps with all sorts of extremists, to accept the diversity of Spain, to accept that the diversity of Spain is an asset and not a liability, that re-centralisation is not the solution of anything, that assumes that the market does not solve everything, that the State must meet social needs, that there are freedoms and rights that Spanish society will not be allowed to take away. In short, Mr Casado, that Spain wants to move forward, does not want to block, does not want to back down. And that to block or back off is already the far right, which in extremism beats you on the street. [[Applause from the Socialist Group, from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u39	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Definitely, Mr. Sanchez, you haven't slept well today. [[Laughter]] You come here with a written, sleepwalking replica to try to wash your bad conscience. Try to continue insulting the opposition, even remembering something that will be very familiar to you, because we have five more seats than you took when you presented yourself to the Presidency of the Government. You don't talk about electoral defeats, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] In fact, you are the candidate for the presidency of the Government with the slightest result in seats coming to this House. I'm gonna pick up the glove on the question you were asking. Why doesn't he come here and say: Hi, I'm Pedro Sánchez - I don't get the same tone as when he imitates his vice president in pectore - and I'm the first president of the government functions that will agree with the heirs of Batasuna, with the independenceists and with the communists to remain in power, in La Moncloa I don't know who writes the replicas to him, Mr Sánchez; I hope it isn't who writes the books to him. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] [[Laughs.-Applause.]] See that you have had time to present yourself to this investiture and to have prepared a debate beyond those two hours of that warehouse philosophy, of those common places, of that arrogance, of that fatal arrogance, to say nothing at all. What we have seen is a trick by a knocked out president, who does not know how to explain, even to his bench, why he has given a turn, the umpteenth turn in his political trajectory. Mr Sánchez, why did you get kicked out of the General Secretariat of the Socialist Party? Why did they kick him out, other than for trying to pull a punch behind a curtain? Why do you bring Mr. Rubalcaba's name here on the day on which the Frankenstein Government perpetrated and, according to Mr. Rubalcaba himself, stopped speaking to him for accusing him? [[Laughter]] He said it in an interview with Susana Griso. [[Applauds]] I, out of respect for Mr Rubalcaba, am not going to say what I thought of you, Felipe González has made it public; Zapatero is the one who is very happy with what you have brought here, nor did he dare so much. Now, for you to come to this House to remember the legacy of Zapatero, I believe that more than boldness is fearlessness. [[Laughter]] Rodriguez Zapatero plunged Spain into the worst crisis in our recent history. [[Several Members: Hala! Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come]] Because of Zapatero's socialism, 3 million Spaniards went to the streets, with their votes. [[Applauds]] How can it be tolerated, therefore, that the party which destroyed the national economy, which left Spain on the verge of an international rescue which had led the pensioners to a cut in their 40 % benefit, which had led those who had a public salary to a cut of 30 % of their salary, as happened in Greece or Ireland or Portugal, that had led the unemployed to a cut in their unemployment benefit of almost half, how could the Socialist Party possibly come to laugh at those pensioners, the unemployed and those young people who emigrated just a few years later? [[Applauds]] It is indecent that they boast of the worst economic and antisocial legacy in Spanish history. And you know the worst, Mr. Sanchez? That you were there, that you were a deputy, that you voted for the freezing of pensions, that you voted for the biggest cut; as your Secretary of State for Social Security, Octavio Granado, says: we made it fatal. Of course they did, and what we think here is that we must oppose the Government so that it does not return to those dark pages the economy, the welfare state and the benefits that we had won among all during these forty years. Therefore, of course you are a danger to the prosperity of this country, and I ask you again: How are you going to square that election program? How do you keep lying, Mr. Sanchez? Ask your finance minister. You've already presented the accounts with Podemos here, they've already been laid down in the European Union. I was also lying that they were going to accept them. How are you going to cut €7 billion in spending if the calculations we have made can raise up to €30 billion in public spending the promises you have made with your Podemos partners? And, above all, why do you continue to elude the explanation of why you have agreed with Squerra Republicana de Catalunya what the Constitution does not allow? It is not true that consultations are allowed only in part of the State on what is the responsibility of the entire Spanish nation. [[Applauds]] That's not true. Mr Sánchez, read article 1 and article 2 of the Spanish Constitution: The Spanish nation is unique and indivisible. There are not eight nations, as Mr. Miquel Iceta says. Do you authorize that expression of Mr. Miquel Iceta? Do you agree that Madrid - it has said even Madrid - can be a nation, as the secretary general of the Socialist Party of Madrid said? Do you agree with Mr. Iceta, who says there may be seven, eight or nine - I have told them say Iceta - between dancing and dancing? But what defachability is this, Mr. Pedro Sánchez? [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Spain is a single nation and we will defend the national unity, the People's Party, the antipodes to the ignominy that you represent. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) and Members of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Bravo!]] Do you know what the worst of all is, Mr. Sanchez? That he laughs, that Spain cares nothing. He doesn't care that there are eight nations, that it's a disputed and questionable nation, that it's plurinational; it doesn't matter exactly. You only care about the oropel of power, the coat of armion; you only care about your deformed mirror, you only care about your fatal arrogance. [[A Member: That's it]] We care about the future of our nation, but for our children, also for yours, and what can't be that you come here to present a program that you couldn't even read because it embarrasses you, that you present documents in which you don't quote nor the Constitution because you're ashamed of it and that you intend to overflow it through the back door, through a gate, and there you're going to meet a People's Party that won't allow it. We will present the previous appeal of unconstitutionality to any status of autonomy that seeks to change the national sovereignty of the Spanish people who reside as a whole in the General Courts. [[Applauds]] Look, neither Juan José Ibarretxe had the courage to try to subvert what is marked by the legislation in force. He presented a bill in the Basque Parliament and came to the Spanish Courts, where his plan was rejected, by the way, also thanks to the criminalization of the illegal referendum introduced by the People's Party and the penalties that could result in an illegal consultation. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, do not give us lessons on the Spanish Constitution. There are four parents of the Constitution, four rapporteurs of the Constitution, who are in our political family. Does Manuel Fraga ring a bell? Does Miguel Herrero de Miñon ring a bell? Does José Pedro Pérez-Llorca ring a bell? Does Gabriel Cisneros ring a bell? A? Do you hear Gabriel Cisneros? [[Applauds]] You've agreed with Otegi. For you is a man of peace, a patent of course, the one who was prosecuted and has not yet been clarified, who was able to shoot in the belly of a father of the Constitution, rather than recognizing that the People's Party is a systemic and fundamental pillar of the constitutional system? Do you prefer to be president by changing the system of the Constitution instead of being opposition by maintaining the rules of the game that you and we agreed on in 1978? But what kind of immorality do you claim, Mr. Sanchez? [[A Member: Yes, sir]] [[Protests]] If you have the courage to propose a reform of the Constitution, I have told you. It leads to the dissolution of the Courts, it leads to elections, it leads to the voting of that constituent statement and, therefore, it leads to the ratification of the entire Spanish people. But don't pretend to mutate it through the back door, don't pretend to be just invested with the worst enemies of the Spanish nation. It is not a hyperbole, they say it, they said it this morning in the national assembly - they say of the Republican Left of Catalonia, said yesterday Mr Torra, says it even his secretary general of the Socialist Party of Catalonia. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, do not give us lessons from anything, nor from corruption. Ask Mrs Calvo, Mrs Montero and Mr Planas what was being said at the Governing Council in Chaves and in Griñán, because they have solidarity responsibility and are sentenced to imprisonment and to disqualification. [[Applauds]] Ask yourself. The hundred years of honesty have ended in three hundred years in prison for the corrupt socialism of Andalusia that you augurated to the General Secretariat. [[Applauds]] Lessons to me from corruption, not one, and neither to this party. [[Applauds]] Report the EREs, explain it to all Spanish citizens. Two months without talking about the EREs, which is the case of the greatest latrociny in the democratic history of Europe and Spain, by the way. [[Applauds]] And don't you defame me. The Senate spokesman never received Bildu's support for either the investiture or a budget. [[Protests.-Various ladies and gentlemen: Nooo!]] If Bildu supported any law passed at the City Hall of Vitoria, it would be because they wanted to. [[Protests.-Various ladies and gentlemen: Ahhh!]] Here your abstention is essential. Do not compare me an urban waste collection rate with the need for you to... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u41	Ladies, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u42	I'm done, Madam President. Mr. Sanchez, we're still on the centenary of Galdós. I was saying something else about you, I'm going to say, a hundred years later. He said that a man without ideal is like the lame beggar who is in the middle of the road asking for alms to whoever he is without knowing who he is. That's what you do, it doesn't matter to ask the People's Party to abstain than to Citizens than to those of Bildu than to those of Esquerra than to those of Junts per Cat than to those of Podemos. You don't care, because you alone care, and Spain, Mr Sánchez, does not deserve a president like you, but you will have an opposition as you deserve, firm and inflexible in the face of the outrage that you intend to vote here. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.- Some Members: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u43	Thank you, Mr. Casado. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u44	Well, there's one thing we agree on, Mr. Married, and it's that lessons about corruption to the PP, none. [[Risa.-Applause.-Mr Casado Blanco: Zero.-Various Members: ERE, ERE!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Can we continue the parliamentary session and leave the people's square? [[Laughter]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] I beg your silence and respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u46	Well, I still see the same thing, Mr. Married. You still do not recognize your electoral defeat; you remain locked in that delusional vision of reality that describes the future of Spain as if it were the tunnel of fear. [[rumors]] [[Rumors]] Look, Mr. Casado - because today it seems to me that the mayor of Madrid and some more of the People's Party in the Plaza de Colón are walking - it is only a few days before the eleven months since you went to the Plaza de Colón, in the company of the former leader of Citizens and also of the far right. [[Rumors]] There you read a manifesto in which, after uttering your usual rhetoric - you can already imagine - and talking about treason, humiliation and all these things to which we have been accustomed since you are in opposition, you were demanding elections, Mr. Married. You said, "Elections now." Mr. Abascal said it, you said it, and the ex-citizens said it, Mr. Rivera. That day you gave a turn to Spanish politics and the life of your own party, you have to recognize it; that 10 February you had 137 seats and Citizens had 32 seats. The far right had zero deputies, it was then an exotic plant - let's call it that - that had begun to flourish in Andalusia. And during these eleven months you have celebrated thanks to the ultra-right, pampered the ultra-right and ruled with your support, followed the line of opposition that marks the ultra-right - I do not know, Mr Casado, that you left Mr Abascal to say -, imitated the language, the forms, the tone of the ultra-right. They have drawn a health cord to the Socialist Party and have embraced the far right. The result, eleven months later, is in sight: you have held not an election, as you then claimed, but five elections, and two general elections, and you have lost them all, and the left has won the elections. And you have lost one out of every three Members you had and Citizens have lost two out of every three Members. And Mr. Rivera isn't even here among us, because the results took him ahead. Remember what Mr. Rivera was saying: who does not know how to agree and dialogue to leave. Well, following your lead, Mr. Rivera ended up leaving. [[Applauds]] And honestly, I say it with all due respect, I would not want you, Mr. Married, to run the same fate as Mr. Rivera. In fact, I didn't want Mr. Rivera to have the ending he had, and so I told him several times, the few times he let me talk to him on the phone. I do not want the centre right to disappear in Spain, ladies and gentlemen. [[Several Members: No]] No, believe me, I don't want the centre right to disappear in Spain, because there are many Spaniards who feel centered, conservatives, and who have the right to be represented. I wonder whether many of them, listening to you, Mr Casado, here in the rostrum, in the solemn inauguration session of the Presidency of the Government, have felt represented with the forms, tone and content of your speech. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]] Mr. Married, believe me, I don't want - there will be people who tell you otherwise - to continue to grow the far right at your expense. [[Risa.-Various Members: No, no.-A Member: Very well]] I don't want it. I do not want it, because I do not want coexistence to deteriorate further and further and extremism and fanaticism to encamp in its broadest. [[Protests]] But for that, ladies and gentlemen, so that that doesn't happen - and I'm telling you and I'm telling Mrs. Arrimadas - the center has to behave as center and the right has to behave as right. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]] To that end, ladies and gentlemen, you must start by turning to your followers - and I am not referring to those on the bench, with all due respect to the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group - to your voters, and tell them the truth. [[Rumors]] And telling them the truth means, ladies and gentlemen, that ETA disappeared long ago, that it was defeated by democracy, that we are not facing an apocalypse, that we are not on the eve of the end of Spain or the end of the world. [[Several Members: No, no, no]] The only thing that has happened is that there have been two general elections and three different electoral processes, that is, five in total and the left has won the elections, the Socialist Party and the left of the Government. [[protests]] [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]] To tell them the truth is to say that a progressive coalition has been formed with another force on its left, as happens in other parts of Europe and that it has negotiated with other political formations, such as the Basque Nationalist Party and other parties of a regional, national nature and court, and that some of them, by the way, supported the governments of the People's Party, and that it has negotiated the abstention with independence forces - of course they have - because that is the configuration that the Spaniards wanted for their Parliament. I insist, this composition has been voted by the Spaniards, and their seats are as legitimate as the seats of the Republican Left, the Socialist Party, the United Podemos and the rest. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]] Ladies and gentlemen, that the votes of this House are all legitimate and that there is a crisis in Catalonia and that in Spain there is - if you have not noticed it, Mr Casado - a serious territorial dispute. If you have only spoken of it; you have not spoken of anything else. [[Rumors]] A litigation that we have certainly inherited from its brilliant management. You were given two illegal referendums, a unilateral declaration of independence and there were fugitives from justice. So, for your sake and the good of Spain, Mr. Casado, leave the trumpets of the apocalypse to the far right because coexistence is resentful, and because with that climate that you are insuffering only deteriorates coexistence. [[rumors]] Believe me, Mr. Married, I say this with all due respect: with the tone, attitude, forms and content that you are proffering from this rostrum, the only thing you are doing is to benefit the far right of this country. [[The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado: There, there.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common and from the members of the government in office, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Candidate. Mr Casado Blanco has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u48	Mr Sánchez, you do not respect the press and do not answer your questions and neither do we. We have already had several hours of debate and you have not answered absolutely anything we have raised about what you are going to implement from the pact we have known with Esquerra. By the way, a few minutes ago, the Republican Left of Catalonia has announced that it agrees with Mr. Torra's suggestion. So, what are you going to do with an autonomous president in open disobedience? You're not going to do anything at all? No, because it's up to him. I'll tell you something else - I suppose Mrs. Arrimada will say later - talking about Catalonia and reminding Rivera, I hope you were half as patriotic as Mr. Albert Rivera. [[Applauds]] It doesn't even reach the sole of the shoe. A respect. [[The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado: Now!]] But you don't respect anything. Mr. Iglesias now laughs, but remember how he treated him at the July investiture, remember how he treated Felipe González, Mr. Rubalcaba, Susana Díaz, to whom he owes everything; remember how he treated Mariano Rajoy after a couple of weeks of having agreed to an act as important as intervening in Catalonia with the Constitution, and remember how he treated Citizens and how he treats us. Mr. Sánchez is like a rider going on a horse straight to a cliff, and what he says is, get on the horse. No, man, no, Mr. Sánchez, but not for us, but for the horse, which is Spain. We'll be downstairs making a containment dam so he doesn't go to the cliff and with a loop we'll take down his government. [[Rumors.-Protests]] Yes, with democratic force of course, and I have already told you: in Parliament and in the Central Electoral Board, of course. The rule of law, Mr Sánchez, is not a trick of the far right; it is a veritable aberration what you have just said. What do you mean, legal tricks? [[Applauds]] Territorial litigation, political conflict, legal scam, but who do you think you are? You are here, in the Chamber representing the national sovereignty of an old European nation, with five centuries of history. Do you think you are up to it to say that the rule of law, the legal system, the Spanish Constitution are a legal device? But do you see yourself as morally and politically entitled to denouncing our democratic history, the memory of our grandparents simply to be a few weeks, a few months or a few more years in the Moncloa and with your private plane, Mr. Sánchez? [[The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado: But what does she say!Is that what you're talking about?]] [[Rumors.-Protests]] I honestly think this is very serious. If I were a socialist, I would be frankly ashamed today. [[Protests.- Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u50	And I'll tell you one last thing. In my first speech as president of the public People's Party, where I presented the founding of the party, many journalists were surprised to devote practically the integrity of the speech to demanding historical socialism, democratic socialism, and transition. [[Rumors]] Just as it surprised many people that in the last election campaign, when I valued Franco's exhumation, I said that it was an amendment to the whole legacy of that socialism that for fourteen years saw no imperative and urgent need to close the democratic cycle the exhumation of the dictator. [[Rumors]] Therefore, since you do not respect us or your partners, at least respect yourself. I told you a long time ago that you're trying to ride a tiger, but that tiger is not going to become a vegetarian and that he's going to devour you, and we're not going to get into your cage, Mr. Sanchez. At least have the prudence or education or the manner of coming to speak to the opposition, if you ask for abstention as you asked in July, in other ways. There was no doubt: we could not embark on that drift in which you are, but it has certainly become even clearer today. Spain is much more than the clumsy representation of national politics to which you have reduced that bench. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u51	Thank you, Mr. Casado. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u52	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen. Look, Mr. Married, you asked me who I am. Only from the far right questions the leader of a bench with 120 seats in a parliamentary regime who is. [[Applauds]] Mr Casado, I repeat to you that neither will Spain be broken nor the Constitution be broken. What we are doing is starting to break the blockade on the inauguration of the government presidency, after two general elections and five electoral processes which you have lost and which the Socialist Party has won. [[Rumors]] I'll tell you something else too, Mr. Casado. What has broken - and precisely you are paying for that break-up and that break-up - is the center-right space in this country. Previously there was only one political party, yours. Today there are three political parties. One is disappearing, another will see what happens to him, and you, with your speech, with your forms and with your attitude, what you are doing is legitimizing the discourse of the far right. Yeah, yeah. Mr. Married, I'll tell you one thing. No voter, or I will say it in a less serious way, the majority of voters in this country - and I am convinced that many voters in the People's Party - have been recognized in the speech, in the tone, in the forms and in the content that you have put forward. [[Strong protests.-Applause.]] I'm convinced, Mr. Married, I'm convinced. That is why I, as I did in the first of the interventions, am not going to fall into insult or slander or defamation. [[Several Members: No!-Protests]] No, I'm not. What I am going to say to you, Mr Casado, is that I am holding your hand to forge those great consensus and agreements that the country needs. [[Various Members: Now!-Strong protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u54	And if you want, Mr Casado, this legislature can also build those great consensuses that Spain needs and demands. [[Several Members: Very well, President!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal groups of the United Nations, Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u55	For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Quim Torra must be arrested. We face a debate of investiture in absolutely exceptional circumstances with the president of the Generality of a region and with a Generality in total and absolute rebellion. Quim Torra has just been convicted and disqualified by the courts for disobedience, for committing the crime of disobedience; by the way, following a lawsuit that VOX initiated in the courts, and I take this opportunity to thank the thousands of Spaniards who paid the bail that the courts then demanded. [[Applauds]] The Central Electoral Board has decided, following this conviction, to dismiss the President of the Generality and the reply of the President of the Generality has been that of a rebel and that of a seditious one. He has decided to postpone the flag of Spain from the palace of the Generality, has unlawfully convened a plenary and has said that he does not give up, because only the Parliament of Catalonia removes him, in a very clear declaration of rebellion and disobedience again. Mr Quim Torra must be arrested, but in Spain there is no law for the needs of Mr Sánchez's investiture. Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago in this very rostrum we were addressing Mr Sánchez's patrons: the Lords of Podemos, the Basque Nationalist Party, the Republican Left and the group of freedmen and laguntzailes of Bildu. We told them this: we will never support a government that puts at risk the national unity, the constitutional order, the freedoms of the Spaniards and the economic prosperity of our homeland. No one was surprised, because that was the same thing we had been saying all over Spain before the April elections. Therefore, we were only fulfilling the mandate given to us by the voters. That same promise we have repeated during these months in the electoral campaign of November throughout Spain, and we will therefore vote no to this clandestine investiture, this Christmas betrayal, this ambush of the Constitution that is being perpetrated today in the General Courts. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Plural Junts per Catalunya Group leave the Chamber]] [[Applauds]] And again our refusal will not surprise any Spanish and will not surprise any of the Members of this House, because we are simply doing what we promised, even though some voices also told us to have a gesture so that Mr Sánchez did not have to depend on the coupts. But if I now came up to this rostrum and said the opposite of what I said in the elections in a clear and consistent way, what would the Spaniards say about me? Well, they'd say that I'm a fraud, that I'm a liar, that I'm a scammer, that I'm an unscrupulous character, an unworthy person to represent voters, unworthy to represent their compatriots. Finally, a person without scruples and without honor, which is a word that has certainly spoken a lot throughout this morning. Well, what did Mr Sánchez repeat, and should we remember again to record in the Journal of Sessions during these years, during these months, and during these election dates? Today, by the way, he told us that lying is not a new phenomenon. We know that. He told us and promised us all the Spaniards, especially those who voted for him, that he would not agree with the populists, with the communists, because that leads to poverty, to the rations and Venezuela of Chávez; literally, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Sánchez said that he would not have communist ministers in the government, because then he could not sleep, like most Spaniards; he told us that that took his dream away and led us to a new election. Mr. Sánchez said that he would ban illegal referendums in the Criminal Code and that he would never deal with separatists. Mr Sánchez, again a candidate for the Presidency of the Government today, said in the temple of national sovereignty, right here, in this rostrum, the following: I am going to say this here for the record, I am not going to allow the governability of Spain to depend on independence parties like ERC. And today it depends precisely on your abstention. It is on the record, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Sánchez's acts record the permanent betrayal. [[Applauds]] So in good logic we already know what Mr Sánchez is for many Spaniards, some of whom had voted for him. Mr Sánchez is a fraud, he is a liar, he is a fraudster, he is an unscrupulous character who on the horse of media support and submitting to democratic institutions is capable of anything so as to continue living in the palace of the Moncloa. [[Applauds]] He is a villain of comics, he is a tyrant flags, that the same is wrapped in the national flag, that in the stellate, that in the European, that in the Cuban; an unworthy politician who has committed the greatest electoral fraud of Spanish democracy by pacting the day after the elections with which he had said as active and passive during the campaign that he was not going to agree, the day after exactly. [[Applauds]] And the truth is, some people don't miss us anymore. In Mr Sánchez everything is a fraud, from his doctoral thesis turned into a secret state, to the speech he has interpreted today, which he has interpreted today - and I want to say it with those words - which is a whole scam on voters, especially the honourable socialist voters, and a betrayal on the whole of the Spaniards. But it doesn't matter, because communist and separatist lords, their chieftain no longer takes away his dream so as to continue sleeping in the palace of the Moncloa. By the way, Mr Sánchez has said that we don't like a hair, and it's true, he likes it enough on his own. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] And he also said that VOX, what he calls the far right, is an exotic plant that began to flourish in Andalusia, and flourished quickly for the needs of Andalusian society to send the socialists to the opposition, after forty years doing the impossible, what everyone had thought would not happen and what the socialists had also given as impossible. [[Applauds]] And by the way, if we could do that, much more easily we will be able to throw Mr Sánchez out, because in fact three hundred thousand of the socialists who voted for him in April have decided to bet on VOX in these November elections. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] In short, nothing Mr Sánchez says in this rostrum or anywhere deserves the slightest credibility or respect, so it makes no sense to talk about what he said this morning in the House. Here we have heard a charlatan whose words have the same value as those of a professional timador, an actor with purple tie that the same could have come here with the yellow tie on the flap. The word given is fulfilled. That is something that some of us teach our children, something that Mr Sánchez does not practice and will never be able to transmit. That is why I think I am doing well to address from this rostrum the true leaders of this government: the Communist lords of Podemos and the separatists and coups of all conditions. You already know perfectly well that Mr. Sanchez is going to betray you. That is so obvious that they are asking you to comply in all haste with the agreements you have reached, infamous agreements that will cause damage, in some cases irreversible. You, Mr Pablo Iglesias, have asked him, first of all, a few armchairs in the Council of Ministers from where to handle budgets with which to feed that communist Leviathan who needs the subsidy, public money and brutal taxes to develop. That is why the first thing they will do is to raise taxes on the Spaniards, regardless of the misery and unemployment they are going to produce. In fact, you need misery to get into power, as has happened in Venezuela. [[Applauds]] And with these millions looted to Spain at dawn they will water every association, every NGO, every media and every company controlled by their comrades, gasoline that we will pay all Spaniards to feed the liberticide machine that is already glimpsed in the program that they have agreed, despite the euphemisms and that neolingua in which you speak and in which some we will never speak. I'm just going to give you a few examples. You seek to liquidated the freedom of education by preventing parents from exercising the constitutional right to choose the education of their children. They will probably end up supporting content for children - by the way, contrary to what Mr Sánchez said this morning - who until recently would have been considered child corruption, as has already happened in some autonomous community. You also intend to liquidate religious freedom by incorporating that concept of secularism of the State absolutely outside the Constitution, which states that Spain is an aconfessional, but not a secular State. You even intend to restrict freedom of expression. They are already announcing - and Mr Sánchez has done this morning - that they are going to create guides and courses that will, in fact, serve to censor one content or another on the networks and promote those that suit them. That is, more millions, more money, more offices for political commissioners. I understand that this network concerns you, because you already control a large part of the media, among other things thanks to Mr Rajoy, as Mr Casado well knows. And now they intend to silence the critical voices in the networks and in the streets, and I see a good retired man who yesterday dared to stand in front of the Socialist Party headquarters to say alive Spain and happy Christmas, and who was dragged in bad shape by the police that Mr Marlaska sent. In a Spain in which roads can be cut, in which containers can be burned and in which the President of the Generality is in absolute rebellion, a good retired man is dragged because he dares to stand in front of the seat of the Socialist Party. This is the Bolivarian Spain that some want to take us to. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] But in this Bolivarian program they still go further and are willing to trample even the right to work. Yes, the right to work, because you propose in your agreement to repeal article 315.3 of the Criminal Code, which I will read here: 'Whoever, acting in group or individually, but according to others, coerce other persons to start or continue a strike, shall be punished by imprisonment of one year and nine months up to three years'. That is, under his Government, his pickets, his squabbles, that is, his militiamen will have total impunity to coerce entrepreneurs and workers. If not, please explain why you want to repeal this article of the Criminal Code. That coercion, ladies and gentlemen, which will be able to exercise thousands of freedmen, how far will it go? Will it also end with the freedom of chair, the freedom of expression in universities, as you tried with Mrs. Rosa Díez, whom you did not allow to speak? Of course, the communist and Bolivarian partners also impose a government program that deepens the division of the Spanish in all aspects, either by their sex, by their vision of history, by their religion, by their language or by the territory in which we live. Finally, you have failed to propose directly the repeal of article 14 of the Constitution; that is in fact what you intend, and to a large extent you have already done so in some respects. This suicidal strategy of division and confrontation, of course, bets to continue with the desecrations of tombs, to impose a Manichean and official history that condemns to half Spain, that gags the historians and their freedom of chair, that reopens the wounds that the Spanish people had already healed and that so many good socialists had applauded. By the way, it is good that you choose October as the day of remembrance for the victims of past hatreds, so you, the socialists, can ask forgiveness for the crimes of the PSOE in 1934, when you gave a coup d'état against the Republic, or the crimes of October 1936 in Aravaca, where the socialist and communist militias began the murder of thousands of Spaniards, many of them children - although you laugh at the moment - who would then continue in Paracuellos. [[Applauds]] I have no doubt that you will do a great deal of damage; you will do a great deal of damage but you will fail, and except for a few thousand fanatics and nostalgics and tens of thousands who live from the story of the historical memory, the majority of the Spanish people will end up rejecting their cultivation of the old hatreds, of the hatreds of another millennium. But it still proposes more areas of division, for example, in what you call gender. They have already made laws such as the failure to fight violence against women, which end the equality of all Spaniards before the law. - And not only do I say it; don Alfonso Guerra, of his party, who recently warned that that law that you defend and that, by the way, you have supported all the groups in this House less VOX, is an openly unconstitutional law and that it was only approved by the Constitutional Court because of the pressures it received from Zapatero. And the submission of the courts will be discussed later, which is an issue of particular interest to Mrs Lastra and Mr Garzón. This insanity with no feet and no head needs a lot of millions. It is the gender ideology and you also want to extend it to the fiscal field. They tell us about gender taxation in their agreement, and that's going to be fun because what you call gender is a personal perception that the state has to recognize according to its own laws and has nothing to do with birth sex. If you, for example, want to tax women because you are, tell us how many Spaniards are not going to feel about making the income statement. [[Applauds]] And it is that in you, all that is not violent or illegal is, simply, absurd. They will divide the Spanish with regard to climate change. They are already doing so as an excuse to blame our camp, our industry and our agriculture, to put in place a national hydrological plan that will bring water to all Spaniards, to punish the humblest people who can no longer enter the cities with their cars and have no money to buy another, to criminalize our ways of life and to bring thousands of Spanish car workers, absolutely indispensable industry in our country, to unemployment. They have seen these days how car sales have fallen in Spain. Of course, the minister warms her mouth against the diesel and that has direct consequences for our economy and jobs. Of course, you promote division between territories. According to the community in which each Spaniard resides, he will have some rights or others; and that is nothing new, because that unjust division already exists in Spain, but you propose to deepen it to the extent that he who resides in an autonomous community - that is the key to the issue and what we are discussing here -, one that you consider a nation, will be able to decide on the whole of Spain, and the one who resides in Teruel will not be able to decide it. Here we link with another of the letters to the Magi who have written the other patrons of Mr Sánchez: the separatists, the heads of the Basque Nationalist Party to their own in this already traditional and miserable game of cutting off every weakness of Spain, either by collecting the nuts of terrorism or the nuts of coup in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] That is to say, the usual thing here has not changed anything; they, in order to weaken Spain, do what is necessary: of the left, the right, the republicans, the racist communists, the supremacists, whatever it is, as Don Aitor Luis Esteban well knows, a scholar of the history of his party and who so much likes to disguise himself as gudari and recreate battalions - eye, ladies and gentlemen!, that this is not a literary license; enter into Google -. Well, these gentlemen of the PNV first ask that Mr Sánchez comply with the agreements that they signed in his day with Mr Rajoy - by the way, I don't know if Mr Casado opposes this part of the government program - and, secondly, they speak on behalf of the shipwrecks - where the PNV is non-existent - with that classic prepotence of Basque separatism and ask to throw the Civil Guard of the Foral Community. - Another contempt for the best men and women in Spain, those who care and protect us, those who have cared for and protected so many socialist councillors in the Basque Country and in Navarre and for those for whom we will always demand respect and equal pay but really, not expressed in a speech from someone who never fulfills his word. [[Prolonged applause]] And finally, they call for equality in the distribution of the coup booty, because, of course - you are worth it - they do not want to be less than Catalan separatism. They are first-class citizens, and those of Palencia, those of Murcia, or those of the Canary Islands, or those of Teruel are subjects who have to accept what the supremacists of different status negotiate. With these requests from the PNV to Bildu there was little left to ask, so they have complied with the approach of a serial killer in the last few days and with the guarantee that they will continue to honor their criminals with impunity. For everything else, they seem happy; there is nothing but to see them; employee Sánchez will comply with the agreements with ETA on release and bleaching, as Mr Rajoy and Mr Rodríguez Zapatero did before. In justice, Mr Sánchez, you should give them a ministry that could well remove Mr Iglesias, who praised them so much in that tavern, because they are the ones who have worked most for the formation of this government and, in fact, have been doing so by Mr Eguiguren, Mr Zapatero and Mr Rubalcaba, just before the fateful March 11 in Spain. Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya has been the most demanding and most pleased boss. From the prison, condemned for sedition, the leaders of Esquerra have imposed the consolidation of the coup and the liquidation of national sovereignty. Mr Rufián has asked Sánchez to call the coup d'état political conflict - he has already succeeded - and to overcome the judicialization of the coup. Let's see, gentlemen of Esquerra, what you call judicialization is nothing more than the law acting against the criminals in your parties. At least speak clearly and say that what you want is impunity for breaking the law and destroying the constitutional order in Spain. [[Applauds]] With a president, like the one they intend to elect today in this House, Spain will be what the separatists of all corners agree and vote, and the rest of the Spaniards will have to accept it and pay the accounts of the various nationalist obsessions, including the residents of Teruel, many of whom will see how their vote - the one you will give today, Mr Guitarte - will serve to make them third-party citizens. Let me speak with regret about the sad role that Teruel's representative intends to play today.There is in this farce that we are living. [[Rumors]] And I say with pity because many Spaniards saw with sympathy the election of Mr. Guitarte as representative of the forgotten of the state of autonomy, of the victims of a system that came to reward the traitors and punish those who were loyal to Spain. I say this to you frankly, Mr Guitarte: no crumbs, but neither do any beggars or feasts, who offer you justification for a betrayal of Spain, because Spain also exists, Mr Guitarte. [[Applauds]] Perhaps the majority of Teruel Existe's voters legitimately believed that by being represented the name of his province in Congress they would obtain privileges that have obtained others in a bad way by blackmailing governments, but now they will see how they become a sad carpet of those same privileged ones. I hope that you will reflect, Mr Guitarte, I believe that you are still in time - and if not that your fellow citizens ask you to account for it, that I have no doubt that you will - in the same way that the Socialist Members of Extremadura, Andalusia, Castile are in time to avoid this government, in short, from the rest of Spain. Otherwise, they will also have to explain to their voters why they support a government that restricts freedoms and rights, endangers economic prosperity, negotiates with coups and turns the Spaniards of their provinces into pariahs who have to accept what the separatists decide. [[Applauds]] And you won't recognize it for party discipline, but there are many of you who are thinking about it. This project of the Bolivarian Government, socialist, communist, separatist and so on, clearly believed in its radicalism - listening to the words of Mr Sánchez this morning - how does it intend to impose this crazy agenda, which is a blow to the constitutional regime, the attack on the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards and the same national sovereignty? We have already seen it clearly, even in this rostrum we have seen it: subjecting and trampling democratic institutions. We have already seen this during the current phase of government, not only because of the ridiculous crown displants, which are sometimes almost childish and ridiculous. Yesterday we saw the pressure of the Supreme Court by Mr Garzón - who appears as a minister - and Mrs Lastra - the spokesman of the Socialist Party - who quickly came out to help Junqueras and Torra, responding obediently to those who told them to press against the Supreme Court. We have also seen with shame how the State Advocate in the middle of the process changed its own view, thus becoming the Junqueras Advocate. And thanks to that pirouette we have seen how the Supreme Court surrendered, denying the obvious crime of rebellion that all had sustained, which had been sustained by the investigating judge, the prosecutor's office, the popular prosecution, the state's lawyer until Mr. Sánchez settled in the palace of La Moncloa, and which we understood in the king's words when he said that he was violating the constitutional order in Catalonia. We have also seen the Centre for Sociological Research become another electoral agency of the Socialist Party, led by an individual who has dedicated himself to insulting millions of Spaniards. And already in the middle of negotiations, this time to please its partners, we've seen high-profile police officers, who make courtesy visits to drug terrorists allied with Podemos and to those who, according to the Bolivian government, wanted to free from the Embassy of Mexico. Be absolutely certain that we will discover what some public servants were doing there, fulfilling the orders you had given them; we will discover it, with complete certainty. [[Applauds]] But perhaps the most scandalous thing was to see the Socialist Party, - I insist, the Socialist Party - not a government - that would be wrong, but the Socialist Party, negotiating with the ERC coupsmen the last writing of the State's Advocate. And finally, Madam President, we have seen how this House itself submitted to obtain the minutes of elected Members of Parliament who, instead of swearing in the Constitution, had expressly conjured against it. You can be sure that VOX will pursue in the courts all these abuses against the democratic institutions of the Spanish nation, which are not of any party because they are indeed of all. That is why we cannot consider legitimate a government with such a clear totalitarian vocation that it will be invested with the votes of Members who really are not. This devaluation of our institutions, in addition to an anti-democratic path, is the way for other institutions and governments to trample on us, for example, in Europe where other governments - in theory allies - have questioned our democracy, humiliated and questioned our courts and allowed the fugitives of Spanish justice to be in Brussels today laughing at the rule of law, living as a king or, rather, living as a Euro MP. [[Applauds]] There has not been or will be a single voice in this government that defends our sovereignty and democracy in Europe or anywhere. That is why, for example, our Moroccan neighbours spend the money Mr Sánchez gives them to control the borders in buying tanks and combat helicopters while claiming the waters of the Canary Islands. And it's logical because when a nation doesn't respect itself, they all try to take advantage of it, as we see in this very House. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this fraudulent and treacherous project which you want to shape as a government, there is an atoning and concerned Spain, a overcrowded Spain which sees how the institutions - government, courts and parliaments - which were to represent them have become dens of traitors, cowards and liars. But Spain in the face of this project which did not let Mr Sánchez sleep and which now does not let the Spaniards sleep, will always find a containment dam, the containment dam of VOX, of its fifty-two deputies and of its more than 3.5 million voters. That is why we will do, as I warned you last July, not a loyal opposition, which does not deserve this government, but a loyal opposition to the Spanish people and therefore a total and frontal opposition to this anti-Spanish and anti-constitutional project that some want to launch. [[Applauds]] We will brake with all the legal, judicial and civic tools your liberated plan and we will do it in this House, we will do it in the courts and we will do it in the streets, as the thousands of Spaniards who are already doing at the door of Congress today are worried in a spontaneous demonstration called by a citizen, and we will do it on 12 January at twelve in the municipalities of the towns and cities of all Spain. [[laughs]] It is of no use to them, by the way, that they strive to silence us or hide us as they have done in this Chamber by distributing their seats in an unheard of and ridiculous way in any democracy. It is true that in order to spread through the Chamber they have had to count on the consent, the support - and that they have taken advantage of it - of the People's Party and the Citizens' Party, because in order to try to silence us the Socialists, the People's Party and the Citizens' Party, it seems that they do agree. [[Applauds]] But no matter, ladies and gentlemen, against your grotesque personal ambition, gentlemen of the PSOE, of Podemos, of Esquerra Republicana, of PNV and of Bildu, VOX will work for a united Spain, in which the constitutional order prevails in all territories and for a government that attends to the real problems of the Spaniards, a government that lowers all taxes that cannot be abolished and cuts political spending, because that is the only way to strengthen the economy and to obtain decent wages without having to charge the bill that with all difficulties are creating employment; a government that protects our industry and our field, now threatened by the competition of foreign products produced with slave labour; a government with courage to defend our borders and to expel all illegals; a government that respects the freedom and equality of all before the law, that repeals the laws that divide us and our field, now threatened by the competition of foreign products produced with slave labour; a government with courage to defend our borders and to expel all illegal countries; a government that respects the freedom of Spain and the neighbourhoods, that the Spanish government is never going out of prison, the Spanish, the government, the governments, the governments of the governments of Spain, the rest of Spain. I'm done. Gentlemen of the PSOE, it has cost you a motion of censure, two elections, millions of euros and trillions of lies to settle in the Palace of Moncloa. The Spaniards are going to pay their bill very dearly, but I assure you that the receipt of historic shame will be paid by you, it will go once again in charge of the Socialist Party, and you will not succeed because Spain is better and much stronger than all of you and all the representatives who lie to the Spaniards. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, national sovereignty resides in this House and nowhere else, in the seat of any party and in any other Parliament, and this is not a vague concept of political theory, it is the possibility that the Spaniards have to choose our future. Those among you who want to take away that right and that possibility, those who betray the sovereignty of the Spanish people, those who are willing to cut it will have to answer to the courts and the Spanish people. I can promise you, and I promise you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u57	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, although it may seem like a novelty of the year 2020, Mr Abascal, it is not the first time in the history of democracy in Spain that someone is coming up to this rostrum on behalf of the far right - it has already happened before with Blas Piñar, do you remember? - but it is the first time that the right are pending the word of the far right. [[protests]] It is the first time that you have a broad echo, that you are granted the rights with your covenants and your complacency; and it is the first time that you have influenced the national debate, not for yourselves or for what you say, but for what you repeat from the People's Party and from Citizens, so much so that I have sometimes listened to you, Mr.Abascal, and even seemed more moderate to me in the tone than Mr.Married, but use the same language full of exuberance, threats, insults, and the same tone of horror and terror. [[applause]] They speak as if - you have also said it many times - they are the spokesmen of common sense, but everything they defend is at the opposite end of the common sense of the majority of Spaniards. [[Rumors]] Mr Abascal, ladies and gentlemen of the ultra-right group, is it common sense to call it dictatorship to advance those who defend equality between men and women? Is it common sense to waste resources on the houses that house women who need to leave their homes so that their husbands do not kill them? Is it common sense to let people drown in the Mediterranean? Is it common sense, ladies and gentlemen, to allow people to continue to be marginalized by their sexual orientation or to qualify themselves, as you call them, as sick people? [[Rumors and Protests]] [[Protests.-Applause.]] [[rumors and protests]] [[A Member of the European Parliament: Lie]] You quote national heroes as Don Pelayo, as the Cid Campeador or even as Blas de Lezo to show a supposed strength that is not really such. Nothing further from reality, Mr. Abascal. You are strong with the weak and weak and submissive with the powerful. [[Applauds]] They are strong and even cruel - when you listen to them, you freeze your blood - with the victims of gender-based violence, Mr Abascal: gender-based violence, not domestic violence. That's a long time ago, Mr.Abascal, from a black and white Spain that we left behind forty years ago. [[applause]] You are strong and cruel to the victims of gender-based violence, to the underprivileged, to the people who are marginalized by their sexual identity or to the immigrants who flee from horror, and yet are submissive to the powerful. They have no problem in calling for the privatization of health care, as they have been heard, education or pensions, so that the privileged are even more so, nor in lowering taxes to those they most have or in showing their full harmony with authoritarian leaders, even if they go against the interests of our country. It is difficult for you to convince with truths, Mr Abascal, and that is why you often resort to false truths, that is, falsehoods, to fuel a climate of social alarm and hatred. I'll explain to you a few of those falsehoods, Mr. Abascal. You say: government policy generates a so-called effect. False. Here are the data: irregular immigration has been reduced by 50,5% over the past year, updated data to 15 December, and by the way we will continue to increase - that is our commitment to official development assistance. [[Applauds]] You say, Mr Abascal, that immigrants commit more crimes than Spaniards, and especially more aggression against women and homosexuals. In addition - I quote textually - you say that the government hides data on the crime of foreigners. This is completely false, Mr. Abascal. In 2018 - see, Mr.Abascal, these are the data - 76.3% of those convicted of a crime were Spanish. [[Protests]] In addition, convicted foreigners account for only 1.43% of the total number of immigrants living in our country. In 2018, 73.9% of those convicted of crimes against sexual identity were Spanish, as were 79.7% of those arrested or investigated for hate crimes. Moreover, I say one thing to you, Mr Abascal, be better informed because the National Institute of Statistics disaggregates data of origin by continents. You say that gender-based violence is not a specific problem to be dealt with outside of violence - which you say - intra-family or domestic. This is false, Mr. Abascal. Sexual Offences: 11,692 in 2017, 13,811 in 2018. There are 1033 women killed by gender-based violence from 2003 until today, Mr Abascal. [[Protests]] The number... - You look me in the face, Mr. Abascal, when I talk about this. The number of women victims of gender-based violence increased in the Ministry of Justice central registry by 7.9% in 2018 to 31,286 victims. In 2018, Mr Abascal, 62.2% of the victims of domestic violence were women. False complaints, you say, about gender-based violence affect millions of Spaniards; more than 80%, you say, of complaints are filed. False. Convictions of false allegations in the field of macho violence amount - listen well, Mr Abascal - to 0.01 % of the total complaints submitted. [[Applauds]] You say the autonomous state is a waste. False. With regard to autonomous management, for example, let us put one case, that of education: it has increased school success rates, it has increased the number of students with higher education in secondary school by 23 percentage points, from 11 % in 1992 to 34 % at present. Do you know when the education skills were transferred, Mr. Abascal? Precisely in the 1990s. Mr. Abascal, you lie more than you talk, and look how much you talk! [[protests.-Laughter]] [[Applauds]] What I ask you, Mr Abascal, is whether when you lie for Spain too. I know for a fact - a little bit of what I'm seeing in your group, in your bench - that I'm not going to convince you or your sidekicks. The truth is, I don't aspire to it, Mr. Abascal, I have to admit it to you. [[Rumors]] But since the rights with which they agree and manifest themselves, for example, today remain silent and do not dare to answer them, I pretend at least that their falsehoods in this rostrum do not remain unanswered. You, Mr Abascal, do not wage a battle against the Socialist Party, I did not make a mistake. You do not wage a battle against the Socialist Party, either against the left or against nationalists or independenceists; you wage a battle against time, Mr Abascal, against time. [[Several Members: Oh!]] Because the ideas that they defend: machismo, homophobia, racism, xenophobia, the penalization of abortion, the clerical state that they defend, the centralist state - all these ideas - are the ideas - look at what I say, Mr Abascal - of the party to which you previously represented and defended, which was the People's Party. The People's Party defended all these issues many years ago, at the beginning of democracy. The People's Party, Mr Abascal, also opposed, for example, divorce; it also opposed abortion. It is true that now Mr Casado has again alarmed us and alarmed us all, because he says that if there is a parliamentary majority he will also review abortion in our country, or at least that is what you said, Mr Abascal, when he had no beard. [[Laughter]] The People's Party was opposed to this; it opposed divorce, opposed abortion, opposed same-sex marriage, and was also opposed to the state of autonomy. In fact, they voted, as I told you before, in that sense in Title VIII of the Constitution; they did not support it. But here you have the enthusiasm, Mr Abascal, with which many significant members of the People's Parliamentary Group have later made use of these laws. And I say this to you, Mr.Abascal, not because the People's Party and Citizens are the right coward, as you call them with contempt, but because Spanish society, fortunately, has made those laws its own and has been compensating those rancid values, those prejudices that you defend. The defence of involution, Mr Abascal, ladies and gentlemen of the ultra-right group, and the backsliding in history may seem heroic to you. You appeal a lot to the Cid Campeador, the other day we saw Mr. Ortega Smith for Granada, but it's actually just wild and irresponsible. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: What does it have to do with it!]] And I'm going to tell you why you're reckless and irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen of the ultra-right group. [[Mr. Sánchez del Real: Alphabet!-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Keep quiet, please. [[Rumors and Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, respect the speaker, please, the candidate for the Presidency of the Government of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u60	As I was telling you, ladies and gentlemen, the defense of involution and the backsliding in history may seem historic and heroic to you, but in reality it is only unthinkable and irresponsible and I will tell you why. Because going back to a centralist state to return to a society where the Penal Code wrote it a religious confession, to go back to a situation in which women lowered their heads and obeyed, to turn their backs on Europe and return to isolation, to eradicate sensitivity to the environment and climate change, to burden themselves with public pensions and the welfare state as you defend, to venerate Franco and the dictatorship, to achieve all that, Mr.Abascal, you would have to pass over Spanish society, you would have to burden yourself with democracy. [[rumors]] And you know what I'm saying, Mr. Abascal? That's not gonna happen. [[Prolonged applause]] In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the real danger of Mr Abascal and the far right is that his ideas will come to influence and exercise power through the People's Party, as is already being done precisely in important municipalities such as that of the capital of Spain and in autonomous governments. Therefore, our obligation, ladies and gentlemen - and we will always do this - is to do what the PP does not dare to do: to defeat its falsehoods, to warn about the fanaticism that generates hatred, to defend coexistence, tolerance, diversity, equality, freedom. Mr. Abascal, look at me, defend democracy. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Congress, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the members of the Government in office, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u61	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u62	I am very pleased with Mr Sánchez's answer because I believe we are moving forward. He told me to look him in the eye, and I remember, when we first appeared in this House, that Mr Sánchez was neither addressing us nor answering nor looking at us, as he was not doing in that television debate in which he seemed to want to run. Today we have been moving forward: with twenty-four seats we are not united, now he insists that he look into his eyes. As I call elections again, he's going to want to make a deal with us, because he doesn't care. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Mr Sánchez has come here to release a lot of crap and lies about VOX and I am not going to try to answer all of them because I think we will have plenty of time to be able to confront data, lies and fake news propagating the Socialist Party and especially Pedro Sánchez. But he has not explained here what he should have explained, and other parliamentary spokesmen have asked him to do so and I have asked him to do so. You haven't explained your lie, you haven't explained why you tricked the Spaniards. I am absolutely against it and I cannot be further away from Mr. Iglesias' positions, but I think he wants power for something, but for something bad and that seems dangerous to me. I am even further away from the positions of the separatists, who want the power to destroy Spain, and I believe that those political organizations should be illegalized, but I believe that they sincerely want it. Mr. Sanchez, what does he want the power for? Mr Sánchez has deceived the Spaniards by saying that he was not going to compromise with political forces and has done exactly the opposite. Get up here and say exactly why you changed your position the day after the election. You have made no account here, no explanation, no justification for why you have deceived all the Spaniards and especially the socialist voters. [[Applauds]] We know why you did it, because you don't have any scruples. I told her in the previous parliamentary debate, in the one where I wasn't looking at myself, that you gave as much laugh as I know, Joanna as your sister, and I remember how Mrs Calvo and you laughed. They've given us reason. They presented themselves to the elections with the slogan 'Now Spain' and what we find in this debate in Investigating Courts is now separatism, now the Government of Spain depends on the separatists; that is, Mr Sánchez believes absolutely nothing. [[Applauds]] Today he has come here to tell us literally that he wants a decentralized and federal Spain in a federal and united Europe, that is, the liquidation of the Spanish Constitution and sovereignty, because sovereignty cannot be broken up into federations in Spain - except by changing the Constitution, if you succeed - or by handing over our sovereignty to supranational institutions. In the end, what you want to do - and I am surprised by Mr Sánchez - is to replace our national sovereignty, this Congress and this government, to hand over power to the oligarchs in Brussels, to those so powerful that you submit to and to the local chiefs. [[Applauds]] I am surprised at someone who is so eager for power and at the end I come to the conclusion that you are only interested in the palace and the Falcon, because you do not want the power for anything else, you want to travel and you see in passing the need to go up here to the rostrum, to go to parliamentary debates and insult right and wrong. You are the one who has insulted, we have not insulted you at all, we have described you, we have described your lie, your trap to the Spaniards. [[rumors]] You should come up here to explain why you have deceived them, because what we are living in this session is extremely serious, it is a betrayal of sovereignty. You are shielded in an euphemistic concept of bilaterality when what you are proposing are two legitimacys and two sovereigntys, and we will never accept that a region can decide what belongs to all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] If the Socialist Party wants to negotiate with Esquerra, that it negotiates with the goods of the Socialist Party and with the houses of the people, but not with what belongs to all the Spaniards without distinction, which is our sovereignty, and, moreover, it negotiates with the dignity of Spain and of the institutions. It is a shame to have to listen here to Members who really are not and who have conjured themselves against the Constitution but who are Members because you need it. And then you have to come up here to insult us, because you are absolutely unable to go up to this rostrum and tell us why you lied to the Spaniards. He says that VOX is the far right, he talks about the lies of VOX when you spread all kinds of lies; he says that we are outside the Constitution, when we defend the constitutional order; he dared to say that we deny the Holocaust, when we say that we must combat all totalitarianism, the Nazi and the communist, with whom you want to agree, which does not deny neither the gulags nor the Czechs. [[Applauds]] He says you have to apply a health cord, not to people - because you love us very much, you are kind, you notice when you tighten your jaw - but you have to fight ideas and apply a health cord to extremist ideas. [[laughs]] Is communism and Marxism extremist, the one you renounced in 1979? Is separatism and the breakup of Spain extremist? Is it extremist to rely on the abstention of the votes of ETA's heirs? Is that extremist or not? Or is it that everything is worth to you, Mr. Sanchez? [[Applauds]] Then you came here with that garbage that we want people to drown in the sea and that women to be raped and abused, without recognizing that that law that you call against gender violence has failed and failed to eradicate violence against women or other violence in the family sphere and without recognizing that precisely the mafias are very pending from the NGOs that you fund and help from the public power, calling people to come, promising them a false paradise that we cannot give them and then we have to put them in juvenile centers where they make living together in neighbourhoods impossible. [[Applauds]] You are responsible for the tragedy in the Mediterranean and you, Mr Sánchez, are responsible for sexual violence against many women. [[Protests]] No, no, they're gonna have to listen to me. It is not common sense for you, who refuse permanent imprisonment, to accept that recidivist rapists convicted over and over again enter one door into prison and a few years later go out the other and rape women again. [[Applauds]] You have a responsibility, and we clearly say that permanent imprisonment, neither verifiable nor anything; forever in prison those who attack women. So tell us we defend women worse than you. You have in your family women, like the ones we have others; admit at least that we defend them equally and leave that dash of fat brush when then you do not accept it to be used with you. [[Applauds]] He also assumed before the long history of the Socialist Party. I didn't even presume Indalecio Prieto when I was saying to Juan Simeón Vidarte, deputy secretary of the PSOE: 'I don't want to talk, because I don't know if I'll be able to hold back and not let go of any walk to Knight, Baraibar and company. They have been as guilty as Falange for having created the environment that led to the uprising.' You have also said here some lies about us and I will take the opportunity to remind you again - because you do not know her - of the long history of the Socialist Party. In 1910, the death threats to Maura in Congress by Mr. Pablo Iglesias. Is that what you brag about and feel proud of? Do you assume that the PSOE called a strike in 1917 that ended with dozens of deaths? Do you assume that in 1931 the PSOE voted against the women's vote and Mrs. Victoria Kent said: 'It is necessary for women who feel the democratic, liberal and republican fervor to ask that the women's vote be postponed'? Do you assume that another socialist, Margarita Nelken, also held that 'the Spanish woman at that time lacked sufficient social and political preparation to vote responsibly, because she was very influenced by the Church' and by the confessors? Do you assume the 1934 coup d'état? Do you assume that Indalecio Prieto showed a gun in this Congress? Do you assume of Largo Caballero and of his declared intention to go to civil war when he said: 'I want to tell the right-wings that if we succeed we will collaborate with our allies; but if the right-wings succeed... we will have to go to declared civil war. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Let them not say that we say things by saying them, that we do it'? That's what Largo Knight said. Didn't you boast of the long history of the Socialist Party? Why do you mind if we remind her? Or do they boast of the fraud in the elections won by the Popular Front? Or do they boast of the murder of Largo Caballero at the hands of Indalecio Prieto's escort? Or do they presume - by the way, since they said that they were going to recover some goods - of sending the gold reserves of the Bank of Spain to Moscow never recovered? Or do they boast of when the USSR - how do they laugh!, but will remain in the Journal of Sessions - asked the Republican government for restraint? [[Applauds]] [[Laughter]] Stalin came to ask for moderation from Mr. Largo Caballero and asked him to respect private property a little more. Or do they boast of the creation of the LAGs, or of corruption in the time of Felipe González that gives them so much laughter, or that of the EREs? [[Applauds]] You continue to boast of what you want, although you can hardly boast of anything; and, of course, you will not be able to boast of what you are perpetrating today in Congress, of that attack on sovereignty that will leave you with a more ugly historical portrait than you already have. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u63	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u64	Mr. Abascal, you keep saying that we pour out all kinds of falsehoods, that you are telling the truth. I will continue to point out some things to you, because you said some time ago that legislation, for example, discriminates against the Spaniards in access to housing aid, and this is false, because they are required - you said - to root. In the Community of Madrid simply - by quoting a case - it is necessary to have Spanish nationality or legal residence. 65,17 % of the provisional admissions to the aid complained of in your well-known speech, Mr Abascal, were Spanish. You say, Mr Abascal, that foreigners come to operate and the invoice is not sent to the country of origin. Also, with jumping the fence - you have come to say something very similar today here from the rostrum - you are handed the universal card. False; to receive the universal health card it is necessary to meet certain requirements, such as being a worker affiliated with Social Security, for example, Your Honor, and migrants who enter Spain jumping the Melilla fence do not meet them. Foreigners in need of health care in Spain must submit a document accrediting the right to export the assistance. In 2017, for example, invoices amounting to EUR 670 million were sent. If the person does not meet the requirements, the attention received is paid directly to the person. You say that we do not need immigrants for the maintenance of the pension system. It will be linked to what you say that the public pension system must be privatized. We even heard an economic spokesman from the ultra-right group say that in Spain the real problem was that the rich had it with the tax system. But, finally, says Mr Abascal and the far right that we do not need immigrants to support our public pension system. The National Institute of Statistics, AIReF, United Nations, Eurostat, estimate that in order not to raise the current ratio of pensioners to workers it would be necessary to have at least 34 million by 2050. The Law against Gender Violence you say discriminates against men, and this is false. Women who commit crimes do not go unpunished because domestic violence is covered by article 173 of the Criminal Code, among other rules. In any case, Mr Abascal, since 2008 the number of men killed at the hands of their partners or ex-partners has never exceeded ten victims, and gender-based violence in our country has taken more women's lives than ETA terrorism. [[Applauds]] You say, Mr Abascal, that you are not a homophobic party, that it is a lie that you are a homophobic party, that just as you defend the safety of women, you are supposedly also defending the diversity of our society, but Mrs Monastery, your leader in the Madrid Community, signed a petition to allow what they call sexual orientation reorientation therapies. You have not been happy with this, Mr Abascal, and you have ensured that LGTBI collectives are generating more and more LGBTBI children. And the Murcia City Council, where you govern with the People's Party, has promoted a subsidy to an association that corrects sexual deviation. Since the entry into force of the Law against Gender Violence, Mr Abascal, and you have come to say the opposite - I remind you of the figures more than anything so that it is serious and rigorous at least in them, do not use truths, falsehoods, Mr Abascal - it has been reduced from seventy-two in 2004 registered, to fifty in 2018, the last full year. Look, now you've built up in Uninational Spain, uniformed Spain, but you also have a past, Mr.Abascal. You have been a member of the People's Party in the Basque Country. Look what Mr. Abascal was saying when he was in the People's Party in the Basque Country. I quote: The Basques - and I did not say the Vascongadas, as the Generality now seems to say - we can feel fortunate - then said Mr Abascal, a newcomer to politics, welcome Mr Abascal - to live in a democratic society where the freedoms of expression, the freedoms of political participation and the linguistic rights of people are respected, and we have - said Mr Abascal - the chance to enjoy a very broad political autonomy and to bring our essence, our smell, not only to the garden of Spain, but to the garden of the world. [[laughs]] [[Laughs.-A lady MP: Come on!-Applause]] That was said by Mr. Abascal of the State of Autonomy. In any case, Mr Abascal, you have just highlighted the enormous ideological differences that separate us. For you Spain begins and ends in the square of Columbus and for us it has a diversity that enriches it. You think of a Spain anchored in the past and turned to the past and we think of a Spain determined to respond to the challenges of the future, from climate change, which you do not recognize, to the technological revolution. You have a vision of women as a submissive, docile being, and we see them as equal beings in rights and freedoms. [[rumors]] You always find an apology for the flocks and for those who fear the unassisted children and we believe that every human life deserves protection. You reduce Spain to its symbols but you disregard the value of public pensions, of public services, you are ultimately unaware of the air we breathe or of the water that surrounds our coasts. You, Mr Abascal, talk a lot about making Spain big and, listening to you and your bench, what is obvious is that Spain is big, very big, Mr Abascal. [[Applauds]] But being large those differences, there is still a greater one. We never descend or descend to personal attack, personal threat or incitement to personal hatred, as you do. Look, in the last few days there are leaders of your party who are entering a drift that is dangerous for coexistence. They have begun, for example, by calling for measures to ignore the election result; they have continued with expressions of hatred and are already inciting violence. [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah. Talk, for example, to the spokesman you have at the City Hall of Palma de Mallorca or to the councillor you have, for example, at the City Hall of Cáceres. [[Denials by Mr Abascal Conde.- Several ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group make negative signs]] I shall take this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to explain why we propose that, as in other European countries, a health cord should be raised to the right which you represent and what a health cord means to us. For us, a health cord, Mr Abascal, ladies and gentlemen of the far right, does not rise up against people but in the face of ideas. For us, a health cord is intended to prevent the extremist and fanatical ideas that you represent from influencing society through majorities of government. But a health cord is not breaking the rules of education and coexistence, so we invite you to hold a meeting and you refused to come to it. Unfortunately, in Spain we live in a unique situation. Conservatives and liberals embraced the far right and raised a health cordon to social democracy, one of the forces that has brought democracy to Spain and has been at the centre of all the great democracies of the post-war era. I am very proud, Mr Abascal, of being the secretary general of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applauds]] And in that we differ too. And I'll tell you more. Some of your representatives, of those who are most distinguished by their radicality and their trickulence, played high responsibilities in positions of political trust in the socialist administration - I am referring to the spokesman of the City Council of Palma de Mallorca -, from which comes a very clear conclusion, Mr Abascal, which I want you to listen: the superiority of democracy over authoritarianism, because that would have been impossible to reverse. Democracy enables all capacities to be harnessed for the benefit of the common good and thus enriches coexistence. Mr Abascal, ladies and gentlemen of the ultra-right group, Spanish democracy is so great, Spanish democracy is so great that even you belong to it too. [[Applause from the Socialist Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal, on the other hand, from the Socialist Group and from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats)]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u65	Mr. Abascal Count.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u66	Thank you, Mr Sánchez, for welcoming us into the temple of sovereignty and for allowing us to enter this House. Thank you for your magnanimity. [[Laughter]] Mr. Sanchez, you have practiced here the strategy of squid, which releases the ink and flees through the sea. [[Laughter]] All in order not to answer the only question we asked him: Why did he deceive the Spaniards by saying that he was not going to agree with Podemos and the separatists and why did he do it just the day after the election? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Abascal. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Abascal. Ladies and gentlemen of the ultra-right group, Mr Abascal, I am going to tell you something very clearly, if I have answered that question, even without imagining what I was going to do! I have said that the composition of the parliamentary groups of this Congress of Deputies has not been elected by the Socialist Party, you have not elected it, no one has elected it; the Spanish have elected it by their vote; the Spanish have elected it by their vote! And as legitimate are your seats as the seats of the rest of the parliamentary formations, Mr Abascal. [[Applauds]] Now, I understand that for the top leader of the far right this is impossible to understand. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u69	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. We suspend the session until sixteen o'clock. It was three and thirty minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the investiture debate. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Turrion has the floor in the first place. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u71	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, thank you, Mr Sánchez, for your presentation at the beginning of this sitting. You have not only talked about the programme that unites us to face the next four years, you have also defined - in my opinion, correctly - the country challenges that the first coalition government has in our recent democratic history. I think you have rightly pointed out that the next stage should be a stage of social progress and democratic progress. I would also like to thank my group for its support and perseverance. Actually, as you said, things don't come out first. [[Applauds]] I want to thank all the people who have worked to make this agreement possible and I want to point out at least four of their own names: Maria Jesús Montero and Pablo Echenique, for having made an agreement possible, and Felix Bolaños and Ione Belarra, for having worked in the back room, in what is often not seen but which is so important. The result of your work and that of the people who have accompanied you has deluded millions of compatriots. I hope we are worthy of the text of that agreement. [[Applauds]] To conclude with the list of thanks, I would like to thank the social movements and civil society. This agreement is far more worthy of them and of them than of any political party. The social movements that have defended public services and social justice are the true architects of this government agreement. Unfortunately, we are accustomed to the great economic and financial powers which, through their media arms - and not only - put pressure on the government. The next Government will need criticism and pressure from social movements to do things right. [[Applauds]] We abandon a decade that, in many respects, has been a lost decade, a decade of corruption, a decade of social cuts and also of cuts in civil rights and freedoms; a decade in which the clumsy management of the right has turned territorial political conflict into one of the fundamental keys that we will have to assume in our country in the coming years. But it has also been a decade of hope, it has been the decade of the 15-M movement, the decade of tides that defended public services, the decade of pensioners claiming what is theirs and, above all, the decade of the feminist movement, which has made our homeland a reference of the social advances that women are leading. [[Applauds]] The social movements told us yes can!, and the next government has an obligation to convert that yes can! in concrete policies that serve to improve people's lives. A programme has been presented here that combines the experience of the Socialist Party with the courage and freshness of the Union Podemos. It is a programme, on the one hand, of reconstruction; of reconstruction of rights and freedoms taken from citizens in recent times, but it is also a programme that wants to guarantee and build new rights for citizens. We hope that Spain will become a benchmark of social justice for Europe and for the world, because the best vaccine against the greatest threat to Europe, which is the extreme right, is social justice. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the right, of the right and of the right, I have listened very carefully to your speeches. I'd like to rescue something positive from your intervention, Mr. Married, and I think I'm going to get it. You quoted Benito Pérez Galdós. Not only is he one of the most important writers of the last two hundred years, he was also a Republican who ended up being socialist. If you'll allow me a piece of advice: more Pérez Galdós and less Pérez Reverte, Mr. Married. [[Applauds]] Mr. Abascal - although you are not here in Congress at the moment - I have heard your speech and I think there have been too many insults. I think there are many voters in your party who have no problem voting on a side, but prefer a polite side rather than a rude side. [[Applauds]] You have spoken, Mr Abascal, of the Leviathan who wants to create the left so that some may live on the subsidies. Having been sucking off the bottle of Esperanza Aguirre for so long, I think you should be a little more cautious. [[Applauds]] Some conclusions are highlighted in your speeches, ladies and gentlemen of the ultra-right and ultra-right. The first is the feeling that for you democracy and institutions have an instrumental character. You recognize it and it suits you if you win the elections and if you have the power, but when there is a parliamentary majority that will result in a different government, you speak of apocalypse, you speak of a nightmare and you say that you are going to use all the means, even the occupation of the squares - it would be ironic to see some of you camp in the Sun Gate - to try to end the next government. All I want to ask you is whether when you say that you are going to use all the means to make opposition you refer to legal means, because that is what we and we expect. [[Applauds]] It is clear from your statements, ladies and gentlemen, that you continue to oppose all social progress. On October 31, 1978, the Constitution that you so claim had only six votes against in the Courts: one, very likely, of the polymilis, and another five of the People's Alliance. You opposed divorce at the time, and it is a curious thing, because many of you, ladies and gentlemen, are happily divorced people. [[Laughter]] Can you imagine that you could not have divorced if in this country you had done what you said you had to do? You, ladies and gentlemen, were opposed to lesbians and gays getting married. Can you imagine, Mr. Maroto, not having been able to marry anyone who wanted to marry because in this country you would have done what your party said? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Today you are even opposed to the evidence of climate change, but I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the ultra-right and ultra-right, that social progress will continue to take place in this country despite you. [[Applauds]] I have the feeling that you are constantly repeating the word Spain basically because you do not understand Spain. Spain is here, Spain is very diverse, the deputies of Bildu, Esquerra Republicana, BNG and any political formation represent the citizens of this country with the same dignity as you. You do not understand the diversity of our homeland and therefore you do not accept that a parliamentary majority representing citizens will build a new government. You despise that parliamentary majority and, as you despise Parliament, your problem is that you despise Spain, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] You have recovered the worst discourse of our country's political traditions, the political discourse of anti-Spain. The political discourse of anti-Spain, to call its political rivals anti-Spanish, is the political discourse of the dictatorship, the political discourse that killed thousands of compatriots, the political discourse that sent a division to fight alongside Hitler - yes, Mr Abascal - in the Second World War. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Come on, go on, go on!]] [[Applauds]] The political discourse that destroyed our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, your party was founded by six ministers of the dictatorship, by six ministers of a bloody dictatorship to which we must thank, because our democracy was also built with some ministers of the dictatorship who overnight changed from jacket to democrat. [[rumors]] [[Rumors]] We must thank these people, but accept a word of advice, Mr Casado, do not go back to the totalitarian ideology that saw them born because, if they do, Spanish democracy will place them in their place. [[Applauds]] You have spoken of tyranny, of liars, of ambushes, and you have spoken once again of betrayal of Spain. Let's talk about what it means to betray Spain. Betrayal of Spain means attacking workers' rights; betrayal of Spain is selling public housing to vulture funds; betrayal of Spain is selling and privatizing public assets; betrayal of Spain is privatizing public services; betrayal of Spain is stealing at full hands and illegally financing itself in electoral campaigns. [[applause]] [[Applause. - Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!]] The task of the next government, ladies and gentlemen, is basically to repair the betrayals of Spain and the Constitution that you have perpetrated, because you speak of the Spanish Constitution but forget the articles that protect the right to decent housing, the right to adequate remuneration at work, the right to a redistributive tax system, and you disregard the most patriotic article of the Spanish Constitution, 128, which says that all the wealth of the country will be subordinated to the general interest. From this goes the new legislature, to repair their betrayals of the homeland. [[Applauds]] A few days ago I saw an image that moved me. It was an act of Mrs Merkel's party; they handed her a German flag, and you know what Mrs Merkel did? Then immediately return that flag, because no German party has the right to represent Germany. I hope you will learn something about the State responsibility of your German colleagues. No political party in this House can claim the right to represent Spain, because all the Members who are here are representatives of this country with the same dignity as any of you. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you knew the meaning of State responsibility and patriotic sense, no matter how much you admired the Evangelical Democrats, who after a military pronouncement had taken power in Bolivia, no matter how much you admired them, you would have defended our police and our diplomatic corps. [[Applauds]] The problem of you, ladies and gentlemen, of the ultra-right and ultra-right, is that before you Spaniards are reactionary. [[Applauds]] I would like to address the independent political forces represented in this Parliament. I would love to convince you through dialogue so that you would stop being independent; I would love to convince you of the possibilities for us to build a different country together, for us to push republicanism together in this country, for us to build a country in which, indeed, today, different national sentiments and different nations coexist. But I am not naive, I know that most of you are going to remain independent, and that is perfectly legitimate in democracy, but I believe that there are democratic values and social values that unite us to deal democratically with conflicts and also to improve people's lives, speak the language they speak and identify with the symbols they identify with. And I think the people who voted for us and who voted for you want us to, at least in those things, understand each other. [[Applauds]] I want to have a word with the Catalan independenceists who are in prison and exile. [[Rumors]] I have been able to meet some of them and I have great political differences, but I have been able to see the unquestionable depth of their democratic convictions. I know that some of them, from the prison, have worked to defend the agreement and dialogue and from this rostrum I humbly want to thank them. [[Applauds]] Europe has made clear the impossibility of a judicial solution to the political conflict in Catalonia. Let us do politics, ladies and gentlemen; let us do politics. [[Rumors]] To end, the next government will have many enemies; it will have economic and financial powers with its media arms prepared to fight by attacking the next government; there may also be street numbers and there may also be some toggles that put its reactionary ideology ahead of the law. [[Several Members: Hala!]] The next Government must defend democracy with the law, with the law, with the law and with the law. [[Applauds]] Let me finish with a reflection that Antonio Machado put in the mouth of Juan de Mairena: 'The homeland is in Spain a simple popular feeling of which the lords often boast. In the toughest trenches, the lords invoke it and sell it; the people buy it with their blood, and do not even lie to it.' Pedro, you will be at the head of a historical progressive coalition. [[rumors]] It is an honor for us to walk with you. Yes, you can! Go ahead, President. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can-In Comú Podem-Galicia in common, stood up.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.- Mr Iglesias Turrion shakes the hand of Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón.- Various ladies and gentlemen: Oh!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u72	Thank you, Mr. Churches. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u73	President, ladies and gentlemen, much has been said about Zapatero's legislature today and when I heard them I remembered the three days before his victory. Then we saw the best and the worst of Spanish politics. On the one hand - today that so much has been said about lies - the lie deformed in electoral form and, on the other, the dignity of the victims and of the thousands of people who went out to the street to shout: Enough war, authoritarianism, lies! That was the beginning of the most progressive legislature since the recovery of democracy. There were failures such as that of the statute, of course, but there were also major milestones such as the withdrawal of troops from Iraq. And in one thing I agree with Mr Casado in his speech - perhaps the only one - when he said that there were similarities in the historical moment. It is true, when I heard you, it seemed to me to hear Mr Acebes and Mr Aznar and it is true that today there is also the same illusion and hope that there was then and we cannot disappoint it. Today, as yesterday, we have a political obligation to heal the territorial and social wounds that you have inherited from us and to go further than what was then, to go further than what has never been achieved, remembering that what has never happened does not age. Galeano said that time is short, the challenge burning and the challenge giant, and we have a challenge giant. The ability of us to come to terms with people with such diverse ideologies and political cultures will depend on the next decade. To do this it will be essential to have a political waist, to be attentive to nuances and to learn that to govern is to manage contradictions. It would be easier to remain in the opposition without tainting itself, at least for us, but the situation is exceptional and we must risk, risk not in any way, not unconsciously, but with a sense of responsibility and of the historical moment that has touched us, this very serious moment. We were born, in fact, risking a PAH activist who is now mayor and a university professor who will be vice president of the first coalition government from the Republic. Thank you very much, Paul, for believing in that possibility that has finally come true. [[Applauds]] As you said, Paul, we will have many enemies in front of us. It's true. Today we have heard, and will hear these days, how the ghost of communism, who come the seven plagues, Venezuela - we know - and which breaks Spain and the Constitution - they, who did not vote in their day -, 155... [[Rumors]] And Mr Casado still does not read the ruling of the Constitutional Court because it has been invented a 155 that the Constitutional has said is not possible in our order. No need to be afraid; we already live that, we live it in Barcelona. Then they told us that there was no alternative, that it would be chaos if we ruled, that sulfur would come out of the sewers. But we showed that it was possible, that it was possible to govern in another way, that it was possible to leave behind the cuts of the right and be leaders in social investment without generating debt, that it was possible to create the municipal dentist, the public electricity, the first of Spain, that it was possible to make more social housing than ever, that it was possible to triple the food grants and that it was possible to plant in front of banks and vulture funds. We proved that all that was possible. If we prove it there and in other municipalities, we can also prove it in the Government of Spain. That's our commitment. We came from that experience. It is true - Paul said - that we bring freshness, but we also endorse that experience. We came from there, but we also came from afar: we felt inherited from so many brave men and women, from as many fighters and fighters as the first woman minister who promoted the first law of abortion, as the Catalan Prime Minister of the Republican Navy who defended women's suffrage with Clara Campoamor. We are proud of Federica Montseny, we are proud of Lluís Companies, we are proud of Rafael Alberti and we are proud of all those men and women who risked their lives and in some cases lost it defending democracy, such as Ernest Lluch. [[Applauds]] Today we have talked about the victims of terrorism. We are proud that our candidate was her daughter Rosa, who today would have been ashamed to hear certain things about terrorism. Ernest Lluch brought public health and was vilely killed for defending dialogue. We owe it to all these people and also to all the people who came out with the vote between the teeth to stop the extreme right and the extreme right; we owe it also - we cannot fail - to the LGBTI movement, the feminist movement, the unions and the young people who went out on the street to defend the future of the planet; we owe it to all of them. Because what is at stake is not who will be the future president, it is not just that; what is at stake is coexistence among peoples, democracy, the rights conquered by all these people. And the extreme right is defeated and combated not with gesticulations, not summoning antifascism. To the far right it is earned by governing for the people and for the common good; it is earned in this way. The extreme right and the extreme right are won by working also for fraternity and solidarity among peoples, because when progressive forces and plurinational forces are understood, then Spain advances, both in democracy and in rights. It has always been so throughout history and it will also be so from today. That is why many thanks to the PSOE, to Esquerra Republicana, to Bildu, to BNG, to Compromís, to Mais País and to all those formations that have understood that it cannot be governed from behind to that plurinationality, to that diversity. That is what the right has never understood, neither in the Restoration, nor with Franco, nor during the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera, nor during the legislatures of Aznar or Rajoy; they have never understood that Spain is plurinational. There will be no future until we reach an agreement where we all feel included. Mr. Casado spoke of Galdós, quoted him, although it would be good for him to read it in addition to quoting him. I want to quote Albert Camus, a writer and philosopher who died 60 years ago. Camus said - and it is right to remember it today, precisely on its anniversary - that democracy, if it is consequent, cannot benefit from the advantages of revenge. And I say this because there is no future if we turn our backs on Europe. That's why Europe hurts, it bothers you. It bothers them that I remind them that their adversaries also have rights. You are only interested in Europe when it comes to the troika, but you are not interested in the Europe of human rights. When you accumulate social, economic or judicial power, we already know what's going on; yesterday we saw that you became the spokesman of the electoral board, because no one escapes that it is no coincidence that Mr. Married acted as spokesman. It is clear that the right hand will use his judicial arm to try to win in the courts what he has lost in the polls. When he wins the right, we know what happens, that things turn around. You paraphrased Vargas Llosa when she wondered what the fuck was going on in Peru. I don't know what happened in Peru, but I do know what happened in Catalonia and Spain. In Catalonia things broke precisely with the Rajoy legislature and when you organized small tables for all the peoples of Spain against the statue. That's where it all started. Since then, we have not had a statute voted for by Catalan citizens. There the territorial constitution was broken, not on October 1. We want a country where defenseless people are not beaten, just because they want to vote for the cry of A for them! We do not want a country where more trenches are built than bridges; we want a country where there are no winners or losers; we want a country that speaks to its peoples. That is why this country is building this historic bloc that is being formed, which wants to leave behind old Spain, carfood and hollow Cardinal Cañizares, who today said that we must pray for Spain...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u74	Mr. Asens, you'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u75	I'm finishing up, President. For that it will be essential that citizenship accompany us. Don't leave us alone; don't leave us alone when the right again shakes its flags to divide us; don't leave us alone when Endesa, the CEO or the vulture funds want to prevent us from regulating rental prices, when they want to prevent us from ending the labour reform of the People's Party or lowering the price of light. Do not leave us alone, mark the way, watch us closely, be demanding with us, because we, who come from social movements - some - know the importance of fighting the strong when we are weak and fighting ourselves when we are strong. We know the importance - I have just - of being brave to go as far as possible, but also of being brave to tell the truth to people when the correlation of forces imposes its limits on us. That's our commitment, telling people the truth and going as far as possible. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u76	Thank you, Mr. Asens. Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. This morning's debate has surprised me quite a lot, but there is one that has drawn my attention especially because it has seemed very significant to me and it is that the right-wings in their speeches have devoted a small, if not directly zero, interest to the programmatic measures that have been exposed at the first hour of the morning and that they are the ones that must convey any debate of investiture. [[Applauds]] In our country, as our colleague Pablo Iglesias said, ten years ago began an economic, social and post-political crisis of enormous gravity, which was managed with neoliberal policies that caused a series of cuts and privatizations in public services, wage cuts, labor reforms, laws and a reduction in freedom of expression, a series of regressions to all the effects that led to the increase in labour exploitation and inequality. Those who have suffered the most in these ten years have been the working families, the working class has been the one who has suffered the most during these ten years and today, after a few years of instability and political volatility, we bring to this House the opportunity to open a path that reverses all these policies that have harmed families and the working class over the last ten years. This is the focus of the attention, in my opinion, of this investiture, the proposals that we have put on the table: raising the minimum wage, repealing labour reform, ecological measures, feminist measures, affordable housing and the fight against ludopathy and gambling houses, a series of measures that the right-wing have not wanted to talk about, as if they believed that the daily lives of working families depend on eating flags and nationalism, and the reality is that they did not. [[Applauds]] It is more in line with the political and economic programmes defended this morning by Mr Pedro Sánchez. These same neoliberal policies implemented in the last ten years in our country have also been implemented in the rest of Europe and the consequences are there. The consequences are the increase of anger, frustration and indignation in popular sectors, which are opting to vote for xenophobic, racist and classist parties, some extreme right-wing leaders of surveys in France, Italy, Sweden and Finland, among others. It is becoming clear how neoliberal economic policy is also destroying representative democracies themselves, together with the pressure of those xenophobic and racist parties. I think that in that global reactionary wave is where we have to analyze the radicalization of the Spanish right. This radicalization of the Spanish right-wings of recent years is due to a sign and language of modern times, but very dangerous. It has to do with that competition that we have seen this morning among the different right-wings for seeing who makes the most of the spread and spread of hatred in the face of the different, for seeing who makes the most of the hyperbolic discourse, the hyperventilated discourse, for seeing who makes the most of the political conflict. Because something has become clear to me this morning: the Spanish political right lives on the conflict, feeds on the conflict and therefore wants to obstruct in all possible ways an alternative path that ends and resolves the conflict. [[Applauds]] The echoes of the Spanish notion of Menéndez Pelayo were sounded this morning in the interventions of the right, and it was easy to contemplate a thread that goes from Cánovas del Castillo to Mr Abascal and Mr Casado, passing through Primo de Rivera. It is a thread and a notion of Spain absolutely narrow, essentialist, traditionalist and that, by the way, carries what comrade Pablo Iglesias said, the notion - menendezpelayista, by the way - of Spain versus anti-Spain, only this time, gentlemen of the right, will have to reflect on why, according to their criteria, almost 60% of the voters of this country already belong to anti-Spain. A problem you have with that notion and a problem you have with the notion of the Spanish reality, which is much more diverse, it is plural and, by the way, it is plurinational, something that is much better reflected in the debates and in the spirit and letter of the 1978 Constitution. I am very happy and very pleased to belong to a party, in addition to the United Left, which is the Communist Party of Spain, without which neither Spanish democracy nor the 1978 Constitution would be understood. [[Applauds]] So, Mr. Married, I have to ask you if your anticommunist verb is compatible with that spirit that you claim to defend from the Transition. I don't think so, because you don't understand the story or either of them is a lie, and I don't think your anti-communism is a lie. [[Applauds]] I therefore believe that we must understand the reality that we are living through and bet on dialogue, negotiation and solutions. We must support this investiture. [[Rumors]] I say this in a very simple way: I think this is the last chance for things not to get worse in the economic and political spheres. Can you imagine those who have spoken this morning on the right governing this country? Can you imagine any resolution of the conflicts in our country in that way? I do not think that, because what they want is to stir up the conflict, they live from the conflict, they feed on the conflict, because that Spanish ultranationalism shares with some sectors of Catalan independence the notion that the President said very well this morning that the worse, the better. But, look!, reality and history often show that this type of crisis carries a great social pain that is often paid for by the social majority and that only a few small elites do in fact benefit. By the way, if the two blocks can end up saying the worse, the better, it's true that one of the two has to be failing. The truth - the story proves it - is that the worse, the worse. So let us bet on the dialogue, let us bet on the negotiation, let us bet on a way of solving the problems and let us bet on implementing that programme which we said this morning. The reactionary elements have opposed this investiture and that should not hinder this investiture, it should show the clear what it is necessary. Thank you very much, Socialist Party; thank you very much, We can; thank you very much, comrades and companions. Let us not fail to face the longings, hopes and challenges that we will face in the coming months and years. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand. Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u78	Thank you, Mr. Garzón. I give the floor to Mr Gómez-Kingdom Varela.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u79	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen; good afternoon, President. Thank you. I'll start at the end. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, we deserve - not us, my parliamentary group or the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but the whole democratic society in this country - more than their ex-abrupt, shouts, threats and insults continued. Get used to democracy because we have been in democracy for more than forty years now, gentlemen of the right. [[Applauds]] Mr. Casado, you were talking about a betrayal of Spain. Mrs. Arrimadas was talking about a nightmare of insomnia. What is a betrayal of Spain are the years and years of B boxes of the People's Party, the more than 800 accused and the more than 80 billion euros that cost us their corruption. [[Applauds]] Yes, I have to start with a call not only to the left-wing voters, but to all the Democrats. In the face of the exciting historical challenge but also in the face of the barbaric right-wing offensive, I appeal to calm and measure, but also to the firm civic mobilization to defend democracy and the legitimate government that will emerge in a few days from this investiture session. [[Applauds]] Secondly, from Galicia in common we said in campaign that our country, Galicia, had to be in the next government of the state and Galicia will be. Galicia is already present in the government program that we have signed with the rise of pensions and the interprofessional minimum wage, with the repeal of the labor reform, the Lomce or the Law gag and with the measure to end the pharmaceutical co-op and not to allow the closing of units of assistance to the childbirth, as is happening in Galicia, in Verín; but also when we talk about the program of return of emigrants, women and the rural environment with the commitment to activate the Law of shared ownership, of the fight against fires, defense and sanitation of our ria, and with the plan of industrial development and the new electro-intensive status, which has to be already the guarantee for the workers of Alcoa in Galicia, Alcoa in Asturias, of Ferroatlantica and of so many factories. [[Mrs Vázquez Blanco utters words that are not perceived.-Applause]] Finally, and I am finishing now, we are talking about a Government already committed to Galicia when we talk about the commitment we have made to the ratification of ILO Convention 188, which will improve the lives of more than 11,000 people in Galicia who go to sea every day. Finally, something very important. We have talked about it and discussed it many times in this House, because it is something fundamental: the commitment of democratic memory to return the Peace of Meirás to Galician citizens. [[Applauds]] I'm done. In Galicia in common we understand that this is the first step of a second that will come next autumn, because from there it will also change the Government of Galicia and will change our country. [[Mrs Vázquez Blanco utters words that are not perceived]] Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u80	Thank you, Mr. Gómez-Reino. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, we can-in common Podemos-Galicia, Paul, Alberto, Mr Gómez-Reino and also Jaume Asens for their words and also for the good wishes for this first progressive coalition in the history of our democracy to be born - hopefully - of this investiture process. [[Several Members: Ohhh!]] Mr. Iglesias has made a series of thanks that I am going to support; I do not want to repeat them, although it seems to me that, in fact, there have been many people in the back room who have done very well so that we can reach a good port. It is also true that during this last year 2019, on the occasions when we have faced electorally, after all, we all coincided, both the confluences as United Podemos and the Socialist Party, in a spirit and in an objective, that Spain had to move forward, that Spain had to stand on the wall in the face of the reactionary dynamics, of regression and of involution that, unfortunately, we are seeing in some autonomous communities and in some municipalities as a result of that understanding between the ultra-right and the ultra-right, in addition to the right. I keep that and say it more than anything because this morning I suffered a little bit from the consequences of your rhetoric. [[Applauds]] It is true that, as Mr Garzón rightly said, we have a country with a huge dose of hope after having recounted it among all, not only in the public document that we signed a few days ago, but also today. There is enormous hope and enormous illusion for the symbolic component, first of all, that for the first time in a long time, in decades, the lefts of Spain are understood and we can share the path not only from the point of view of the parliamentary groups but together in the Government; there is therefore a huge dose of hope, illusion, optimism about what other more reactionary sectors of Spanish society emit, and also responsibility. In this sense, I would like to thank Mr Iglesias and the whole of the United Nations We can and from his confluences the assumption of that responsibility, because by governing - as I said earlier, I think I remember that Mr Garzón or Mr Asens, in order to be more explicit - we really have to assume contradictions and those contradictions, logically, we have to share them, we have to assume them from a solidarity point of view. That is why I think it is important that what we have commented on and what I have commented on first in the first of the speeches this morning is that this progressive coalition will have as its fundamental values and objectives social justice, the welfare state, freedom and also territorial cohesion. I want to start with the latter, because all of us who are here and who represent the bench of the left, United Podemos, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and also nationalist, localist or even independenceist parties, logically we are aware that there is a problem of territorial cohesion in Catalonia that we have to address. It is true that it has cost us, that we start from quite important differences between, for example, the Republican Left and the Spanish Socialist Workers Party - I have to tell you and acknowledge, Mr. Iglesias, the generosity that you have had in leaving the Socialist Party the negotiation with the Republican Left in order to reach an agreement - but I do believe that it is good news that we can set up a bilateral commission between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia to begin to resolve this territorial dispute. It is, and on many occasions some political leaders from the right bank tell us that this is little less than unconstitutional. And look, before I was told by a fellow member of the socialist bench that even the Conference of Presidents has no constitutional anchor, it is not recognized as such in the Spanish Constitution and, instead, there have been not only socialist presidents of government but also presidents of the government of the People's Party who have developed it. We want, logically, to resolve the territorial dispute in Catalonia and we are going to put, as I said in my first speech, all the enormous dose of generosity, empathy, responsibility and also the vocation to return to politics what is a political conflict. And of course my commitment to the Republican Left, to Catalan independence, is that, to the extent of our possibilities and our responsibilities, we are going to return a political crisis to politics and we are going to leave the judicial track behind, which I believe will also be very important for the whole of Catalan society. On cooperation, I think we have had a good appetizer during these seventeen months that we have ruled in cooperation. We have had a good appetizer with the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage. There were many aggravations that told us little less that jobs were going to be destroyed, that it was going to affect especially the most vulnerable layers of the labour market, especially those with the worst training and young people, and instead we have seen job creation data robust enough to see that there has not actually been a substantial enough impact to make it happen. I therefore believe that what we share from that point of view and within the framework of the social dialogue is the spirit of complying with the European Social Charter of reaching 60% of the average wage at the end of the parliamentary term, is very good news for the workers of our country, especially in order to make what I said at the beginning of the intervention: not only is the solution to the social divide as a result of austerity policies and the economic crisis in place, but also the redistribution policies are aimed at improving the wages of workers. We have also had a good appetizer in the workplace on other issues that we leave at the end in the tinter. I believe that there is a huge consensus, which, by the way, surpasses the Socialist Party and the United We can and that it also interferes in the Basque Nationalist Party, in Catalan independenceist forces, such as the Republican Left, on what are the elements of the 2012 labor reform that we need to review, which we need to repeal. Therefore, I believe that there is a path that we have to go together. Finally, I believe that we have done very good things in the area of the labour market, although insufficient, because there are many others who are telling us about the social partners and, in particular, the unions we have to set up, and of course I think that will be the spirit of the progressive coalition. Some of the things we have reflected in the document, Mr. Iglesias, are also very important, and I thank you very much. Although we take it for granted, that in a document for a progressive coalition, with the criticisms that the right bank is pouring on us, let us say that fiscal responsibility will also be a guide in the action of the economic policy of the Government of Spain generates tranquility and certainty. Although it is obvious to us, because we actually carry it in our DNA, for some economic actors it is probably something that worries, especially for all the propaganda and all the intoxications that we are seeing over the last few weeks about what we are going to do in the field of economic policy. [[Applauds]] Nor do I want to extend much in the sectoral policies, cross-cutting policies that we are going to share, because, after all, when we talk about feminism we are talking about a cause shared by the Socialist Party with the United We can or the United We can with the Socialist Party; when we talk about ecology, they are actually policies in which we share a vision of society, and the challenges ahead are shared by the Socialist Party with the United We can and the United We can with the Socialist Party; when we also talk about the fight against inequality, the same happens; when we talk about diversity, the same thing. In short, I have to say, Mr Churches, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can, that it is true that we have had very strong dialectic confrontations in this House, but it is also true that it is well that ends well, and this ends with an understanding of the left, which is great news for many voters and progressive citizens. By the way, Mr Asens, you made a reference, which seems to me to be important, to the need to entangle our progressive coalition programme - both Mr Iglesias and Mr Garzón have done so, as well as you yourself, as a representative of the tides in common, and I too, in my intervention from the Socialist Party, with the demands of society, but also subject us to the control of the social sectors, which are ultimately those we serve from the left or from the left, both their political parties and ours. But good is what ends well. This is going to end in agreement between the left to form a progressive coalition government, and I have to tell you, Mr Iglesias, Mr Garzón, that I am frankly deluded. I hope that we will do well and that in four years we will look back and demonstrate to many of those who today say that it will not be possible that we are a left that could govern and could govern Spain. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Confederal Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, stood up.- Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon approaches the seat of Mr Iglesias Turrion and gives himself a hug]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u82	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Borràs Castanyer.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u83	President, ladies and gentlemen, the year begins and we are back in an investiture debate to which Pedro Sánchez has gone with another tone, with another hue, and I thank him for that. We have listened to him very carefully, especially when talking about the cardinal axes; he has talked about freedom, he has even talked about full freedom, but he has not remembered the fellow political prisoners. Yes, Paul Iglesias has, and I would like to thank him on behalf of our entire group. [[Applauds]] He also referred to freedom in order not to be subjected - I have pointed out - to the whim of anyone, because the independenceists are subject to the whim of Spanish justice. So I'd like to ask you a few questions. Are you aware, Mr Sánchez, that in the country that you aspire to preside over democracy you are run over by all the state apparatuses day after day? That the solution is not by boasting that he would be able to bring back President Puigdemont, but by accepting the colossal error that meant that he would cease? What about a shocking political myopia that the State Advocate - your Advocate, Mr Sánchez -, while you talk about de-judicializing the conflict, calls on Llarena to withdraw immunity from Carles Puigdemont and Toni Comín as soon as possible - are textual words? The Lawyer, who also boasted that she had achieved a hundred years in prison for civil leaders who have exercised fundamental rights and for honourable and peaceful politicians who have only fulfilled their electoral commitment. Who else should tell them they're wrong? The United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention has already done so; Amnesty International has done so; courts in Germany, Belgium and Scotland have done so; not even a judgement of the Court of Justice of the European Union seems to bother them excessively. The MEP Oriol Junqueras has been in an illegal prison for sixteen days, and the State's Advocate has taken eleven days to draw up a report in which he acknowledged, without finishing to acknowledge it, something as obvious as a European judgment must be complied with. The surprise of the Spanish State is that when one believes that he has already exceeded all the limits, one finds a resolution of an administrative body that seeks to determine whether the president of the Generalitat can continue to exercise his office or not because he has hung a banner. [[Applauds]] I know you're outraged by this decision, Mr. Sanchez. That is why yesterday afternoon he reacted to the moment, like all the democrats in Spain, and showed his firmest disagreement with such an unusual, ridiculous, shameful and unacceptable resolution. His tweets of indignation reached the peak when Mr Casado entered the final requiem to Montesquieu in Spain, announcing first of all the denial of the Euro MP's credentials to Oriol Junqueras. [[Applauds]] But he didn't do any of this; he didn't even mention it today in his speech; he just retweeted the great news of the agreement with the BNG that adds a vote in favor of his investiture. Are you sure this is something obviable? What do you think is worth yesterday's decision of the Central Electoral Board that Oriol Junqueras cannot take his credentials and exercise as a Euro MP? Can you tell us if the Central Electoral Board eventually issued a decree to cease the president of the Generalitat, would you sign it? It will also tell us that the Central Electoral Board does not depend on you, although we better not ask who depends on you, because neither the Supreme Court nor the Constitutional Court nor the Police that knocks down doors and targets children with machine guns to invent non-existent terrorist crimes such as the CDRs and those arrested on 23 September. [[rumors]] Surely, neither the 155 2.0, in the form of a digital decree, nor Borrell's scaffolds depend on you. Nothing depends on you as long as, on the basis of worsening Spanish democracy, it harms Catalonia and keeps the sacrosanct unity of the Spanish nation tied and well bound. Politically, Mr Sánchez, for having been in office it has worked selectively and almost always under this criterion. I will give you three simple examples, because I do not have enough time to list masked democratic abuses of politics. At the end of June, the Government warned that it would maintain the financial control of the Generalitat. President Tora would continue - I quote textually - to make unfortunate statements about his political intentions. You know what he said? We'll do it again. This reminded us of the Minister of Finance. I would like to know what article of the Statute or the Constitution upholds such an affirmation or power. Minister Borrell, in a second example, in addition to resorting to the new Catalan delegations, because he considered them to be clearly harmful, spied on the external action of the Government in Europe. He also lied with a non-existent report not to pay the debts to the Governments of Catalonia, Valencia and the Balearic Islands, and there was no report of the State's Advocate as stated, but mere verbal consultations. Pedro Sánchez, the one of the thousand faces, has presented himself today to us docile, conciliator and dialogian. But who are we today and really? Are you the Pedro Sánchez of 155, who counted on your invaluable collaboration? Mariano's, use me; a phrase in his book that will certainly not become part of the annals of literary history, but that will certainly make it part of the most regrettable historical memory of the violation of democracy in the contemporary era in Spain? Are we in front of the Pedro Sánchez who speaks of a problem of coexistence between Catalans or of which, in order to obtain a vote, he admits reluctantly that this is a political conflict? By the way, seeing you - those of one bench and another - discussing it seems to me that the problem of coexistence you have here in Spain, but good. [[Applauds.-Protests]] What is Pedro Sánchez, the one who fills his mouth with dialogue but then does not disconnect the phone or the one who grants meat of reasonable independence to then be able to agree with that other independence that today has called intransigent nationalism? No; the nationalists are you, even if you don't know. We are independenceists, and we are demanding independenceists, that's what we are. [[Applauds]] If you and your closest collaborators really believe that the solution for Catalonia goes through dialogue, we celebrate it. The first essential ingredient is the recognition and respect of the interlocutors, some interlocutors who - I am very sorry - do not choose them, they are chosen by the people of Catalonia with their vote; the same vote that, despite the Spanish Justice, has turned Carles Puigdemont, Toni Comín and Oriol Junqueras into Euro MPs; the vote that the Electoral Board despises sovereignly and very Spanishly. But today, what is your proposal for Catalonia, to go to that dialogue table to which the constitutional framework, which was not written in the agreement, has been added in voice today? What's that recipe? How do you want to resolve the conflict? Do you want to solve it or do you want to chronify it? There's been a lot of talk about Zapatero. In Catalonia we remember the'support' a lot. Now you may propose a 'I'll sit down and talk'. All right, welcome back to the dialogue that you yourself left a year ago, but do not expect that with such a minimal approach the Catalans will conceive you as a statesman, all the more so as a minor evil, but badly at the end of the day, for whom we wish to address in depth issues as inescapable as the end of repression and the cut-off of democratic freedoms and rights. What credibility can we give today to your sudden desire for dialogue and resolution of the conflict through political means, Mr Sánchez? The secretary of organization of his party has already hastened to throw water to the wine and to clarify, in relation to the referendum of self-determination of Catalonia, that - and I quote - we are ready to discuss any initiative, but, obviously, this does not mean admitting any initiative. That is to say, that we do not want to talk about the subject as long as we do not talk about it, it will not be that they confuse us with any of these consolidated democracies of the type of the United Kingdom or Canada, which they do not think of anything else but talking, agreeing and allowing people to vote, that is, to do politics. We have always been Catalan innovators and curious about this rebellion that is born and made from within a parliament and by popular mandate, because so much that some people like to talk about beatings, on February 23, 1981 Tejero tried to perpetrate one and on January 3, 2020 the Central Electoral Board wanted to perpetrate another. From the first, from the violent, there are physical traces in this Chamber; from the second, we will try to ensure that there are no traces left and, despite the violence involved, I am already telling you that, after this speech of denunciation and rejection of the violation of the sovereignty of the Catalans and of the contempt for their votes, we will return with all the comrades of Junts per Catalunya to Barcelona to come to our Parliament and give support to our President, because the matter is of extraordinary gravity. [[applause]] If after knowing that the Supreme Court is controlled by the back door; if after declaring publicly and without any kind of complex: 'The prosecution on whom depends...? That'; if after unjust prison sentences, exiles, mass accusations, fierce repression and constant repression we thought that we had already seen everything, yesterday, with the resolution of the Electoral Board, a new coup d'état was launched, a coup to the constitutionality that some defend so much, a coup d'état in every rule against the highest institution in Catalonia. An electoral body has been assigned functions that are not within its competence, interpreting the execution of a judgement that was not final. This is the second time an attempt has been made to remove a president of Catalonia from an office in Madrid, this time without even passing through the Senate, in a sort of 155 post-election. And in the face of this arbitrary decision, indefensible from a democratic point of view, we tell them that we will not give up; that in the same way as on 1 October we defend the ballot boxes in order to defend the democratic right to self-determination, we will also defend the institutions in Catalonia. And the worst of all is that there is no solution for Spain if it continues along the path of repression, nor is there any solution for Catalonia, but we will not fail in our efforts. Spain opts for repression, Catalonia opts for democracy. Look, they don't like the presidents we choose. They did not like President Mas, whom they disqualified and tried to ruin; they do not like President Puigdemont and was arbitrarily dismissed; the citizens reversed in the ballot box what 155 had imposed and ratified the Presidency that you had ceased, but he was prevented from promising the position. Jordi Sánchez still did not like him as president of the ANC and his rights were violated by forbidding him to go to his investiture. In the case of Jordi Turull he was imprisoned in three sessions; now it seems that it is the turn of President Torra and it is intended to disable him. Yesterday the democratic will of the Catalans was altered, but this attack - and I finish, President - does not cease to be an attack on the citizens who vote in order for their votes to be respected. Who can it be tomorrow? Bertolt Brecht has been summoned. There is a poem attributed to Brecht, but it is actually Martin Niemöller, who talks about that when the Nazis came to look for the communists, there was someone who kept silence, because he was not a communist; when he imprisoned the Social Democrats, he also kept silence, because he was not a Social Democrat; the same with the trade unionists, because he was not; and the same when they came to look for the Jews, because he was not a Jew. When they finally went to look for him, there was no one else who could protest. Remember the poem those who call themselves democrats, because the same to stop independence will destroy their democracy to such an extent that there is no one left to save it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. I now give the floor to Mrs Sabanes Nadal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u85	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the exaggeration, despite the overaction, despite the insults and despite the rift and even the journeys to the past, the reality is that what we are doing these days here is what our country has long deserved, which is to achieve a government of progress. From More Country-Equo we have always clearly defended a commitment to the unlocking of the situation that has affected our country for so long, we have defended dialogue in the territorial area and we have defended the urgency of a green, feminist and social justice agenda that the Spaniards so much need. This is really what we should be doing here today. We are going to put on our side and, of course, we are going to give the votes to this coalition government, which we believe is very important to our country. [[Applauds]] It has not been easy to get this far and the continuity of this path will not be easy, but we see a positive picture of the overall programme presented here today. The proposals that have been made by both the Socialist Party and the United States may lack some concrete results, but the reality is that it is a good start to redo a social contract that is essential to regain rights and capacity for our country. That's why we're going to support him. We are putting the Socialist Party and the United Nations at one and the same level. We are putting a single condition: that they be courageous; that they be courageous to push forward with this indispensable agenda for our country; that they never give in to the pressure of the reactionaries; that they be courageous and that they carry out an important project for our country. I would say to the right-wing gentlemen that it would be good for them to express the true sense of patriotism, which is nothing other than meeting democratic standards. We are talking about a legitimate Government, a legitimate majority and a legitimate coalition, do not forget. [[Applauds]] For us to be ambitious means that the ecological transition is a perfect opportunity to modernise our economy and set ourselves up with Europe. Mr Sánchez, I have missed the fact that you have not spoken about the Green Pact, in tune with Europe, in a more comprehensive way and understood it as a nuclear element of our country's policy, which must link the climate emergency, the fight against climate change, with training, with employment and with innovation. It has to link that holistic vision, change and ecological transition, because we are not just talking about the environment, but we are talking about very important changes. We're in an exceptional situation. For us, being More Country means thinking about the interests of people above the interests of political parties, and we hope that they will be able to think fundamentally, in the face of any discrepancy and difference, in the interests of the whole citizenry; it means fighting against macho violence, defending that in our country you love whom you love and who you are can do it without fear. We do not want to forget anything or anyone else, so that the transition is fair: neither the Sea Minor, in its most difficult moments, nor the emptied Spain, which suffers the effects of depopulation, nor the trains that do not reach Extremadura or other parts of our country, nor the industries that need a fair transition. We do not want to forget either the young people, who need an expectation, an opportunity; surely in this model change this coalition of government will be able to generate that expectation. We are beginning to see another possible policy, and it is up to us in this context to help. If you are brave, we, have no doubt, with full responsibility, will help to assume that in the twenty-first century the world is changing and that our country cannot miss this opportunity or this train. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as Neruda said, I could write the saddest verses this day, because today, ladies and gentlemen, the demolition of the state we know is opening. The candidate who comes to Congress to be invested president of all Spaniards has agreed precisely with those who do not want to be Spaniards; aspires to be president of Spain with the support of those who want to destroy Spain. We have been doing bad politics for a long time in this country; for years the parties have stopped worrying about and caring for the citizens, but there has never been a situation like the one we are living in today, an absurdity that drives the constitutional left out of ambition and allows the constitutional right out of electoral selfishness. Mr Sánchez, you wanted a total free government and didn't come out; now you're willing to pay the highest price anyone could ever imagine. You have agreed with those who want to end the democracy of 78 and the parliamentary monarchy. You kneel before secessionism. It has negotiated with the parties that unilaterally declared the Catalan Republic and is ready to open a bilateral dialogue between Spain and Catalonia, the greatest triumph for the secessionists and an offence for the rest of the autonomous communities. You are not making a mistake; you are willing to betray the entire Spanish society in exchange for a handful of votes. That's unfortunate. Mr Sánchez, I have defended the Canary Islands from this rostrum with all my strength, because I love my land and I love my people. You wanted the canaries' vote to make this mess up and you've had the shame of offering to enforce the law. They have had the harsh face to say that they will comply with the autonomy statute and the REF Act. Mr. Sanchez, our outlaws don't negotiate, they do. Or are you going to tell me that if we don't vote for him, he won't comply with the statute? Singing to the canaries? No; we're not going to allow it. Mr. Married, you're responsible for what's going on. [[Rumors]] You've spent the weeks telling others what they had to do while waiting for you to sit down. You too have put political tactism above the citizen's interest. They don't wash their hands like Pontius Pilate. Finally, Mr Sánchez, I say to you that today I speak for the people who trusted me and my party; I speak for the women and men who went to an election school to give us their confidence. They have pressured me in every possible way to betray them, but I will not do it because they are my people, and in his name I say to him: no, no and a thousand times no. I am not going to betray this country or its citizens; I am not going to betray the Canary Islands in exchange for you to comply with your duties, because your duties are far above you, Mr Sánchez. His ambition of power is immense, he is proving it, because, although he does not believe it, there are limits that cannot be exceeded. I'm not going to be an accomplice to this, and that's why I'm going to vote no for your investiture. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, good afternoon to everyone. This debate is a clear dichotomy: either there is an end to the political blockade in Spain or more political blockade and unacceptable new elections. That is what we are playing here today and that is what hides the contest of nonsense in which has become a part of the discourse of Spanish politics, because, in the end, who will be responsible for that to happen? Again, it will be the fault of the south. For this reason, Nueva Canarias has fulfilled a commitment that it established in the electoral campaign and that it maintains, that it is trying to collaborate with the unlocking of Spanish politics through an agreement with which it has to make an agreement, that it is who has the possibility to govern, that it is the Socialist Party, with which we have signed an agreement yesterday to which we will honour tomorrow. At the state level, this agreement aims to demonstrate the decisive failure of the ultra-liberal recipe to overcome the crisis, which, among many other evils, meant that the real ones responsible for the crisis were left behind and paid for by the weakest - the middle classes and the popular classes - more inequality and more poverty. On the Canary Islands level, the Canarian nationalists and New Canarias know that we are either relevant in Spanish politics or those that will be irrelevant will be the interests of Canaries, because under the frivolization of Canaries as a tourist destination, where everything is pink and the cheapest tobacco, hides a very harsh reality, as some of you know and I have an obligation to point out. To that extent, by the way, it is forgotten that when we talk about territorial singularities, there is no one who says what is the maximum territorial singularity in the Spanish State. They don't know which one it is? The canary. The Canary Islands is the highest territorial singularity in the Spanish State, with all the respect that they know I have for the rest of the territorial singularities. For this reason, we have signed a demanding agreement with the defence and recognition of the canary rights established in their fora and with their fiscal and economic singularities, which are precisely the product of that difference. I won't be able to tell everything, as always, but I'll take advantage of the replica to finish. And I also want to say something to you: this hard Brexit can be a decisive blow to the interests of the Canary Islands. We trust that this agreement will be honoured by defending the interests of Spain and the Canary Islands in the European Union, honouring our status as an ultraperipheral region. Then I'll go on. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. There are some who love the smell of napalm in the mornings, gasoline and burnt land; they are those who do not hesitate to burn Spain when it is not theirs, those who do not seek to solve people's problems, they only seek power to maintain their privileges, to serve the powerful forever; they are irresponsible that, when their vows turn their backs on them, they do not hesitate to use the judicial infantry that they themselves appointed to create an Apocalypse now every day; they are saboteurs who represent that closed, monolithic, ancient, exclusive and selfish Spain. [[laughs]] For all of them a very clear idea: this investiture we are going to win it, and we are going to win it those who believe that this state is diverse, plural, multilingual, modern and supportive. [[applause]] Compromís comes here with a clear determination: we are going to vote in favour of this investiture, in favour of the candidate, for several reasons For respect for the millions of citizens who want us to seek agreements and not continue to create problems every day. [[Applauds]] Because this agreement is absolutely legitimate. Those who will allow this investiture to prosper are more: we are more Members, more votes; respectable, legitimate votes, like those of all. For Compromís today is an important day: for the first time in history a Valencian formation signs a pact for the governability of the state; for the first time the Valencian agenda is part of a pact to elect president. The pact we signed yesterday with the Socialist Party is a responsible, possible, supportive, necessary pact that will improve the well-being of millions of people and give just treatment to Valencians and Valencians. It is a pact that in the crucial points only gives an impetus to compliance with the law, something elementary, of common sense: to set an eight-month deadline for a proposal for a new financing system on the table; a new system that, by law, had to be approved more than five years ago and by which the PP did nothing at all; a financing system that is once fair to the Valencians and the Valencians, but also to the Murcians, with the Balearic Islands, with the Andalusians; a pact that gradually, at the end of the legislature, the State assumes 50% of the dependence, as the law marks; a pact for the State to sign the European Social Charter to expand social rights, to protect our agriculture, to bet on investments in neighbourhoods, the train of every day. It is a nine-point pact that includes just claims by Valencians, claims that have been approved by all parliamentary groups in the Valencian Courts. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we must be brave. They can't shake our legs today. This legislature has to come out; it will come out despite the roars we hear daily, despite the orchestral maneuvers in the dark. We want a government that expands social rights, complies with the agreement and implements the Valencian agenda, that is courageous and that does not shake its legs. Finally, let me give you some advice, ladies and gentlemen, on the right, the right and the right that is leaving, because lately I see you very upset. [[Rumors]] This is a small remedy for you to tempt your nerves; a chaste, traditional, Spanish remedy, as you like, very Spanish. [[Mr. Baldoví Roda shows a tila bag]] This humble tila bag, taken in moderate amounts, does true miracles. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, leave napalm and petrol, resign, because this legislature is about to start on Tuesday. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u92	Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u93	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want my first words to be in my own language, in the language of my people, of that Galicia which has historically been abused by the Spanish governments and which, despite this, is not resigned and is proud to stand up and defend its rights as a nation and as a people. For this reason, the firm commitment of the BNG is to defend Galicia's interests above all else, from the most immediate to the strategic, from the solution to the industrial crisis to the right to self-determination and sovereignty as a way for our country to have full capacity to decide on its affairs. At the moment, in the context of the investiture process, we have put the Galician agenda on the table and we have worked in the last few days to reach an agreement that will unlock the solution to the main social and economic problems that we face, among them, to end the scam of the AP-9, to ensure the continuity of jobs in the electro-intensive industry and in shipbuilding, to ensure a fair energy transition, to reactivate the Law of dependency, to advance in the fight against gender violence, to regenerate our ria, to modernise the internal railway network and, at the very least, to advance in the willingness to transfer all the competences envisaged or demanded by the Galician Parliament. And we did it. Of course, we aspire to more, but we have managed to take steps in clear commitments to unlock a situation that they were unable to unlock the Spanish governments of recent years and the submissive and inoperative disgovernment of the People's Party in Galicia. We only hope, Mr. candidate, that your Government will comply strictly and diligently with its commitments to a country that has been waiting too long and that so far knows more about the marginalization, oblivion and non-compliance of the Spanish governments than about solutions. We clearly say that the Government that you propose to lead is not our Government, and not just because no Spanish Government will ever be our Government, but because in the programme of the coalition that is going to lead there are many insufficient, inconcrete or half-way elements left in the necessary implementation of truly transformative policies when not clearly continuous and with which we deeply disagree. Among these, he is committed to reforming the model of a unitary State in the face of the necessary recognition of its plurinational character, of the existence of nations such as Galicia and, therefore, of the recognition of a fundamental right such as the right of self-determination. [[A lady Member: Come now, man!-Applause.-A lady Member utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u95	However, the agreement reached between the PSOE and the BNG, which will allow us to move forward and improve the quality of life of all Galicians and Galicians, as well as our political responsibility as a democratic force in closing the step to that ultra-and more Spanishist right, leads us to vote in favour of his investiture as President of the Spanish Government. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] It is not a blank cheque or much less a parliamentary agreement, only a timely support to enable a government to exist and not new elections. In this regard, I would like to make it clear that the BNG is not linked or will be linked to its government action, except as regards the agreement established... [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u97	... except for the agreed agreement and those policies in which we coincide and represent progress in rights, democracy and well-being. I wish there were a lot of them, because that means we're moving forward. Thank you. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u98	Thank you, Mr. Rego. I now give the floor to Mr. Mazón Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the PRC was founded to defend Cantabria's interests and regain its name and identity, but at the same time it is a deeply Spanish party and solidarity with the rest of the autonomous communities of Spain. We define ourselves as a progressive party and because since its foundation we have always defended the most disadvantaged and the interests of Cantabria, for this reason we voted in favour of Mr Sánchez in the last legislature and we were the only party other than his that supported him. But in my speech in July in this rostrum, after presenting Cantabria's claims and without it being in the discussion at that time, I said the following, appealing to the Constitution and the rule of law in relation to Catalonia: 'Everything is possible within the current legal order. ... but there is one thing... clear:... any decision on Catalonia must be made among all the Spaniards, because... it affects the rights that we all have in that part of Spain. ... Cantabria has always been a loyal region with the rest of Spain, and it will remain so.' Journal of Meetings of 23 July 2019. I think I made it clear and that you understood it. We said it then, we have repeated it these months during the campaign and we repeat it now: we are a coherent party and that is why, among other reasons, we voted 21% of the cantabria when before it was only 14%, and we are now the first party in Cantabria. We have heard your program and read the government agreement, and we have assumed it. We agree globally with him, especially with the social agenda - there are also things that we don't like very much, but we're not going to pretend to adopt our program - but then we've read the deal with the Republican Left of Catalonia and we've seen things that seem inexhaustible to us. I do not have time here to go into detail, I will just say two things: we find it unheard of that an agreement between the Generalitat and the Government of Spain that affects the territorial balance, as it will certainly affect, only they vote for it in Catalonia and not in all of Spain, and that in my modest opinion is also unconstitutional. We find it inconceivable that it is not expressly stated that any agreement, any measure that is intended to be taken within this framework, is within the Constitution. We have not changed, their circumstances have changed, and I think I reflect with our position the feeling of the vast majority of Spaniards, of many socialist voters, of millions of non-independence Catalans who are currently demoralized and who would not admit any concessions to the independenceists outside the framework of the Constitution. [[Applauds]] With all due respect, Mr Sánchez, if you wish us to change our vote, which is unfavourable at the moment, please take this up here and say it to the representatives of the Republican Left of Catalonia, whose votes you need to be invested. And as for the agreements in Cantabria, we consider them to be in force because they are of justice for all the cantabrians and not just for the PRC, because we are in politics to defend the interests of all the citizens of Cantabria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. Finally, Mr Guitarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u101	Thank you, President and ladies and gentlemen. In 1974 a government minister then in force, Cruz Martínez Esteruelas, came to Teruel to inaugurate a school town and said to us: You Turolenses, that you are destined to emigrate to make other neighboring territories flourish, since you are going to emigrate, please emigrate formed, and for that we make you this school. This shows the fate that the State has had for decades for the province of Teruel: for its men and women, emigration; for its natural resources, expoliation, exploitation, internal colonialism. That's why today it hurts me especially when from that bench we are being wanted to tell what we have to do with the Turolenses. We demand respect for the Turolians. Our future will be decided by us. [[Applauds]] And I denounce here that we are being subjected to tremendous pressure from the media, from social networks even this very morning, filling my people, my region, my region with paints. [[Rumours.-Applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the United Parliamentary Group]] I take this opportunity to say that if anyone believes that he or she is directly or indirectly responsible for these paintings, that they have already been denounced before the security forces, that he or she should give the order, please, to stop and withdraw. [[Laughter]] Teruel Exists is a citizen movement, we are normal people and street people. I must admit that this morning I felt ashamed to see the terms and the hardness with which it was spoken here. That's not the Spain we want. That is not the cohesion and dialogue we are demanding from all sides. We are a transversal movement in which there are right-wing citizens and left-wing citizens, but we are able to put aside the ideology to put ourselves together to work, in this case, in the face of the forgetfulness of our province. We also ask that this be done for the whole of Spain. Let us be able to put aside the massive preponderance of ideologies and put ourselves to work on the problems people have, on the problems of people, on a daily basis. We are going to close a thermal power plant in the province of Andorra, which cannot have a just transition agreement because there is no Government and, as there is no Government, there are no alternatives to employment or safety for all those people who are going to be unemployed, more than 450 people and more than 4000 indirect jobs. No Government has solved the structural problems that the province has for its development - none - for more than forty years of democracy and for many of the dictatorship. We are not a political party. Today is the first time in history that a group of voters - i.e. directly the citizens - arrives at Congress; and it becomes the most voted force in its province, the most voted over the traditional majority parties. This means, even if you do not want to recognize it, that part of the territory of this country has been mobilized by the tiredness and abandonment to which it has been subjected for decades by the State. Successive Governments have consistently failed to comply with articles 131, 138 and 139 of the Constitution, which mandate the balance between the territories of Spain, and it is a Constitution that we are all committed to respecting. The revolt of emptied Spain, which began at the massive demonstration on 31 March in Madrid, showed that the imbalance and lack of territorial cohesion affect not only the province of Teruel, but a large part of the Spanish territory. We are demonstrating a global problem from the local point of view. We are not localists, but we are showing a very serious global problem for Spain that needs global and urgent solutions to solve it. We therefore consider it a matter of priority that the fight against the depopulation and the territorial, social, economic and demographic rebalancing of rural Spain should become finally State issues. We understand that this change can only take place through dialogue and political consultation, and that this responsibility lies equally with all political groups, whether or not they bear governmental responsibilities at national, regional or local level. Therefore, from this rostrum we call for the signing of a pact of State for territorial rebalancing, for repopulation and for the creation of a specific ministry in order to address this challenge consciously, decisively and immediately. This pact must inexcusably include for us a stable mechanism of financing in order to end once and in the medium term the internal inequalities of the two Spains that we have consciously or unconsciously created: a developed Spain and another emptied Spain. The extreme gravity of this problem that we denounce; the radical social, territorial, heritage and cultural injustice that implies...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u102	Mr. Guitar, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u103	... the realization of how it has been played with our lives and finances for the benefit of others, and the conviction that empty Spain has said enough leads us to warn that, if the political action during this beginning legislature does not show a real will manifested in the successive budgets of the State, we will seek a solution of cohesion and territorial rebalancing and we will be able - do not have the slightest doubt that we will be able - to articulate a firm, stable and permanent response. That is, either in this legislature we see that there is a real will to solve the problem that we denounce or emptied Spain will have to take an example of what Teruel has done.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u104	Mr. Guitarte, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u105	Can we use the replica time?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u106	It's just that you've run out of replica time too.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u107	Without any kind of party or electoral calculation and always within the constitutional framework, Teruel Existe will fulfil his commitment in the electoral campaign to facilitate the governance demanded by Spanish society and simply to avoid a third election, and does so on institutional responsibility. Nine months ago the heart of Spain emptied strong latía just a few meters from the door of Congress, today a part of that heart is in here and I assure you that we will not allow that beating to stop being heard, which is the beating of most of the country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u108	Thank you, Mr. Guitarte. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u109	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you to all the members of the Plural Group. I will refer to each and every one of them, not without first thanking all the members of the group who have expressed the affirmative vote in the inaugural session of my candidature to the Presidency of the Government for the eternal thanks both of me and of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for being able to make it possible. Because indeed, as the representative of Teruel Existe has said, it is clear that it is unacceptable to go to third elections and that with the composition so complex, so different, so diverse that there is today in the Congress of Deputies as a result of the will of the Spaniards with their vote today we are making it possible: one, understanding; two, governability, and three, to launch a legislature to address many of the challenges and challenges that have been put up here on the table, and singularly one very important one to which the last representative of this group has referred, which is the demographic challenge and the fight against depopulation. I will begin by addressing Mrs Borràs, the representative of Junts per Catalunya, to say several things that I understand we can share or at least I would like to ask her. I am prepared to acknowledge that the State and that the Government, not only us, but also previous governments, have made mistakes. In fact, when we were in the opposition, Mrs Borràs, we warned the majority group, the People's Party, and Mr Rajoy, then in the Government, of the mistakes that they were making and that it was necessary to open a path of political dialogue with the Generalitat of Catalonia, with the members of independence in order to be able to resolve a political conflict and that the judicial drift was indeed dangerous because of the dynamics that it opened up, that were outside and that escaped political control, and in the end we find ourselves in a situation in which we actually have to respond from the political point of view to judicial decisions that logically have another logic, another dynamic as it corresponds to a rule of law such as we have in our country. Therefore, I tell you here, from the rostrum, that I assume those mistakes, that responsibility, even having been leader of the opposition and having told the then President of the Government that we had to resume the path of politics. But I would also like, Mrs Borràs, for us all to take on our political mistakes. Or have you done everything right? Look, Mrs Borràs, you have referred to some judgments in Strasbourg, you have also referred to the judgment of the European Court of Justice, and I have to say the following: I share the analysis of the State's Advocate that, in fact, the judgments of the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg are judgments of a national court, this is a European government and this is a government that defends each and every one of the judgments, and it also assumes them from the national level, because, like the Supreme Court, the European Court of Justice is a national court. [[Applauds]] But I also say to you, Mrs Borràs, that we should all make an amendment. As I said in my first speech, let us resume the dialogue, let us restart, because I do believe that Catalan society, both the independenceist and the non-independenceist, and the whole of Spanish society, will thank it. But look at what the European Court of Human Rights, the Court of Strasbourg, Your Honor, said about what happened in 2017. The European Court of Human Rights said that it was necessary to defend the legality of the protection of the rights and freedoms of third parties from abuses committed by the parliamentary majority and made it clear that a political party can campaign for a change in the law or in the legal or constitutional structures of the State, provided that it uses legal and democratic means and proposes a cambo compatible with fundamental democratic principles. This is said by the Court of Strasbourg, this is said by the European Court of Human Rights and gives reason to the Spanish State in the face of the unilateral bankruptcy that was raised by independence in 2017. Therefore, if we all have to assume some guilt, some responsibility, for what we are suffering right now in Catalonia, for the territorial litigation that our country is suffering, I ask you, Your Honor: Do you also assume that responsibility? Do you or do you not assume that the unilateral declaration of independence by the Parliament of Catalonia was a mistake? Do you or do you not assume as a mistake that the then President of the Generalitat of Catalonia, Mr Puigdemont, will not call an autonomous election and derive everything from that unilateral declaration of independence? Do you assume or not, ladies and gentlemen, that it is difficult to understand, and I say not for us but for the citizens on foot, not only in Catalonia but throughout the country, to say that we want to dialogue with the Government of Spain, that we want Spain to sit down and dialogue with Catalonia, as you put it, and to prevent with your vote, together with the ultra-right and the People's Party, a government that recognizes that this dialogue table must be opened between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia? [[Applauds]] Moreover, it is rather curious and quite contradictory to say, Mrs Borràs, and that is why I ask you and those who represent, to defend a dialogue and at the same time to defend the unilateral path. Either one thing or the other; the two, Your Honor, are incompatible. That is why, Mrs Borràs, I am concerned that you will say that you will do it again, because you will do what again, a unilateral declaration of independence? In the last CEO, the sociological research institute of Catalonia, the unilateral path is only supported by 11% of Catalans and Catalans; that is, there is a vast majority of Catalans and Catalans who do not want the unilateral path, and I have not listened to the group you represent or the leaders you represent in this House to renounce the unilateral path. I think it would be a good step for you here today, from this rostrum, to say that, in fact, you assume that this political dialogue must be opened and that you assume that the unilateral path is a failed one to resolve the territorial dispute in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you call it repression. You say the state acts. It is contradictory to say that the State does not act, in this case the Judicial Power, on unilateral derivations. That is why we, and I, in this case as President of the Government, have committed myself in my investiture speech to return politics to political territory. But I cannot do it alone, Your Honor, and I am therefore grateful that at least the constitution of a government is facilitated with the abstention, in this case, of the Republican Left. I would also like you to reconsider your position, because it seems to me that you have no arguments; you have excuses that perhaps have more to do with the electoral horizon that can be opened in Catalonia than with the reality of trying to solve a political crisis in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Mrs Borràs, I'm serious, I have no problem with you defending self-determination. Here, in this House, self-determination was defended when talking about the Spanish Constitution. When the Spanish Constitution was being drafted, an amendment to self-determination was defended by different nationalist court groups and was democratically rejected by the will of national sovereignty. Therefore, I am aware that in this committee of dialogue you are going to put self-determination on the table, and I am going to defend, with the same passion that you defend self-determination, the opposite. And does that mean that my position is not legitimate and that yours is legitimate, that it is you who want to dialogue and we do not want to dialogue? No, no, I will try to convince you, but especially the Catalans who support you, that the best way to resolve this territorial dispute is to reach an agreement; indeed, it is to vote, but it is to vote an agreement, not a break, not a bankruptcy. [[Applauds]] You tell the Socialist Party what the Socialist Party's proposal is. If the proposal of the Socialist Party, Your Honor, is well known. Here it has been said by the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group, of the far right, I imagine that Mrs Arrimadas will also say this when she intervenes, because they are a little in the same vein. It is the Declaration of Granada, it is the Declaration of Barcelona. We are the only party at national level that has put on the table a proposal for a solution to the territorial dispute. You may not consider it sufficient, with all legitimacy, but you cannot say that we do not have a proposal on the table to resolve the dispute in Catalonia. Of course we have it! Look, in that CEO of last December, I think I remember, or November, I now fail to remember, reform and improvement of self-government has a social support in Catalonia of 71.9%; independence has a rejection of 48.8% Catalans and Catalans. You will say: For let us vote for self-determination because we will actually see if we are more or less. Your Honor, as I have said before, I have no problem sitting with you, with the Republican Left, discussing, debating, dialogue, dialogue, and trying to convince you that the best way to solve many of the problems we have on the table as a society, which have to do with inequality, which have to do with the lack of opportunities, which have to do with the ecological transition, which have to do with the need to strengthen a common project, which is Europe, the best way to solve all these problems is to do it together, is to walk together. [[Applauds]] But, I insist, that does not mean that we are not dialogues and you are. We, at least - let me say it - have the same will for dialogue with you as with other political formations and we will defend with passion - the same as you do - indeed our political positions. It is clear that we have very distant political positions, very far away; but, I insist, it is a pity, Your Honor, that you are going to vote against the formation of a government that opens up the opportunity for both governments to sit down and initiate that dialogue. But, finally, it probably has more to do with internal dynamics of Catalan politics and the electoral horizon than with any other issue, because, if not, it is not understood that you are going to vote with the ultra-right, with the People's Party and with Citizens against the progressive coalition government. In any case, you have said one thing that I think is important, Your Honor, and that is that indeed the confrontation, the Catalan territorial dispute is blocking Spanish policy, and it is true. But isn't it blocking Catalan politics? Look, you guys, how many years has it been without budget approval? They've approved them now or they're going to approve them. Who do they approve with? They approve them with a political party that does not depend or, rather, does not belong to the independence bloc. What do I mean by that? That to solve and unlock the political situation in Catalonia and Spain what we have to do is transcend the dynamics of blocs. For this reason, I am grateful at least that Esquerra Republicana gives this opportunity to the transcendence of blocks in Spanish politics. [[Applauds]] I will also tell you one thing about what you have said, Mrs Borràs, and it is that, in fact, dialogue has many enemies, and these days we see them more active than ever, but the reason and arguments are more powerful than the screams. Indeed, dialogue, in order to bear fruit, cannot be based on imposition. At least stay with that thought, Mrs Borràs. I would also like to thank Mrs Sabanes, with whom I had the honour of sharing a seat at the Madrid City Council a few years ago, and to tell her that it is an honour to share a seat with you again here at the Congress of Deputies. You have had a job, not only since the municipal government of the City of Madrid; the truth is that it is a shame that Carmena does not continue to be mayor of Madrid. [[Several Members: Oh!]] Yes, I understand that you owe everything to the far right, what we're going to do to him. [[Applauds]] If the price that the People's Party has to pay precisely is to stand up to Mr Ortega Smith - right now we do not have the pleasure of counting on his presence - to tell him that they are also not in favour of calling him gender-based violence and that, in fact, they are defending domestic violence, perhaps, Mrs Sabanes, is an insurmountable price like the one we are seeing unfortunately now at the Madrid City Hall. You have said important things and I would first of all like to thank you for the will that has always been expressed by More Country in the unlocking of the Spanish political situation. I may not have explained myself well, but obviously both feminism and ecology are going to be cross-cutting issues for this government. So, feminism is, it has been in many of the policies that we have put in place over the past few months and it will also be in the coming years, and ecologicalism is just as much of the same. We are looking at very ambitious objectives; I repeat: 100 per cent of electricity supply thanks to renewable energy in 2050. Because we also understand, Your Honor - and in this we share ideological similarities - that climate change poses different, new contexts for us to fight for the causes that have always defined to the left. When we talk about equality or, for example, combating inequality, who suffers more from the consequences of climate change than people with fewer resources? And I am not only talking, indeed, about migration - there is now that figure of climate refugees - but we are also talking about those people who cannot pay the bill of light or who do not see the provision of basic resources such as water insured. When we talk about climate change, we are also talking about opportunities and, in that regard, I want you to know that, of course, one of the approaches of this Government and the progressive coalition is that this ecological transition is fair because no one can stand behind. That is also a difference between the left and the right in the field of progress. We do not want to leave anyone behind and the right what it does is to propose a progress in which it is less and less those who fit on that ship and more those who are expelled. And, without a doubt, intergenerational solidarity too. Here there has been an important summit to which Spain has responded in a gesture not only of multilateral commitment, of commitment to the cause of the ecological transition but also of commitment to the Ibero-American community in a very difficult context, and in a month - and also in the midst of an electoral campaign - we were able as a country to start and host the COP25 of Chile in our capital - I have thanked all the institutions for their contest -. And we have witnessed the face and the cross; we have seen many young people marching through the streets of Madrid in favour of precisely defending the planet and we have also seen reactionary people who have called into question, for example, the political commitment of some of those most illustrious young figures. Of course, I identify myself more with the young people who marched through the streets of Madrid defending something that is left - I think it even transcends the left; at least it belongs to the DNA of the left - and it is intergenerational solidarity. In that sense, if I have misexplained myself, Mrs Sabanes; of course, climate change will be a cross-cutting element in the political action of the progressive coalition, as is feminism. Mrs Oramas has expressed her vote against. I am sorry, Mrs Oramas; I am sorry that we cannot meet, that the Canary Coalition does not abstain in the investiture, as I understood yesterday that I was going to do. I regret that you join other votes of the ultra-right, of the right, of the anti-systems, to block the only possible formation of government, because the Spanish have also wanted it. I just want to remind you of one thing, Your Honor: we advocate that bilaterality is a matter for the State. In fact, the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy also recognizes that figure of bilaterality and, therefore, I do not understand why you have these resquemors. [[Applauds]] We have done very important things for the Canary Islands during these seventeen months. In the crisis, for example, of a very important tourism airline for the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands such as Thomas Cook, the Ministry of Industry and the government as a whole put on the table resources, alternatives, solutions for the tourism sector, a very important sector for employment and the growth of the Canarian economy. I believe that this has also been recognized by the Canarian citizen because I have to remind him that the Socialist Party is the first force in the Canaries, and it has been not only once but five times in the last year's elections. [[Applauds]] In any case, Mrs Oramas, I would like you to reflect. I really ask you, I would like you to think about it, I would like you to at least think about moving from the block of the blockade to the block of facilitating the investiture and to let the legislature go, that we start walking and that we might perhaps find points of agreement. We still have time from here to Tuesday day 7 so that you can reflect on the consequences of the blockade and its vote against, the loss of opportunity and relevance that Mr Quevedo has said, which I think is important. Being relevant is not a question of the number of seats you have in the Congress of Deputies, of the honor you may have to represent with more or less deputies and deputies in this case to a political formation such as yours, of nationalist court, but I think it is to put them at the service of the common good, of utility, to be useful. Fifty-seven seats, fifty-two, one hundred and twenty-eight and nine if they are not put at the service of the utility and the common good, in this case the Canary Islands and the whole country. I understand your difficulties, you have said it many times from this rostrum; you have many doubts to say it in politically correct terms - about a coalition government with United We Can; I do not share those fears. In any case, Your Honor, I believe that the Socialist Party has agreed with the Canary Islands Coalition on many occasions and we can do so perfectly. Therefore, at least let the legislature go with its abstention and not with its vote against. I would like to thank Mr Quevedo warmly for his affirmative vote. We have also shared candidacy in the 2016 elections, we have shared many years and many months of great political intensity. I believe that the reflection you make on the relevance of each of the seats is important and that we can do many things together. I know that Mr Román and Mr Ángel Víctor Torres are doing very important things for the Canary Islands and Canary Islands, and in this regard I want to assure you that the Government of Spain, to the extent of our possibilities and capabilities, will logically try to respond and not disappoint that Canary Agenda which you have put on the table in your necessary and brief intervention, full of content and which we share. To Mr Baldoví, from Compromís, I would also like to thank him warmly for his affirmative vote. I know that for the party of Compromís it is very important the political gesture that they will make of getting involved in the stability and governability of the country. I have to tell you that we have followed very closely during these years the political life in the Valencian Community, that we are extremely proud of the work, the task of democratic regeneration and progress that the PSPV is leading together with Compromís in that community, and that we are certainly empathetic and feel close to many of its demands. Of course, this is a progressive coalition that is going to propose the strengthening and reconstruction of the welfare state and for that you have previously made an explicit reference not only to autonomous financing, but also to the National Unit System, which we need to revitalize. That is why it is important to resolve autonomous financing. It is true that it will not depend solely on us, Your Honor, but it will also depend on other autonomous governments of different signs, but on the velocities, shouts and scares that are heard here by the opposition parliamentary groups - and I am referring in particular to the People's Party - their autonomous presidents, who touch the ground and who know what it means to govern and who know that things cost more than coming to this rostrum and say the things that we have heard this morning from the opposition leader, are also aware that autonomous financing must be renewed and that it must be done by finding that balance, as you have well mentioned, between per capita funding for autonomous communities that have increased the population over the last few years as a result of economic development and other autonomous communities, as the spokesman for Teruel Existe, said, where we are faced with a silent but very present challenge such as that of depopulation and demographic challenge. Of course, I have to tell you that for us the Botanical Agreement has been an inspiration, and it has been not only in the seventeen months following the motion of censure, when we have put in place things that you have already put forward, such as the recovery of the universality of public health or the reversal of some private hospitals that have returned to the public, but we also intend to do many of these issues at the national level. The fact that you raised the Valencian income of inclusion, the Valencian pact against gender-based violence or what I have told you before about the recovery of universal health has been a source of inspiration for this progressive coalition and I would like to thank you in that regard for the Valencian contribution not only to governability, but also for the inspiration of the policies that will be put in place. Mr. Rego, representative of the BNG, thank you. I thank you very much for taking a step forward. That the representative of the Regionalist Party of Cantabria changed his affirmative vote to a negative vote has made even more important the contribution of the Galego Nationalist Block to this investiture and I do not want to overlook that, indeed, his affirmative vote is also very important. It is true that over the last few hours the government, the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, you and your representatives have been working on an agreement that I think is good; it is good for Spain and it is good for Galicia. I do not want to go into terms of that agreement because it is public and therefore known, but I hope, Your Honor, that we can find and strengthen that cooperation and cooperation not only in Spain but also in Galicia, because that will mean that a change can occur in Galicia, and we hope that it will be as soon as possible. [[Applauds]] Mr. Guitarte is very grateful for a number of things. The first of them, their courage as they go up to this rostrum. [[Applauds]] All of us here are very aware that we have had our baptism, that going up to this rostrum imposes, that having not had political experience before makes it more difficult or at least more transcendent, and I have to say that it has done so in an outstanding way. [[Rumors]] We share a lot of things. [[The Rumors Continue]] Yes, I think it has been brave to denounce all this outrage with which in some way conservative and, I would say, ultra-rightist space is undermining the free exercise to vote what a representative of the people considers to be in the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] It is true, Your Honor, that the strategy of the demographic challenge was a commitment made by the previous Administration, by Mr Rajoy, I think I recall that in 2015, at a Conference of Presidents, the first and only one that Mr Rajoy made throughout his term, in the seven years that he was at the head of the Government of Spain. The commitment of the autonomous communities was then raised to the Government of Spain to present a demographic challenge strategy; they did not do so and the Socialist Party had to come in order, in a matter of months, to adopt that national strategy because of the demographic challenge and, indeed, we have not had time to implement and develop it. [[Protests]] It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that we have been in office for a long time and want to put it into operation as soon as possible. I believe that the Government of Aragon, the Government of the Socialist Party of Mr Lambán is doing many things too, for example by opening rural schools, by opening rural health care centres, those which precisely during the previous administrations of the People's Party were closed, and in particular in Teruel. I believe that the autonomous government is doing important things for Teruel and we are certainly going to continue that path. You said - and I think it is important - that we need more funding to deal with that empty Spain. You are absolutely right, and not just in the area of autonomous financing. I want to tell you something important and it is that the Spanish Government is working at European level, even if it is in office, as we have been in recent months. This year is going to be the year in which - hopefully - the multiannual financial framework, i.e. the budgets of the European Union, can be put in place and approved. Here is the CAP, to which I referred in my first speech this morning, but I also want to refer to the cohesion funds. As long as the cohesion funds, and also the CAP, are important to curb the challenge of depopulation, I would like to say that the Spanish Government is of course going to defend in Brussels a CAP and cohesion funds sufficiently endowed to be able to deal with demographic criteria to this reality, which, by the way, we not only share and suffer in Spain in many territories, but when one has the opportunity to speak with other national leaders of other European Union countries he realizes that they also share this concern. To tell you an anecdote: a few months ago the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Social Democrat, came - I am not talking about Merkel, who is the Chancellor, but about the President - and he drew a lot of attention to me because I asked him what he was going to do the day after the meeting we had in Moncloa and told me that he was going to Extremadura and that he was doing it precisely because he wanted to talk to the extremist authorities to see, in situ, the policies that are being put in place to curb depopulation and to fight against this common evil that Europe has. It caught my attention that this was happening in Germany and I asked him precisely about this issue, and he told me that, indeed, Germany too - and, look, it is a well-developed economy - is suffering from this problem of depopulation and ageing. With this, I would like to say that this is a debate, as you have said, and I liked it to be global; it is not a localist debate, it is a global debate that demands to dump not economic resources alone, but also political wills on a local level, on an autonomous scale - as is being done - on a national level - as we are going to do - and also on a European level, as I also pledge myself to you and to this House to lead, if I have the confidence of this House next Tuesday in order to be able to carry out my investiture. And Mr. Mazón I want to tell him that I'm very sorry, and the truth is that I don't understand the arguments very well either. You have defined your party as a progressive party, a party that defends the autonomous state, that defends in this case Cantabria, and that defends the unity of Spain. Well, we agree, Mr. Mazón. I also do not understand why you question the commitment to the Constitution of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Honestly, I don't understand, I don't think we gave him any reason. Moreover, I believe that if there is a party that is defending the Constitution, a plural, diverse Constitution, with a non-uniform reading but a rich reading, so that it can not only widen the scope for action and solve problems that have to do with social matters but also with territorial litigation in Catalonia, that has been the Socialist Party. Moreover, Mr. Mazón, I ask you one thing. If in the end we come to an agreement and we vote on the part of the Catalans, because in addition it is constitutionally recognized not only in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia but in eleven statutes of autonomy, Mr. Mazón, would that be a failure for you? Do you consider that the current situation has to be maintained for life? Do you not think that the responsibility that you would have to demand from me as President of the Government or, rather, as a candidate for the Presidency of the Government is that you would have to put on the table all the energies and wills and all the political intelligence that the State has to solve this territorial dispute? And you say no, that what you're going to do is sit in the block of the blockade, along with those you blame precisely their political positions. That is to say, you are placing yourself with the block the worse, the better; or the worse, the worse, by following the line - which I share - of Mr Garzón in his speech. I don't understand, Mr. Mazón, I don't understand. And I hope that at least the words of this speech, and of this morning, and of this debate of investiture, will make you and Mr Revilla and your party reconsider your position. It does not stop drawing attention, Mr. Mazón, to say that the agreement we signed remains in force; that is, you say that it is a matter of justice and I share it with you, but if it is a matter of justice, why does it deny the creation of the Government that is going to solve these questions of justice in Cantabria? [[Applauds]] I don't understand. Therefore, Mr. Mazón - and with this I finish - I would like your party to reconsider its position; I think it is not reasonable. We are talking about two political parties that are being understood and that are ruling in Cantabria; it would put things in an unsustainable situation. I don't think you have much interest in governing supported by the People's Party in Cantabria. You know what, I don't know. I believe that if something has benefited Cantabria, as well as Cantabria's contribution to Spain and Spanish politics has been precisely the understanding of two progressive forces such as the Regionalist Party of Cantabria and the Socialist Party of Cantabria. [[Rumors]] I hope and wish you will reconsider your position. We still have time and I hope that they will do so in the vote tomorrow and in the vote next Tuesday. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Candidate. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u111	Mr Sánchez, you have told me many things - I have been writing them down - and I will try to answer you as neatly as I can in the time I have. He was talking about the warnings they made to the PP about his mistakes. I don't know, just like with one hand they warned them, but with the other they encouraged them because signing 155 doesn't seem to lead to correcting mistakes, but to generate bigger mistakes, capital errors, which are the ones that have taken us where we are at this time. He said that you take the sentences, that he agreed. Then I don't know why Oriol Junqueras can't exercise as a Europarliamentary if they take the decisions. He was talking about guilt, he was talking about responsibility and who was going to pay for it. [[The Lord]] I wonder, do we have to pay even more? More jail? More exile? More pain? And with respect to that prison, that exile, that pain, those guilts or those responsibilities, you were talking about starting over. So, does that affect you? Is it retroactive or not? He talked about the elections; he said: you made mistakes. You will have heard the President of the Generalitat - the legitimate President of the Generalitat, Carles Puigdemont - talk about the mistakes he made and you will have heard him say that he wanted, that he proposed the call for elections. I used to talk to him about his book, but Mariano Rajoy's book says, he says, that even though elections had been called in Catalonia, 155 would have been applied. So let's stop looking back and look forward. [[Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, candidate for the Presidency of the Government, spoke words that were not perceived]] I have little time later, if anything, then you tell me. Unilaterality. I haven't talked about unilaterality, but you have. Well, let's talk about unilaterality. It has been systematically implemented by the Spanish State. Right now there is an extraordinary plenary session in the Parliament of Catalonia precisely because unilaterally you want to cease your duties, disable the president who has chosen the citizens of Catalonia. You want more unilaterality than this? [[Applauds]] And I was talking about dialogue, something that I celebrate; I celebrate the tone and I welcome the invitation because we have always wanted to participate in that dialogue, we understand it as the basis of politics and I have offered it repeatedly and I will continue to offer it. He tells us that it is contradictory to defend dialogue and the unilateral way, and I ask him: And is it not contradictory to defend dialogue and to disqualify one of the interlocutors with whom he is going to dialogue? He was also talking about that negotiating table. To clarify, Mr Sánchez, will you come to that negotiating table with the Granada Declaration? Is the spirit of the Granada Declaration going to lead us to that negotiating table? To clarify. And then he talks about the election. He's talked a lot about whether this was short-term because of an election. Do you have more information than I have? Because the legislature in Catalonia ends, in principle, in December 2021. If you have more information, you can give it to us because we haven't talked about elections. And he talked about the CEO and the polls. Well, if you look at some figures, look at some. More than 80% of the population in Catalonia wants to vote in a referendum in order to decide their future. It would not be necessary to speak of unilaterality if there was a referendum to decide that future. But, in any case, the best poll is just a vote, putting ballots in the ballot box. In Catalonia, every time the ballot box goes out, independence wins. And the only and last question - and I finish, Mr President - that remains to be asked is whether it will ever have the courage to ask the Catalans democratically what they want or the guardians of the essences and unity of the State will continue to try to silence and repress anyone who tries to raise the voice to defend rights and freedoms. They assume a lot of being a consolidated democracy. Well, they don't consolidate repression. Dare, do it together, Mr. Iglesias and Mr. Sánchez. It is only a challenge, but it is a democratic challenge and I believe that we should be able to tackle it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs Borràs. Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u113	Thank you very much. Firstly, I would like to say that I am reassured by the President's clarification of the cross-cutting nature of climate change policies, because I thought I understood a certain sectoral bias in the first speech. I recognize that there is a clarification in terms of transversality and also in terms of opportunity, which reassures us. However, we had already seen the agreement with Unidad Podemos and in it there are very positive elements, such as the compulsory low-emission zones in cities with a population of over 50 000. Believe me this is to be thanked, because for us it has been a kind of sport of risk fighting for the health of citizens with Madrid Central and with the policy of combating pollution. It is therefore important that all this has a protective framework that allows cities to work with a great deal of cooperation and networking. The second very important element of what has been raised today is the Law on Financing Public Transport and Mobility. This is an opportunity for rebalancing; it is not only a necessity in the fight against pollution, but an opportunity for rebalancing infrastructure, mainly in the vicinity, in communities and for internal and external connections throughout the territory. It is worth working on this opportunity in the future. The same is true of the Climate Change Act. For us today, and I have said so, the condition is that you put your ability, courage and courage in it. From there, let's not be mistaken, we will have to work a lot every day, law to law, proposal to proposal, strategy to strategy, and for this I have offered our willingness both to support and to work. Without a doubt, fundamentally after COP25, in Europe they ask us not only to be ambitious, but to be a reference to that climate ambition. We have a lot to say in our internal speech, but we also have a lot to say about Europe and a much more global vision. Today, I wanted to have talked more about the future; we had a difficult morning, with a riveted review of the past. Therefore, it is worth it that we transfer to the citizenry that there is an opportunity for the future. We do not vote with excuses, we vote with conviction for this coalition government because we believe it is a very important option for change and transformation. Finally, there are a number of things that we do not see very clearly in the agreement: the child allowance, the agreement speaks of a decided increase, the children's and adolescents' organizations speak of 1200 euros; the issue of pensions with constitutional protection; a greater ambition in the objectives of the Climate Change Act, but I end up as I said at the beginning. The most important thing is to show clear courage and will for transformation. On the other hand, I am sure that working day by day, sharing, cooperating and taking into account the different voices, we will be able to move forward and achieve that transformation that our country needs. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Sabanes. Mrs Oramas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Sánchez, I thank you very much for the tone in which you have addressed me, but I want to say two things to you. Maybe the House doesn't know that you and I met ten years ago at an early night chat on National Radio, where you were the third alternate. The first was Pedro Zerolo, then was Mar Moreno and the third was Pedro Sánchez, and there we were until so many in the morning. He admired me that you had principles and coherence - he resigned, he traveled Spain and left - and today I want to tell him that I want him to respect me. I serve this country. During my years in politics I have supported the PSOE much more than the People's Party, and not voting today its investiture does not mean being with VOX or the right. Jerome Saavedra, Alfonso Guerra, Felipe González, Eduardo Madina, a lot of socialist people at best disagree with their fellow travelers. I have never been afraid of the PSOE; I was the only one who supported him in his agreement with Citizens and in the motion of censure a year ago, I said to him: I trust you, not your fellow travellers. I am a person who has never voted against his country or his convictions or his land, and I give him my word that today I cannot support him in this investiture because you have said much harder things about his fellow travellers a month ago than those I have said now, but I also say that I am a person who always votes for things that are good for the citizens. Today is the investiture, there are budgets, there are those Thursdays and those Tuesdays, that law on combating gender violence, the law on dependency, and this deputy - whether or not she is in her party because I have maintained coherence today - will continue to support this country and the things that are good for citizens. I give you my word. I give you my word, but those of us who do not support you today are neither extreme right nor fascists nor anything; simply, we are people who disagree and that is why I also ask you for respect. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u116	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mr Quevedo then has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u117	We're here again. I said before that I had things left to ask - telegraphically always - of the demanding agreement - as I have described - that we have signed with the Socialist Party when it comes to understanding the needs of the Canary Islands; no privilege, no privilege, is precisely the product of that singularity that I spoke of before. They understood that until the Catholic Kings, so look if it's funny. Now in this compromise we have to remind you of something that is very important. The canaries know that throughout the recent Spanish democratic history, however much it was in the law of the REF, recognized in the Constitution, that there was a Statute of Autonomy of the Canary Islands, etc., non-compliance has been the norm. We have tried to work and modify it between the two and the spirit of the agreement that we have signed is for that to be fulfilled, for the simple reason - if not, they had not said it - that it is pure justice and pure recognition of singularities. We're used to non-compliance with our outlaws. We have an example in the past budgets, which I also have to say that I think it would have been resolved at the time of the amendments, but I have to say here that with the same desire that things should be done well, that this should work, that we should demonstrate the viability of a policy other than that which has recently been directed by Spanish policy and in the European Union, we are now also calling for the agreements to be respected, that we should understand why we always have the fly behind our ears, and we do not have it for vague questions and we could prove it. I trust we don't let each other down. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u118	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. The next item is Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to start by making a couple of thanks. First of all, the Socialist Party's negotiating team has been difficult, but we have reached an agreement, and it has cost so many days. I would also like to thank the 175 000 Valencians who thought that Compromís was a useful option, who trusted in the usefulness of Compromís once again. We are the second most expensive Member of Parliament again and we are proud to contribute to the governability of this state. We are proud that the Valencian agenda is part of the commitment we have signed, to contribute to the well-being of many Valencians and also of many Spaniards and Spaniards, but be sure that we will fulfil, that we will be loyal partners. We will fulfill our part, we will contribute to governability, but we sincerely hope that you will comply with your part of the agreement, that is, with proposal number one, with number two... Finally, with the nine proposals that we have pointed out, but basically the first two: funding and dependence, because they are not just one thing about me, but one thing about all the Spaniards, of ours. I therefore sincerely hope that you will comply. By the way, a message for Thomas, from Teruel Exists. Tom, no case, no case, no case. Do not pay attention to apocalyptic saviors, ante-diluvian saviors or caspian saviors. Mr Abascal is not here, but I ask him the same question: when he was charging 83 000 euros for not doing anything at all, did he do it for Spain? did he do it for Spain too? [[Applauds]] And I end with one last recommendation that I had forgotten: the lime has another quality, it's very cheap. Yesterday I bought fifty bags for just one euro, apply it. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u121	Mr Sánchez, I appreciate and appreciate the firm commitment you have expressed with the agreement we have adopted. Indeed, we are convinced that it is a great agreement, a good agreement for Galicia, and I also believe that we are right, especially when we checked yesterday the reaction of the President of the Xunta, Mr Núñez Feijóo, of uncontinuous anger at knowing the text of this agreement because, as I said before, we have been able to unlock the solution to many problems that have been waiting for years and that he, as President of the Xunta, either had no interest or was unable to solve. [[Applauds]] We also agree, therefore, on the need for political change in Galicia as quickly as possible; a change not only of people, not only of parties but also of politics, and that is what the Galego Nationalist Block is working for. We ask you, yes, that in connection with this agreement you be diligent in implementing some measures because they are really urgent, in particular to tackle an industrial crisis that is putting thousands of jobs at risk in our country, a country that is already suffering a new wave of migration, with more than 300,000 people - especially well-trained young people - who have had to leave Galicia in recent years. We want to be able to live with dignity in our country and we want to do so with rights. That is why we have incorporated into the agreement proposals to repeal laws and measures harmful to social interests that have been adopted in recent years. In any case, we confirm our commitment to the implementation of this agreement, which we believe will be positive for Galicia, and also our vote in favour of all that implies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u123	Thank you very much. We have not changed, Mr Sánchez; you knew our conditions. It has not responded to the two basic aspects mentioned above of the agreement with Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, but the interpretation of this agreement will then be heard in the intervention of the Republican Parliamentary Group. With regard to the unity of Spain, I only ask for a minimum sense of state. You have the responsibility, the one that has not had the right-wing parties, neither the People's Party nor Citizens, until now. I ask you a question: do you believe that the unity of Spain is defended by agreements that are just one more step in the disconnection strategy that these independence parties have been developing for a long time? You, as an aspirant, should know the Spanish people and know that this agreement is a humiliation for so many Spaniards and an abandonment for so many Catalan constitutionalists because they expect a government to defend them, which is not currently being done by the Government of the Generalitat. With regard to the commitments to Cantabria, they will be in the hands of the future Government. They are of justice, as I said, and it will be your responsibility or the government's responsibility. And please don't mix us with the right or the right or start repeating that crutch that I'm already beginning to hear because those who know us know that saying this only disqualifies the person who pronounces it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u124	Thank you so much. Mr. Guitarte had already consumed his replica time, which he had previously requested. I therefore now give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. In response to the spokesman for Junts per Catalunya, I would simply like to recall, for the record in the Journal of Sessions, that when the application of Article 155 was discussed in 2017, the Socialist Parliamentary Group held an amendment until early Friday night, criticized by the People's Parliamentary Group and even by some conservative media, to suspend the application of Article 155 if autonomous elections were called by the then President of the Generalitat, Mr Puigdemont. I just want it to be in the Journal of Sessions because it's the whole truth, it's not just a part, it's the whole truth. What is obvious is that we need to talk and a lot. We need to talk about politics. Indeed, we have to abandon the judicial process because, as I said in the first intervention this morning, I believe we owe it to our children. But, as the spokesman for the PRC recalled earlier, when we have the opportunity to speak with the Republican Parliamentary Group, I imagine we will continue to talk about Catalonia. As for More Country, I thank Mrs Sabanes for the tone and again for her affirmative vote. I hope that Mr Errejón will soon recover from the setback he has had. Indeed, Mrs Sabanes, I believe that very regrettable things are happening in Madrid. Listening to the president of an autonomous community like Madrid saying that pollution does not kill is simply embarrassing. That is why I think it is very important something that I have announced in the investiture speech and that has much to do with what you have personally done with central Madrid when governing the left, in order to reduce emissions in certain areas in the big cities from fifty thousand inhabitants. I believe that we share the climate ambition and it is also important to incorporate the element of biodiversity, care or protection of our biodiversity. This is a matter on which I am convinced that we can also agree. Mrs Oramas, I think you should reconsider your position. We all have a commitment to our country. I do not doubt yours and all I ask is that you do not doubt my commitment to Spain. You say that it is an exaggeration to say that with the opposite vote you are actually standing with those political forces that may not want the best for Spain, but that you are also accusing me of some things simply because you share the fact that certain political forces allow the formation of the only possible government after two general electoral processes and five processes in total in 2019. You have seen what the attitude of the People's Party has been, but not only today, but also throughout the entire legislature since the motion of censure; if you have been stifled by the motion of censure, if it is evident that today the People's Party is not prepared to reach any agreement with the Socialist Party. I reached out to the People's Party today to reach agreement. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u126	One moment, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u127	That is why, Your Honor, what I am asking you to do is to reconsider your position, I do not think that we are so far away, I do not think that distances and differences are so insurmountable that you do not keep the door open to a abstention, which is simply to facilitate and respect the will also to some extent of the Spanish people, which has been expressed not once, but five times over the past year and in two electoral processes. With which, what is the alternative? The alternative is to reconvene elections? Going to third elections? What if the People's Party doesn't win what, we go to fourths, fifths, sixths, sevenths? Finally, I believe, Mrs Oramas, that you also have a responsibility, which you have never evaded in your political career. That is why I also appeal to your reason, to your national sentiment and ask you to reflect, we are in time for you to reconsider your position not only in tomorrow's vote, but also in that of next Tuesday. I do not think we can understand and share the path in all the policies that you have put on the table from this rostrum, really, but to implement those policies we will need Government, and that is all I humbly ask of you, to facilitate the formation of Government. I'm not asking for anything else. I understand that for the Canary Coalition it is difficult, it is complicated, and I have also told you in the first of the speeches, but I think that to be relevant in the Congress of Deputies and to defend their land - I understand and know that you love their land - the important thing is that there is government, that goes through the legislature and this does not get stuck. Are we going to start 2020 without government? Are we going to go on like this months, months and months until when, until the system wears out even more? Let this Government go, facilitate the formation of a Government and then ask and demand all responsibilities from that Government. But do so, not by blocking it because it simply leads us to the nonsense that there is no Government and to a Parliament that does not have all the capacity to demand from that Government the responsibilities that you are demanding from this rostrum with all legitimacy and with all reason. I only appeal to that reason, to that commitment and to reconsider that position. [[The lady]] I also thank Mr Quevedo for his support and confidence. To Mr Baldoví the same - if I may, I want to be very brief in the thanks - as well as to Mr Rego. I have talked a lot with the Minister of Industry over these seventeen months and I can assure you that Alcoa has been present in all the conversations, in one way or another she has always been present. And that also has a lot to do with a government that, as I said earlier in my speech, is going to commit itself to the fight against relocation. That means making a fair energy transition and adopting an electro-intensive consumer status, which is necessary in our country. We are already late in the sense that there are many investors who are asking when there will be Government in Spain, when this statute will be approved and when economic resources will be poured back not only in Galicia, but in Asturias, in Cantabria or in the Basque Country. In short, I think there are many things we can do together and I thank you for your heart support. Mr. Mazón, I really don't understand it; you have no arguments, you have excuses. With excuses you can come up here and defend whatever you want, but there are no substantive arguments. You cannot tell the Socialist Party that it is not a party committed to the unity of Spain or with respect for the Constitution. I tell you what I said when I came up to this rostrum at nine this morning: neither will Spain be broken nor will the Constitution be broken. What we have to break between all of us is precisely the blockage to the formation of the only possible government. [[Applauds]] And I tell you one thing, Mr. Mazón, I do not question the legitimacy or credibility that you may have standing in this rostrum as the spokesman for a regionalist party that cantabrian sense and opinion of Catalans who are not independentists in Catalonia, but I just remind you of one thing; after Esquerra Republicana, which is the first political force in Catalonia, the second one knows what it is? The Party of Catalan Socialists. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Candidate. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u129	Good afternoon, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. A previous question, but I consider it important to fight against falsehoods, against fake news. You, Mr Casado, and you, Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, started today your speeches or speeches saying that there was some sort of secret pact between the PSOE and the Republican Left; in fact, you were asking. If they have wifi, if they have data, it's on the Republican Left website; in fact, it's on the web of a lot of media. [[Rumors]] I've got it here, if you want, I'll give it to you. [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Lélo]] I'd better give it to you when the surgery's over. [[Rumors]] Calm down. It's clear that going to paid schools doesn't make you more polite. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] The only secret here, Mr. Married, the only secret pact is what you did last night at the Central Electoral Board. [[Applauds]] As you know, the Central Electoral Board yesterday disabled President Quim Torra and MEP Oriol Junqueras. That an administrative body with no specific competence on the subject and outside the electoral period be extra bounded in this way by pretending to disable and dismiss the President of the Generalitat and a MEP fully recognized by the highest European court of justice is not only a savage, but it is a coup d'état de libre, here in Spain, and there, in Catalonia, of those forever and for ever. [[applause]] Everyone knows - you don't have to be very spooked - who and what's behind what happened yesterday afternoon. It was his last bullet. Tried, okay, in fact they even announced it earlier on Twitter. First beat-up, pretty clumsy. We here today, the Democrats, regardless of the flag we have, tell them that in the face of attacks on democracy, more democracy and that eighty-nine years of history do not fall as well. [[Applauds]] Be clear, be very clear that we will fight and defend until we can no longer - until we can no longer - the political rights of President Quim Torra and our President Oriol Junqueras; and believe me that we can a lot, we have a lot of endurance. What happened yesterday was the state that was fagotiated by the extreme right and the extreme right, according to which State institutions against the Government. Since last night I've been trying to find a way to explain what you did - in fact, what you've been doing for a long time - and I couldn't find anything until I remembered a story from a Basque fabulousist, Felix Maria de Samaniego, who along with Berlanga would be delighted to meet some of you. It's a story written nearly 240 years ago, the story of the cat and the mice. It was once 'ratonland', a country with a lot of mice that were born, grown, lived and, above all, died; they died because of a cat, a cat very well cared for and very well fed by their masters, but that in spite of that attacked, harassed and constantly threatened mice. One day, the mice decided to meet in assembly and dialogue, to discuss, those rare things that are done in democracy. In the end, one of them devised a solution: to put a rattlesnake on the cat so as to have it controlled, to hear it and to stop harassing them, attacking them and hunting them. The problem came when none of the mice dared to put the rattlesnake on the cat. Gentlemen of the PP, gentlemen of Citizens, gentlemen of VOX, these mice have dared to put the rattlesnake on the cat. You are the cat, we are the mice and this agreement is the rattlesnake that will control you. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] The only question is who their masters are, who feed and care for them. To be understood; they are not going to fall eighty-nine years of unequivocally anti-fascist history. They didn't make it professionals in the matter - they didn't make it professionals in the matter -; now they're not going to make compromises like you. [[Applauds]] A few words forced and ex-professor of someone who is not here today, but who should be like the most: We are Republicans, we are independentists, we are Catalans, but above all and above all we are democrats and as such never, either by active or passive, we will favor a government of the extreme right and of an increasingly extreme right. We must always be willing to dialogue, always, with everyone and everything, regardless of whether we and we are in prison or not. Not doing so would be betraying ourselves. We do not ask anyone to stop defending what he defends; no one to ask us to stop defending what we defend: the independence of our country. Let's talk. Oriol Junqueras and Vies, cell 47, Lledoners. [[Applauds]] I keep reading: This political problem is not solved by hiding behind courts and robes. There is a political problem that we need to solve. Mr. Sánchez, good afternoon, this was you at the beginning of 2018. I continue: 'If we talk about the territorial crisis resulting from the sovereignist pulse, we consider the problem of Catalonia to be a problem of coexistence, not of independence'. This was you in mid-2019. I continue, referring to Puigdemont: 'I commit myself here and now to bring him in and be judged by Spanish justice. The D.A.'s office, who depends on...? Well, that's it. This is you just two months ago. I continue: 'This is a political conflict that must be returned to the political in order to avoid the judicialization of politics. Feelings are neither imposed nor pursued, let us resume dialogue.' And this is you today. What do you think happened? What do you think happened? [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u131	What do you think has happened so that the candidate for the Presidency of the Government goes from saying one thing to, then another, even boasting in the election campaign in the first time of the Spanish public television to be able to use the Prosecutor's Office at his will, to end today talking about politics and dialogue? What's causing so much bandage? I'm telling you, these people. [[Pointing to the bench on the right.-Several Members: Ohhh!]] The fear of these people, the complicity of these people. Every time a progressive has been silent in the face of threats or right-wing insults, a right has been lost, a right has been lost. [[Applauds]] We have a right winged, in fact... [[Protests]] They're giving me reason, they just don't even realize it. I refer to the facts. To you, Mr. Sánchez, some guru in the demoscopy told him that using Catalonia as a bold electoral weapon would win the elections, it's all right. It's okay. [[Rumors]] Calm down, we're almost done. It's okay, don't snoop, it's not something new. It has happened to virtually all the presidents of this country, but in your case, Mr Sánchez, you forgot something crucial: that there has never been any socialist president who has arrived in Moncloa without Catalonia, let alone against Catalonia. The campaign that you did insulting and criminalizing the Catalan public school, insulting and criminalizing the Catalan public media, insulting and criminalizing more than two million people who voted heroically on October 1st was of enormous myopia and irresponsibility. Only or almost to the height of the enormous myopia and irresponsibility that you have committed as much as We can provoke the elections of November 10, the fourth in four years and the second in a year. But this, Mr. Sánchez, I assure you that you will not review and focus even more on the past. He's not going to review and focus on his hemeroteca, we all have hemeroteca. The bad news is that you said that and surely at the time you believed it, the good news is that we are politicians and politicians. Here there are no unremovable dogmas of faith, we are not priests, we are not priests, politics is mobile. We have an obligation to properly interpret reality every time in order to try to provide solutions. There are no churches here, there are political parties and I, at least, have long since come to the conclusion that I prefer bad hemerotecs to no longer be useful. So welcome to dialogue, welcome to politics, Mr Sánchez. We said September made life more difficult for all of us, and go if he did. We said maybe there wouldn't even be September, and there wasn't. We said autumn would be a bad time to do politics, and it was a very bad time, almost as bad as now. And we said that the personal threads and phobias that you might have were letting go of a historic opportunity and that you would regret it, and I think you do. What's changed? Some have blamed us for some delay in this agreement; I don't know where they've been all these months because it's changed everything. One sentence: almost 100 years in prison for nine Democrats for a referendum, nine comrades. In fact, VOX asked our leader and president Oriol Junqueras 75 years in jail for voting. [[Rumors]] People's Party and Citizens asked for 25 years, and you, through the State's Attorney General, came to applaud in some cases 13 years in prison. That is the recipe of some of the parliamentary groups that are here today: that more than 2 million people cease to exist, that we stop being who we are, that we stop thinking as we think and that we stop voting as we vote. [[Applauds]] We don't ask anyone, not even fascism, to stop being who he is. We do not ask anyone to stop being who he is, we do not ask anyone to stop voting for what he votes; we simply ask the same for us. Neither are we going to disappear, nor are many people in Catalonia, of course, either. We like it more or we like it less, we are obliged to dialogue; we are obliged to do politics, we like it more or we like it less. Republican Left of Catalonia - and the truth is that in that we are quite boring - has been presented to two generals and has won two generals with a very clear message and speech: dialogue, dialogue and dialogue. And whoever says otherwise, who says he's surprised now, or doesn't know us, or doesn't listen to us, or lies directly. Nor can a republic be implemented with 50% of the population against it, nor can autonomy be imposed with 50% of the population against it. What we say here today, what we present here today is an electoral commitment of Republican Left. We said that we would sit the Government of Spain at a dialogue table and that is what we have done. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Here, then, is the agreement for a dialogue and negotiation table between the Government of the Generalitat and the Government of Spain; an agreement that is not born of naivety or candidity, is born of necessity. We, lords of the PSOE, have no mania, we have memory for you, because no one forgets - and I do not say it with joy - that this monster has on some occasion also fed you. [[pointing to the bench on the right.-Protests]] We warned them on many occasions that one day I would also come to devour them. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u133	But what didn't unite affection has joined terror. [[A honourable Member: It is a shame.- Rumours]] Much has been written and more will be written about this agreement, but it is no more or less an instrument created by two working teams of the two winning parties of the elections in Catalonia and Spain, Esquerra Republicana and the PSOE, in the service of dialogue, in the service of politics; in the case of Esquerra Republicana, in the service of our country, in the service of Catalonia. This will not be in any case, whatever happens, the victory or failure of a party, much less the Republican Left; this will be the victory or failure, whatever happens, of a country. Esquerra Republicana puts at the service of Catalonia and politics the strength of its thirteen deputies in the investiture for the creation of a solution, because Esquerra Republicana is not the problem, it is not even part of the problem, Esquerra Republicana is the solution. [[Rumors]] It is a party at the service of a country and not a country at the service of a party. [[Applauds]] Government to Government, with four pillars, with four clear bases that bind the feeling, that bind the consensus of up to 80% of the population of Catalonia, and there, by force, there are its voters: of the PP, of Citizens and even, why not say, of VOX; they are lentils. One - first base - between equals: mutual recognition and mutual institutional respect, judicialization and activation of the political path. Two, without veto: we talk about everything and with everyone; we have been defending Catalonia's self-determination for eighty-nine years, we do not fool anyone and we will be delighted to hear your proposals. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u135	We go for self-determination and amnesty. Three, calendar: monitoring, via public calendar and clear; let everyone know when the next meeting is. [[Protests]] Four guarantees: the agreement reached between the parties will be consulted and endorsed by the people of Catalonia. [[Protests]] I love it. Whatever this is will depend on each one's bargaining strength and ability. [[Protests]] Madam President, I was thrown out for much less. [[Laughter and applause]] From here you can hear everything. And, to the question of the million of how we do it, how we do it, how we do it, I will try to be very clear and, of course, with great respect for everyone, including, of course, We can, a member of this coalition of government and I hope to help us in this work; I will try to be very clear: if there is no table, there is no legislature. [[Several Members: Ahhh!]] [[Several Members: Ahhh!]] If there's no table, there's no legislature.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. I do not want to be constantly interrupting the speaker to ask for something obvious, and it is that we must respect and listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u137	You're a little bit away from proclaiming Pablo Casado as legitimate president of Spain and Venezuela, huh? Calm down. I repeat: if there is no table, there is no legislature. Esquerra Republicana has already done so before - only to be remembered - in defense of the civil, social and national rights of the people of Catalonia, and can do so again. If this time the people of Catalonia are again scammed, if this table is not fulfilled, if this agreement is not fulfilled, they will not be scamming a party, they will not be scamming the Republican Left, they will be scamming a people. Again, one more time. Finally, and as part of the agreement, I would also like to announce to you that we are committed to creating follow-up committees for the Republican Left-PSOE in order to articulate a legislative package for the recovery of civil, social and labour rights lost during these years, many of them by these patriots here. In this country there are many people who are waiting to see what is happening with this political conflict that is now returning to politics, but there are also many people who are waiting to know what will happen with the repeal of the Law gag - there we will be?, of labor reforms - there we will be -, with the dignity of historical memory - there we will be -, of pensions - there we will be -, with equality between men and women - there we will be -, with the environment and renewable energies - there we will be -, or with the abusive price of their rents or of the receipt of light. We will be there and we will be committed to it. [[Applauds]] Because what good is a homeland, patriots, what good is a flag if it mistreats its people? The drama is that in this country, in Spain, a boy of twenty-eight years old, for example, spends 90% of his salary on paying his house. That's real Spain and not the four wrists that each one of them wears on his wrist. [[Applauds.-Protests]] This is what there is and there is no more than it is, but neither is it less; it is no more than it is, but neither is it less. This is far better than what we have, but not much less is all we want. What's the worst or what's the best? That we will not be worse than where we come from, threatened by an asilwed right and sometimes abandoned by a cowardly progressionism. [[protests]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is one in the meantime, between today and tomorrow; one in the meantime between wishes and their reality. There is a while that is the vigil of our dreams and that meanwhile needs guides, managers and leaders and we are not only born to fight and make our dreams come true. We too were born to guide, to manage and to lead their watchdogs. We want to manage and lead that in the meantime, that day-to-day because if we don't, we'll get someone else against us. Long live Andalucia free! Gora Euskal Herria askatuta! Long live Galicia ceive! Watch the Catalan countries! Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u138	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u139	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Answer him alive Spain!]] I wanted to start, Mr Rufián, by making an explicit thank you, because I have logically followed very live the negotiations of the negotiating team that has led the extraordinary spokesman we have in the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I wanted to thank you and that is in the Journal of Sessions both Mrs Vilalta and Mr Jové and yourself for having achieved, together with José Luis Ábalos, Salvador Illa, secretary of organization of the PSC, and also Adriana Lastra, this important agreement that effectively allows to unlock the situation and achieve the formation of Government in our country. There's something I disagree with you about. You've been talking about the hemeroteca. We have had the opportunity to talk on many occasions about Catalonia in the gallery and we will continue to do so over the next few years, I am convinced. By the way, do not worry because the committee is going to be set up and, therefore, we will not have, at least on this side, that problem. I have heard your government partners in the Generalitat have some doubts about the integration and incorporation into that committee, but in any case, it is going to exist on our part. We take that step, I think it is important, I think it is necessary and, as you indicated earlier, it is our obligation; our obligation is to make policy. I've always talked about political conflict in Catalonia, always. I have also talked about the crisis of coexistence in Catalonia and I do not think they are incompatible. I understand that this is not the diagnosis you make of the situation in Catalonia and the territorial dispute, but, look, in that CEO to whom Mrs Borràs referred earlier, she wondered whether the consequences of the Catalan process had damaged coexistence and 51% of Catalans acknowledged that yes and 41% also acknowledged in that same survey that they had stopped talking to family members and also with friends about politics. It must be acknowledged that some of that actually exists and you have implicitly acknowledged it when, for example, you have created a dialogue table between different parliamentary forces in the Parliament of Catalonia, which we would also like to see logically have its course and development. It is a proposal put on the table by the Socialist Party of Catalonia, which you also supported, which I am grateful for, and I certainly believe that it is also necessary to have this open dialogue between the various Catalan political forces. [[Rumors]] Does that mean, Your Honor, that there is no political conflict? It is obvious that there is a political conflict, if not, what are we talking about here? What have we been talking about for ten years, if it is not precisely the political conflict, the relationship and the accommodation of the Catalan reality in a State such as the plural State representing Spain? Indeed, I think that we are going there from very different diagnoses, clearly different. You consider that the problem is that the Spanish State does not recognize the right of self-determination. We believe that self-determination is not only not constitutional, but is not protected by international law. I know that you say that you do, I listen to you, I read you and therefore I understand or, rather, I know your positions. However, there are not only the legal causes that can justify our opposition and our rejection of the right of self-determination that you defend, there are also some issues that have more to do with politics, with social matters, and this is something you have commented on before. Indeed, a republic cannot be built - by using its terms - with 50% of the population supporting it and with the other 50% against it. Therefore, we have a different and inconsistent diagnosis. But, look, now that the clothes are torn by some Conservative Members and Members of Parliament, I am here in the gallery before the April 28 elections - I am not talking about before the November 10 elections, Mr Rufián, since you have witnessed this because you belonged to the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left - when I was spokesman Mr Tardà I argued that the only solution I saw to settle the dispute in Catalonia was precisely a vote. I have always defended it and I have defended it because I said, as I say today, that one of the main problems that the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia has now of legitimacy is precisely that it was not the one voted by the Catalans before being modified in the General Courts and also modified by a ruling of the Constitutional Court as a result of an appeal submitted by the People's Party. Look at what Mr Casado said today, that even if he doesn't know anything, whatever it is, he will file an appeal in the Constitutional Court against it. That is the anti-politics that we certainly do not defend, because with loyalty and institutional responsibility we will face this litigation. [[protests]] I say one thing to you, Mr Rufián - I do not know if I have said it before, but I say it now that I have been President of the Government and in office for a few months, just over a year and a half and, indeed, as co-responsible because I was the leader of the opposition and I supported the then President of the Government in very traumatic circumstances -: everything that is happening right now in Catalonia feels like a political failure, because it is a political failure. The lack of decisions that are being taken today in the judiciary represents nothing but a political failure. A political failure that belongs exclusively to national parties? Yes and no, it depends on parties at the national level, but it also depends on parties at the Catalan level. In that regard, I believe that we all need to make an amendment. It is therefore important to start over, to see where emotions replaced the reasons, to see where emotions replaced the arguments and to see where we can all find a point of balance, of meeting, which allows us to re-cohesion Catalan society and if we do not definitely resolve it, because we probably cannot solve it definitively, if we find a balance that the next generations thank the political representatives who are present in this House. Of course, I assume that grave responsibility. Furthermore, I understand that I have many limitations, among other things, because I am not going to have a loyal opposition, as if the People's Party government had with the Socialist Party, but that, Your Honor, is the misfortune we have in Spain. [[Protests.-Applause.]] What am I going to tell him! Not only do you suffer to the right and to the right, we also suffer from the left of the Spanish sphere. I'm also going to tell you something else, and it's a reflection I throw into the air. Having listened to Mr Casado's speeches, having listened to Mr Abascal's speeches, having read the demoscopic polls, given also the electoral reality that has made Mr Abascal and the ultra-right today have 52 seats, and having heard also what the feeling of the voters of the People's Party is, I hope - I do not lose my hope - that the People's Party understands that its existence is at risk as a centre-right political party and we hope that it will put a health cord not on people, but on the retrograde and reactionary ideas represented by the ultra-right party. [[Protests.-Applause.]] We have experienced very traumatic and dramatic situations, Mr. Rufián. I have been at the head of the Spanish Government for sixteen months, a few in office, and it is true that we have experienced a motion of censure, but we have also experienced a judgment in October which, among other issues, had a reply of social response in Catalonia, firstly, inevitable, but which, secondly, became a public order crisis to which I had to remedy. [[Rumors]] There I have to acknowledge the extraordinary work and cooperation that we have had between the National Police, the Civil Guard and the Mossos d'Esquadra. I understand the difficult situation your party experienced then, but I also tell you that you were brave, because you were the first in the independence sphere to criticize and reject the use of violence - in that case a legitimate answer, because we are in a democratic state - in response to a sentence that you did not share. Obviously, I take the situation in Catalonia as a political failure. Many leaders of the People's Party and the far right criticize me and say: Mr Sánchez is negotiating his investiture - they say it in very hyperbolic terms - with a prisoner, Oriol Junqueras, who is in prison. Probably unintentionally, Mr. Rufián, what you're saying is a very obvious thing, it's an obvious thing. This is the consequence of everything, this is the situation we are living in, the situation of seeing how the judicial drift in the end has made it impossible to make politics or that politics in the end goes behind judicial events. [[Rumors]] In that regard, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is important to return the political conflict to politics. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the social agenda is concerned, I will not have any problems either. And with regard to the territorial agenda, of course we start from very different positions; we have very different diagnoses about the origin of the political crisis in Catalonia, but I understand - that is what I appreciate, at least, in the party you represent here today from your bench - the willingness to dialogue, to overcome the conflict and to try to achieve a point of meeting and balance that is positive for both Catalonia and Spain. The challenge is worth it and we will, of course, go to that Bureau and to this Congress of Deputies with the best of spirits. It will be very difficult, we will need time, but I assure you that our will is firm and honest and that not only the Socialist Party, but also a large majority of Spanish citizens want to resolve this territorial dispute once and for all. [[rumors]] Let us hope that this is the case and, if we fail to do so in this legislature, let us at least leave behind a political crisis so that our children, their children and my daughters can find a Catalonia and a Spain united in their diversity. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u140	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u141	Mr Sánchez, I also thank you, of course, for the tone. I have commented this morning: the music that has been coming from the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party for a few days, a few weeks and even a few months sounds good, is different. It is also worth remembering - I say it without acridity, it is not a reproach - that it is part of a context of certain weakness and - why not say it, and we do it with humility but also with firmness - of the victory of Catalan republicanism in Catalonia, which I believe has helped you to change or can change in a certain way. I'm not gonna make that joke about what PSOE we'll see, whether Lastra's or Borrell's, because I think it's clear what PSOE is facing. And I repeat that I say it without credence. I want to be very clear about this too. There is no idea either in life or in politics, I repeat, there is no idea, no ideology either in life or in politics, nor the unity of Spain or the independence or self-determination of Catalonia, which is worth doing by violent means. It does not represent any violent path. [[Applauds]] It does not represent any violent path, there is nothing in life that justifies it. And with this, of course, I am not referring to our young people, to our boys and girls who fought and fought like so many others in the past for their civil, social and labour rights in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] However, Mr Sánchez, we will repeat it 155 times: the only violence so far unequivocally observed and never condemned is that of 1 October. [[Applauds]] There are a lot of things, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, to talk about, a lot, and in fifteen days, only in fifteen days since this government complies, we will talk about. The first is that I would love to hear from someone who self-qualifies himself from the left and who represents a party that has glorious acronyms, with a great deal of history, saying that it is voting and that politics causes a crisis of coexistence. We will never accept it, because it is that - and I do not mean so much to you now - of not getting involved in politics because it divides, that said one Francisco Franco Bahamonde. [[Applauds]] I believe it is a great news that the people of Catalonia, that everyone is ultimately politicized. What divides, what generates a crisis of coexistence, is not an urn, it is an eviction, and we will never tire of saying it. In conclusion, I agree that blocks must be broken. I believe that in order to reach our ends, which are clearly antagonistic - yours and ours -, to transcend our acronyms, our numbers, our vows, we must break blocks. We believe that this is a start and we obviously believe that we have attracted someone from the other block to our side, but I think it is the only way. The no to everything, the evil called not to everything, the worst, the better - I said it six months ago and I repeat -, that I believe he is heir to that evil slogan, the worst slogan in the history of the slogans, that of Spain steals from us, it is harmful and it is fallacious. Not everything, the worse, the better, Spain steals from us, they are a lie and they serve absolutely nothing. Because, I repeat - and I will not tire of saying it - I am not robbed of a lady from Malasaña or Lavapiés who is claiming the same pension as my grandmother from Singuerlin; she stole from me and I am robbed of Rat, Bárcenas, Pujol and Millet. And those don't matter what flag they have. [[Applause.-An honourable Member: I too!-Various ladies and gentlemen: And the EREs! ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ERE, ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u143	If it pisses them off, it's good. [[Laughter and applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u144	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u145	If you will allow me, Madam President, Mr Rufián, I will answer from the seat simply to ratify me at the extremes of the commitment that we have achieved two political forces with quite a history behind our backs Republican Left has their longevity; the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party also has their longevity. [[Rumors]] We have both suffered many things throughout this history: exile, repression, dictatorship, the extermination of many people who defended the republican cause in Catalonia and also the socialist cause throughout the country, and I believe that we also have a huge responsibility as historical political forces towards our societies. I liked to hear you say - I am very comforted - of your mouth that violence is rejected. I had no doubt about it, because precisely during the month of October I heard the secretary-general of his party, Mr Pere Aragonès, completely demarcating himself from the violence. I am truly grateful that we propose to transcend the blocs, because feelings are not really imposed. I am not going to impose on you the feeling of being Spanish or you are going to impose on me the feeling of Catalan independence, but I think that between us we can achieve a change of perceptions, both of you and of us, and to that we are called, at least, to start walking in this legislature. For us, Mr. Rufián, it won't be. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u146	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u147	I will speak very briefly. Mr Sánchez, a hue: it's not so much about imposing on one or the other to talk about identities, because, in the end, what is identity? Feeling Catalan, feeling Spanish, feeling like Timbuktu, what is it? For example, I don't give up Machado, I don't give up Cervantes, I don't give up Rosalía, I don't give up Alejandro Sanz, I don't give up a lot of things that are part of my culture. [[Rumors]] But the good news - or the bad news, according to who - is that I am no exception. These people, when they talk to me about Pujol, about 3 percent and so on... If Pujol was more his than ours: he was Spanish of the year, first he agreed with Felipe and then with Aznar. In short, let's talk and talk, because what we have in front of us is this. And welcome again to the path of dialogue. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u148	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. candidate, today is unfortunately a historic day; it is a historic day and we have known it since Mr. Sánchez' first sentence. How will the damage that has been done to this country by the candidate who has had to start his intervention saying that Spain is not going to break! Moreover, what harm has he done to the social democracy in Spain that has had to explain that the Socialist Party is a Spanish party! It will certainly be a historic day for the humiliation that Mr Rufián has just shed while Mr Sánchez has come out to thank him for his support without rebutting any of the things he has said about Spain. [[Applauds]] Historical. This historic day and this infamous agreement were not written. It is not true that the Spaniards said in the ballot box that this was the agreement that had to be approved. That's not true. How can Mr Sánchez say that this is what the Spaniards voted for if he presented himself to the elections, promising just the opposite of what he presented to this House today? How can you have so much defachation, Mr. Sánchez? [[Applauds]] You change your mind a lot or perhaps you have very little memory, but the Spaniards have much more coherence and more memory than you have shown. You ran for election saying you couldn't make a coalition government with Podemos because you wouldn't let 95% of the Spaniards sleep. You said that with independence never, ever, and that you were going to ban illegal referendums in Catalonia and criminalize them, and today we have a written agreement that there will be a consultation only in Catalonia. You have not been voted by anyone in this country to commit the infamy you intend to commit, while the one hundred and twenty Socialist Members are silent and grant. What a shame, ladies and gentlemen, to have seen you quiet before what Mr. Rufián of Spain said! What a shame, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applauds]] Today is going to be a historic day, unfortunately; historic because candidate Sánchez himself today would vote that not to his own investiture if he was consistent with what he said just a few weeks ago. What I wouldn't be surprised about, Mr. Sánchez, is that you filed a motion of censure against yourself when you change the idea again in a few months' time. But today could have been a historic day in the opposite direction, today could have made, for the first time in the history of Spanish democracy, a constitutionalist agreement. Today, for the first time, the Social Democratic Party could have stopped negotiating with nationalism and could have made an agreement reaching out to the constitutionalists. This, which is most reasonable, seems most unlikely, because it is true that the PP and the PSOE have very bad habits in democracy. Look, in Europe we have just done what Citizens proposed since the first day after the elections, a great constitutional agreement where Social Democrats, Liberals and Conservatives in Brussels have agreed to make a historic pact that leaves aside nationalism and populism, because in Europe the Social Democrats are very clear that nationalism is confrontation, it is regression, it is rupture and it is an exclusive identity over rights and freedoms, but the Social Democrats are also clear that that is what populism represents. However, in Brussels they have nothing, and it is that in Spain we have Mr Pedro Sánchez and in Brussels the Social Democrats think of the Europeanists and the European project. This alternative path that Sánchez despises, that Sánchez treats with so much humiliation, so different from how he treats Mr Rufián or the accused Member, Mrs Borràs, would be the only alternative for Spain, is the only way to give stability. Ladies and gentlemen, have you heard all the speeches of the nationalists? Have you read Mr. Pedro Sánchez's assignments? For this is only for the investiture; from now on the nationalists will go through the box whenever the government wants to approve something. And I say well: to go through the box, because PNV, etc., do not give the good days without passing through the box and without charging. Well, this constitutionalist agreement has not only been proposed by us, it has not only been proposed by citizens, but there are many and of course illustrious socialists who have said in one way or another that we must opt for a similar agreement. I suppose Mr Sánchez will find Mr Redondo Terreros, Mr Leguina, Mr Paco Vázquez, César Antonio Molina, Mr Ibarra or Mr Alfonso Guerra to be fair. I guess Mr. Sanchez has a very long list of slingshots and slingshots. But the truth is that today we have heard very party speeches and very little of the future. We need to overcome this stage of bipartisanship by always agreeing with the nationalists, always agreeing with those who want to stop being Spanish. It is true that we have never seen a humiliation and infamy like the one we are seeing with Mr Sánchez, but we have come here because we have given up working for what unites us with those who do want to be Spanish and do want the best for our country. We need to talk about education, because the parents in Spain, Mr Sánchez, are much more concerned about the educational quality of their children than their ideological counter-reform that they want to impose with the Lords of Podemos. The Spanish, Mr Sánchez, care a lot more about having a future labour market, thinking about employment, the quality of employment, than not going back to Mr Zapatero's failed model. The Spanish, Mr Sánchez, care a lot more than you say how you intend to guarantee pensions and talk about how to help families increase their birth rate than to talk about the territorial privileges they grant to the PNV. When we talk about university competitiveness, what are we going to have, a government with a vice president who was dedicated to squandering at the university? Is that the gentleman who's going to guarantee university quality, the one who uses to crush people who don't think like him? Do you like it? Is that what we're going to have in Spain? [[Applauds]] We need to take on great challenges, such as regaining Spain's leadership in Europe. Who's going to do it, a gentleman who for defending Junqueras by four votes is attacking the judges of the Central Electoral Board right now? Are you going to defend the good name of Spanish democracy? [[Applauds]] We need a public administration without excessive bureaucracy, without plugs, without bars that only serve political parties. Who's gonna do it, the party that doesn't even want to talk about EREs? Today, the candidate spoke more about Franco than about the EREs that affect his party. Is that what we're going to have in Spain? [[Applauds]] We need to fight corruption in this country, which is a real scourge, a disadvantage for our economy as well. Who is going to do it, the gentleman who has hidden himself for weeks from the journalists in order not to have to give explanations or the gentleman who did not want to say a word of PNV corruption because they are his preferred partners? We have in our environment in Europe other countries that are taking on these challenges of the future - innovation, economic competitiveness, birth, pensions - and here we are waiting for the graces of Rufián, Mr Sánchez. And that only depends on you, because you today had other alternatives, but you never want other alternatives that do not depend on nationalism and separatism. There are two ways of being in the opposition today, ladies and gentlemen: one is by rubbing your hands and celebrating how badly these gentlemen are going to do and preparing to collect the rubble afterwards and the other is to try until the last moment that Spain is not reduced to rubble by this populist and nationalist government. [[Applauds]] There are two ways to be. I will admit that it has not been easy for me to ask for a meeting and to offer you a pact so that you may be president so that you do not have Mr. Churches as vice president and depending on the nationalists I assure you that it has not been easy at all. But it is that his proposal generates so much uneasiness and so much fear that we had a moral obligation to try to find a way out. Because, you know what, Mr. Sanchez? You do not come today as a new candidate, you do not come today to promise things that you will do in your government, you come today as a gentleman who has already ruled. The autonomous of this country already know what happens to them when you rule. Pensioners in this country have already seen how you have used them for blackmail by telling them that they are not going to collect or will not raise the pension if we do not have Pedro Sánchez invested. You don't come as a new candidate. We know how he handles it. That's why today is a historic day, but not a historic day for good, with that constitutionalist agreement that we could have made, which undoubtedly overcomes the blockade, which guarantees the stability of the legislature, not just the investiture, which is what you are thinking about. You think so in the short term, Mr. Sánchez, that you're thinking about Tuesday, about your investiture. You have no idea how you're going to pass the laws. Everything the PNV has taken from him, everything the BNG has taken from him, everything Esquerra has taken from him is only for his investiture. Prepare the Spaniards with what will remain of Spain after a legislature of Pedro Sánchez having to sell whatever it is to get the laws out in this Chamber. Today is a historic day, no doubt, because the agreement with Podemos, which took place in forty-eight hours, after denying Mr Sánchez as active and passive that he wanted to make an agreement with them, was symbolic, because it was the embrace of two defeated pugiles who hugged each other so as not to fall. [[The minister of finance in office, Montero Quadrado: Man!, defeated...]] Yes, they lost a 'chorron' of votes between the two. [[Laughs.-A honourable Member: What about you?]] Yes, we do, too, but you too, yes. And we don't intend to rule, you do. [[Applauds]] You've done as always, Mr. Sanchez. You haven't defended some principles because you don't. Now we will remember his masterly phrases, which may hurt his own sensibility. You're not here to defend a project for Spain, because you don't. You're here to defend a chair and, saddest of all, you're here to defend a mattress in Moncloa. But you can't be president at all, Mr. Sanchez. You cannot humiliate and laugh at the constitutionalists and then come out like a lamb, after the humiliation of Rufián, so that the partners do not get angry. It's not worthy. It is not worthy of Spain, it is not worthy of the Socialist Party, and, look what I tell you, it is almost not worthy of you; it is almost not worthy of you. But I'm going to tell you why we're going to vote no to this deal with Podemos. The truth is, it's going to be very easy for me. I had never had such an easy investment debate, because I just have to use phrases from the candidate himself to disassemble the agreement that the candidate himself presents. Beware that some of your sentences, Mr. Sánchez, can hurt your own sensibility! Mr Sánchez said: I could now be president of the government, of a coalition government, but I would be a president of the government who would not sleep at night, along with 95% of the citizens of this country, who would not feel at ease either. That day you were on a very heavy lash; you were on a very hard lash. [[Applauds]] Another day; we have a day when Mr Sánchez said: Spain does not deserve what Podemos is proposing, with Churches as vice president and with the direct or indirect support of the independenceists. That day you were very right, but very right, and, as Rajoy would say, very right. You have another glorious day, too, he said: neither before nor after nor during will the PSOE agree with the populism of Podemos. And another who said: The end of populism is Chávez's Venezuela. You were ultra-right that day, but come on, that VOX was short. Then you have another phrase that I think is the favorite of everything Mr Sánchez has said, let's see if he has said things: Do you imagine, friends, this crisis in Catalonia with half of the government defending the Constitution and the other half of the government with Podemos inside, saying that there are political prisoners in Catalonia and defending the right of self-determination in Catalonia? Where would Spain be and where would the left be? I don't know if it was you or your person who said that phrase that day, but, of course, doesn't it embarrass you to show up for an investiture and call those who are going to vote no, precisely to this? Was it you that day? [[applause]] Were you from the far right? Were you a grueling blocker of the Spanish agreements, or did you just have a good day but it happened to you soon and we've had Pedro Sánchez back forever? Look, the Spaniards have memories, the Spaniards have coherence and the Spaniards who today are uneasy with their agreement is not that they are fair, it is that they believe in Spanish democracy and know that you are a danger to our country. Furthermore, Mr Garzón said earlier that we had not talked about the content of the insomnia agreement; yes, we will, of course. The measures that include the agreement with Podemos, as it cannot be otherwise, are harmful to the Spanish economy. Because, of course, how did it not occur to us before, to solve the problems of Spain, to put communist ministers in this country? How could we not have thought of that? How could we not have thought of that? How could it not have occurred to us, ladies and gentlemen, that none of us, until we have arrived, that we could, in order to save this country's precariousness and unemployment, return to Zapatero's work model? How could it not have occurred to us, Members of Parliament? [[Applauds]] Look, not only do we say that these measures are not good for the economy; those that Mr Sánchez has been able to implement in these months of his government have already had a detrimental impact on the economy. You said today that unemployment was good or that the economic data were positive. Look, the unemployment data are generating very worrying job creation data that bring us back to 2013, at least; they are very bad data for the self-employed and SMEs in this country. In fact, the representatives of the autonomous and SMEs in this country have already warned of the danger of the measures being taken by the government of Podemos and the Socialist Party. Are all autonomous Spaniards also fachas? Are the SMEs that generate employment in this country too? The measures you include in this agreement have already been laid down in the budget that you sent to Europe, and you told them that they did not fit, that income was inflated, that you did not believe it in Europe, Mr Sánchez. You're not just used to lying to the Spaniards. In Europe they have already taken the measure and that is why they said no to the budget, which did not fit, and not to the lies inflating revenues. There are also other problems in this government agreement, of course: politicizing justice even more. We have some gentlemen who want to control justice more; that is, to control it, to attack the judges. By the way, your party is dedicated to attacking the judges of the Supreme who are appointed within the Central Electoral Board and you do not go out to defend them. You are attacking the judges and defending those who give a coup d'état in Catalonia. Do you really think it's worth all this to get back to Moncloa, Mr. Sánchez? Or, of course, a very interesting thing, which I think has not been commented on today, which is that they charge the public contest of Spanish Television. Man, please, you're gonna lose the little Spanish TV toy! And today, when you said you were going to put in place a plan to combat fake news, it was like listening to Herod talking about child protection. [[Laughter and applause]] You fighting fake news and controlling the quality of the media! We will vote that not this government too because we are seeing how you treat the media and how you treat the press. Because, honestly, presenting a government agreement by literally throwing journalists in the room where they present it is an indecency and, of course, we know where populists' course goes when they get inside the government. Look, we will vote that not also because we are very concerned about what they have included in the education agreement, an ideological counter-reform that does not seek the educational quality, that seeks again to use education as a means of channelling its ideology. I want to defend here all the families of the children who go to concert school and the families of the children who go to special education schools, who today are very concerned about the government of Podemos and the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] We will also continue to be his voice in the Congress of Deputies. Not to mention many unforgivable oblivions, such as the military or prison officials. But what to expect from a government that has used pensioners to say that if there was no government of its own, as they wanted, pensions would not be raised? What about a government that has used the State Attorney's Office to win a few votes in an investiture? Use the State Attorney's Office to make it the Junqueras' attorney's office. Look, the problem is not only that they depend on Esquerra, the problem they have inside, within the government itself, as you well said, Mr Sánchez. As you well said in those days of clarity, for you would be days of fascism - I suppose - in those days of clarity that said that with Podemos within the government you could not sleep peacefully. Moreover, it is a weak Government. Mr. Sanchez, you seem to be selling here a 190- or 200-seat deal. The agreement of Podemos and the Socialist Party has 155 seats, they do not depend only - which of course will not depend on them - on the ten seats of Citizens, it is that they would depend on many more, it is that of every decision that you bring to Congress, of every decision the PNV, the BNG, the Esquerra or all nationalists that you can find in this Chamber - which, certainly, are more and more - you will take away and you will not think about the challenges of the future. Do you really believe that when the PNV or the BNG or Esquerra demand something from you, they will think of the infrastructures of Extremadura or they will think of the autonomouss of Andalusia or Castilla-La Mancha or they will think of an educational system that depoliticizes and removes the indoctrination of the classrooms? They're just gonna think about their nationalist agenda. Mr. Sanchez, you just have to see the deal with the PNV. You say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And I have to support the agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party? An agreement that says in text that the structures of the State must be adapted to the territorial identities of Catalonia and the Basque Country, of course the identities they say. Because, of course, here the nationalist homogenization of identities we already know it. Does that look like anyone in the progressive socialist bench? Adapting the structures of the State to the territorial identities defined by the nationalist lords, is that progressiveism? Would it not be better to adapt the structures of the State to the needs of the twenty-first century, to equal opportunities in all the territories of Spain, to the necessary public services? No, no, I.D. Well, it's just that when I hear this deal is progressive and I see inside the Basque Nationalist Party I can't stop laughing. Do you really consider that all of Spain, Mrs Oramas, Mr Revilla, are fair enough to vote against you and that the lords of the Basque Nationalist Party are very progressive because they make the ball and they will vote you yes? Do you really think so? [[Applauds]] That agreement includes throwing out the Navarra Civil Guard, almost 200 people will come out because you take away the traffic authorities. Is that what you agree with, Socialist gentlemen? Yeah? Well, Mr. Odon Elorza of course agrees. But are the representatives of Aragon, Castile-La Mancha, Extremadura, in agreement with throwing the Navarra Civil Guard out? Are you really going to vote yes to the agreement with the PNV? [[Rumors]] Does it weigh as much as a wedlock or a charge? [[Applauds]] Another important thing. In its agreement with the PNV - which is less spoken of than that of Esquerra but which seems to me to be almost as serious - the PNV has negotiated the name of the Foral Community of Navarre. You have accepted that the PNV is Navarra's voice in an agreement with the Socialist Party and the Government of Spain. Do you know what this means? It's the precedent. For what? So that the day of tomorrow Esquerra Republicana negotiates for the França d'Aragó or for Valencia or for Baleares because supposedly there are Catalan countries. [[Applauds]] That's what you're doing. Are you going to laugh that day too, Socialist Members of Aragon, when you see Republican Left negotiating for the Aragó Strip? Are you also going to laugh, as you laugh today, gentlemen of Valencia, when you see the Republican Left negotiating for the Valencian Community, because for them there are Catalan countries? I think you might laugh, or cry, or whatever Pedro Sánchez tells you, because in the end you have to charge, but socialist voters are not going to laugh in those territories; they are not going to laugh, really not. [[applause]] They are very advocates of autonomy; they are very advocates of autonomy when, for example, in Madrid they decide to lower taxes. They say: No, you can't lower taxes because it affects my autonomy. But when the PNV negotiates for the Community of Navarre, that gives equal to the defenders of sanchismo. What's with this progressive thing? What does this have to do with social democracy? That you are basing yourself on the identity story, in which the nationalists define what identities Spain has to adapt to. What does that have to do with progressiveism? What is progressive about communities of first and communities of second? What is progressive about more public services in one territory than in another? What is progressive about a child born in an autonomous community having more opportunities than those born in another autonomous community in Spain? What does that have to do with progressiveism, socialist gentlemen? What's with the progressive thing? What does it have to be progressive to tell politicians not to worry, that if they skip the laws, the judges won't intervene? [[Applauds]] You're here passing laws, we're all passing laws that have to be enforced by the self-governing and the families of this country, and poor from whom you skip them. Poor self-employed person who pays a late day the VAT, poor family who puts his child in school a day after the enrollment is closed, but if you are Junqueras, Puigdemont or Torra, beware that Sanchez tells you that the policy will not be judicialized. Is that progressive? Is it progressive to tell the judges from a bench of the Congress of Deputies what they have to do? Is that progressiveism, gentlemen of the Socialist Party? No, it is not progressive; it is surrender, it is an amendment to the whole of progressiveism and social democracy in Spain, and I will tell you more. You see these agreements with the PNV and with Esquerra, and some may say, "Well, it's not important, it's story-telling, it's nuances, it's things that don't have direct application." Look, you've been doing this since the 1980s. The PSOE and the PP have been yielding to nationalism since the 1980s. Every gesture made by nationalism is one more meter of land won by the sea that does not recover so easily. Do you think that in the 1980s socialists, populars - or their precedents - thought that in 2017 Convergence i Unió was going to give a coup d'état in Catalonia? Every time they looked elsewhere with indoctrination in schools, every time they gave them some competition, every time they took away from the Civil Guard, do you think they knew that nationalism was going to give a coup d'état in 2017? Probably not. It was easy to know from the year 2000, 2005, which is when Citizens were born and we started to warn, but perhaps in 1990 no one imagined it, because nationalism is moving forward and because supposed constitutionalism thinks in the short term and nationalism thinks in the long term. Do not take away any of the phrases you have signed with the nationalists because it is land won by the sea for nationalism and land lost for constitutionalism and for Spain, which is what you do not take into account many times. [[Applauds]] Look, I am not going to talk about the agreement with Esquerra, which, I insist, is not the only one - we must not just remove Esquerra; we would have the problem of the government and the PNV - but after the humiliation of Mr Rufián's intervention, has it really not been possible for any of the Members of the Socialist Party, after talking about repression, about political prisoners, that they had put the rattlesnake on the cat, as after talking about Catalan countries, to see how the president of the government in office - candidate today - has come out and started to thank Rufian for the intervention and support? Didn't you feel anything? Hasn't it crossed your mind to say, "I don't drink for this?" Is there not a single brave, nor one that would bring down the investiture among all this bench, as Mrs Ana Oramas has done, which today has changed her vote? Not one? One? One? Is it really worth it? Is it worth it? [[a Member of Parliament: Nooo!]] [[Greetings.-Rumores.-Mr.Sicilia Alferez utters words that are not perceived]] Look, to the Catalan constitutionalists you have sold us again, you have sold us back to nationalism talking about political conflict, but what political conflict?, that you declared independence illegally? What political conflict, that our children be adopted in schools? What political conflict, insulting us from TV3 every day? What political conflict, that they threaten us and point out our homes every day? Lord of Teruel There is, I am very sorry for your paintings today and I condemn them absolutely; now imagine what it is to live like this every day for years in Catalonia; imagine that every day in Catalonia, every day. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, when he goes to Catalonia, he talks to Iceta, tells him his version, he goes with a subfuse in case something happens to him and quickly he has his protection and of course he doesn't need anything else. But you know what? That the constitutionalists in Catalonia most of the time the only thing they have to protect themselves is their courage; their courage in the face of humiliation and the attacks of nationalism. You cannot negotiate a consultation only in Catalonia. You have spent a few weeks saying that you were going to define the illegal referendum to give Esquerra a consultation, only in Catalonia, only in Catalonia, and of what was negotiated only by separatism. How can you explain this to the Spanish? And, above all, will you have to explain something else, or do you intend to dispatch the deal with Esquerra like this? Aren't you going to give any more explanations? What Mr Rufián said about amnesty, will you explain it here, Mr Sánchez, or will you slip away too and run away from the opposition's questions? Don't you have anything to explain what Mr. Rufian said about the amnesty? When you say judicialization, Mr. Sánchez, what do you mean? When you talk about eliminating judicialization, what do you mean? Are they not going to resort to the unconstitutional laws made by the Government of the Generalitat? What do you mean, Mr Sánchez, that you are going to threaten the judges so that they do not intervene when these gentlemen skip the laws? What do you mean? Are you going to decriminalize the crime of sedition and rebellion? I say this because I have a trick to keep politics from being judicial, really, and I share it for free: don't skip the laws and don't court politics; it's very easy, very easy. [[Applauds]] I think the best summary of today, historic without a doubt, has done Bildu: It is an opportunity for us. If it's an opportunity for Bildu, nothing tells you it's a danger for Spain, Mr. Sánchez? [[Applauds]] If this agreement is good for Bildu, isn't there anything in your consciousness that tells you that maybe it's not good for the Spanish as a whole? Look, those of us who are going to vote that no and those of us who criticize this agreement are not fair. I don't think Rubalcaba or Mr. Felipe González are fairies, do they? [[Rumors]] I don't think you'd be fair the days you said this was inconceivable. I don't know if Mr. Revilla is a fair one, too. By the way, Mr Revilla is threatened with breaking the agreement in Cantabria, but that of the Barcelona Parliament with Puigdemont has not threatened to break it. The one from Revilla in Cantabria does because he doesn't sue them. The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party can simply stay in the PS, the Sanchista Party; it's only one vote away, a brave one that doesn't happen today. [[Rumors]] I sincerely believe that there is dignity in many socialists, that there is great dignity in many socialists; I only ask for courage, because a public salary, a public office never justifies so much humiliation for the Spanish as a whole... [[protests]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u150	Quiet, please. Mrs. Arrimadas, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u151	Yes, I'll be right there, Madam President. I want to address all the Spaniards who are worried today, who are outraged today, who are restless today. I want to tell them that they're not alone and that they don't give up. We do not surrender in Catalonia in 2017, we will not surrender now. These gentlemen want us angry, they want us silent, they want us desperate, and they will find us firmly fighting for Spain as we have always done since Citizens. I would also like to remind you that this requires a strong centre, a strong liberal centre, because Mr Sánchez wants extremes, he wants to resurrect the two Spains. [[Rumors]] Without the two Spains, Mr Sánchez does not remain in Moncloa. Just as in the Transition the center was decisive, just as in order to stop the coup d'état in Catalonia the center was decisive, it will be today. Finally, the separatist and nationalist lords who are so happy today, do not get confused, Spain is not Pedro Sánchez; Spain is much more than what Pedro Sánchez represents today and just as we beat you in Catalonia we will win you in the whole of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Arrimadas, several previous remarks. The first is that you have called for an agreement between the European Social Democracy, the European People's Party and the European Liberals and, simply to your knowledge, I was the one who negotiated that on behalf of the European Social Democratic family. [[Applauds]] Look, Mrs Arrimadas, I remember, because we were in the European Council building for 30 hours, where the President of the French Republic was; the Dutch Prime Minister, of the family to which you belong at European level; there was also the Prime Minister of Luxembourg; there was the Belgian Prime Minister, who is today the President of the European Council, the fruit of that agreement and they were asking me how this was going from the investiture in Spain after 28 April and before 10 November. They said to me, "And with Rivera, that the Socialist Party and Citizens add 180 seats?" I just don't even have Mr. Rivera on the phone. Then, they were very surprised and I explained to the European liberals that the problem in Spain is that the supposedly liberals had put a health cord on the Socialist Party and embraced the far right. Some of them, who had done that in the past, reminded me that the result of their understanding with the ultra-right in one of those Governments and also in some municipalities of their country had led them to the most absolute defeat. That is where I leave you, Mrs Arrimadas, to see if you reflect on the results of 10 November. [[Applauds]] Second question, Mrs. Arrimadas. Just as I have fifty-seven seats, ten seats, one seat, I'm going to be deeply respectful of your organization. The Socialist Party is a party with 140 years of life, it is a party that has suffered many avatars. I remember that when I was elected Secretary General there was a very important feeling of the Socialist Party's militancy not only to have primary ones. The Socialist Party was the first party with primaries of the Spanish political system, not the primaries you make, if not the real ones. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Party, Mrs Arrimadas, also took the decision, as a result of what happened in Mr Rajoy's investiture, to incorporate in his statutes the consultations before decisions of investiture that could occur, of government agreements that could occur. And, look, the progressive coalition agreement with Unidad Podemos was ratified by more than 50% of the Socialist Party's affiliates and affiliates and endorsed by more than 90% of the Socialist Party's affiliates and affiliates. The agreements have been ratified by the Federal Executive Commission, it was in plenary. What I want to say to you with this, Mrs Arrimadas, is that the Socialist Party makes its decisions in a collegial, democratic way and, in that sense, Mrs Arrimadas, all I ask is respect. The other day there was something that really caught my eye, because you picked up the phone and called your representatives in the Parliament of Asturias. It turns out that in the Parliament of Asturias, ladies and gentlemen, for those who are not familiar with political life in Asturias, the representatives of Citizens made the mistake of negotiating with the socialist government the adoption of budgets. Mrs Arrimadas, the manager who is now carrying Citizens, had not found out; she took off the phone, called the deputy and told her that they did not have to support those budgets. It turns out that the Member, who had negotiated loyally, took up the resignation, voted in favour and resigned her record and her militancy in Citizens. Why am I saying this? Because it turns out that you tell your territories what to do and you call the autonomous presidents of the Socialist Party to tell them to tell me what to do. By the way, Mrs. Arrimadas, if you haven't spoken to them, I have here the mobile, I leave it to you, I leave the mobile of any of the 120 seats you have here to talk to them, Mrs. Arrimadas. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] But what I am not going to tolerate - and what is in the Minutes at least, Mrs Arrimadas, because I do not want to go into this kind of refractory because it is what you want, that you go into this mud and I am not going to go into it - is that for you to vote that not my investiture is a result of the moral conviction that you so fervently defend and the congressional deputies who belong to the socialist bench if they vote that it is because they want to win a penny. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] A respect, Mrs. Arrimadas! A respect for the Socialist Party! A respect for the Socialist Parliamentary Group! [[Applauds.-Mr.Abalos Meco: If you knew what a party is!]] Because what we've seen, Mrs. Arrimadas, is that new year, old speech. We have changed by year, but you have not changed your attitude, because you continue with the blockade, nor speech, which is an absolutely trembling speech. That's it, Your Honor, as if nothing had happened; it's the same thing I said to Mr. Married, isn't it? But of course it's happened, Mrs. Arrimadas! In your formation today there is a manager and you are the supposed contender to lead the Citizens Party after Mr Rivera's resignation after the outcome of last November 10. Look, in six months, Your Honor, you have lost forty-seven seats of fifty-seven that you got on April 28, 72%. How many seats have they obtained in Catalonia from the forty-eight seats that were distributed? The same as the People's Party and the ultra-right. And the twenty-three seats or, rather, twenty-three of those forty-seven seats that you have lost were where you agreed with the PP and the ultra-right the formation of governments. Things have changed a lot, Mrs. Arrimadas, and you can't climb here a little less than - in addition to even one, if you will allow me, with all the affection and with all the respect, somewhat reckless argument - to give lessons of electoral results to the Socialist Party that won the elections five times last year, but good. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Things have changed a lot, Mrs. Arrimadas. They have changed so much that today they have ten Members when they were fifty-seven a few months ago. They went from wanting to lead the opposition - remember what Mr Rivera, yourself and also the Citizens' bench said then that we came here to lead the opposition - to that curious strategy of wanting to support those who wanted to overcome. Today we are witnessing the outcome of that strategy. We are still surprised, Mrs Arrimadas, by the readings we have heard from you about your electoral collapse. The last, the most exotic, we have heard from you, which says, ladies and gentlemen, the following: The cause, according to Mrs Arrimadas, of the collapse of Citizens in the elections on November 10 was that they disoriented the electorate of Citizens because before the elections they promised to unlock governability in Spain regardless of the election result. Have you not asked yourself, Mrs Arrimadas, that perhaps - I am just saying perhaps - the reasons for the failure are in its position of blocking and, therefore, of its futility in its pacts with the ultra-right and with the right and in its inexplicable health cord for liberalism in Europe to social democracy? In the futility of supporting a formation that says the same as the ultra-right and the right? In the disbelief of the liberal European family that sees them act and agree with the right and the right and close any way of understanding with the Socialist Party? You have heard much more from the far right and the right than from your voters, Mrs Arrimadas. I understand you want to follow in the footsteps of your former president, but do not follow them all, Mrs Arrimadas, especially those who led to the precipice of your political formation. [[Applauds]] Since you, Mrs. Arrimadas, have made an appeal to the center, since you therefore call yourselves center and have been hugged for a year to the right and to the far right and are one step away from extinction, why not try for once to do something center to see if it works? Because you say the same thing as PP and that VOX, you say the same thing, you go together to the same places, you are the same book; if anything, VOX is hard cover, PP soft cover and you a pocket version. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Mrs Arrimadas, ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Bank, you have no argument whatsoever to block this investiture, but you do have many excuses. If before November 10 they did not vote for a government of the Socialist Party alone, today they do not facilitate governability because we propose a progressive coalition. Excuse me, Mrs. Arrimadas. If before 10 November they did not vote in favour of a government of the Socialist Party alone, alerting them of their dependence on nationalist forces, today they leave no more way than that. Excuse me. If before and after 10 November, as you passed on 28 April, you described the government as radical, you did so by hiding that 60% of the royal decree-laws passed by the previous administration of the Socialist Party, presented accordingly by the government in office, were approved, as well as 72% of the laws. Mrs. Arrimadas, you have now the one that may probably be the last chance to be useful, because there are many things that we could work together. I invite you to change your position, to make a critical and truthful analysis of the reason for the collapse of Citizens. I dare suggest your challenge. Your challenge is to be useful in this legislature, not to submit to the dictates of the right and the right because, believe me, Mrs. Arrimadas - if you don't believe me anything, at least take this message and this advice - neither the PP nor the right wish you anything good. There are many issues we have to work on: education, self-government, rights, freedoms and democratic regeneration. In short, Mrs Arrimadas, ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, will contribute to the unlocking, be useful, vote in favour of the investiture, contribute to the governability of the State and will thus be able to recover much of the credit lost in such a short time. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u154	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. candidate, all of Spain - all of it today, on January 4th, seeing this debate - can see the difference between how you address nationalism and how you address constitutionalism. I have asked you in my speech how it is possible that you did not scold or raise your voice before all the humiliations that Mr Rufián has shed, above all what Mrs Borràs has said. He has not beaten one, he has swallowed all of them, and he has treated them with much more respect than the voters of Citizens. He has said things that have surprised me, but I am convinced that not only have I been surprised. You have confessed that when you were in Europe with your European partners, you told them that you wanted to rule with Citizens, but that it is we who do not leave you. One small doubt: did you also tell Mr. Iglesias while negotiating with them the government? Did he say the same thing to European partners? I don't know if Mr. Pablo Iglesias has been paying attention, but his president has just admitted that, in truth, when he was negotiating an agreement with Podemos, he wanted a government with Albert Rivera. No one believes their lies. And you know why? Because I have another question for you: When were you talking to your European partners about Navarra's little detail? Did you comment on the small detail of the agreement you have made with Geroa Bai and Bildu in Navarre, or did you not tell your European partners? Because that's where we had a chance to add up. There Navarra Suma could have reached - we tried to the end - an agreement with the Socialist Party of Navarra, a moderate agreement, a reformist agreement, a constitutionalist agreement, but, as always, the goat throws on the hill and the Socialist Party chose the nationalists and, of course, lean on Bildu. He spoke of the Socialist Party's primaries. After what you starred in putting an urn behind a curtain I don't know if it's really good for you to pull this out, but you said one interesting thing, you said that an immense majority of the members of the Socialist Party bases have supported the deal with Podemos. [[applause]] I have one question: How many have supported the agreement with Esquerra? How many have supported the agreement with Esquerra, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, or is that not going to put you to the vote on your bases? Doesn't that put you to a vote on your bases, Mr. Pedro Sánchez? The PNV, who's talking about taking out the Navarra Civil Guard? Isn't that going to subdue him to his bases? It's a little weird, isn't it? You have not answered one of the questions I asked you in my speech. What does it mean that Rufian is talking about amnesty? Are you going to explain to the Spaniards? Do you think when you don't answer to me you're just not answering to me? It is no longer responding to 1 600 000 citizens' voters, for starters, but I am convinced that there are a lot more people who want to know what that means that Rufian has just said that depoliticisation includes amnesty. Are you going to answer anything or not? What does judicialization mean, as I told you? Are you going to call the judges so they don't act against the illegalities of their partners? Is that progressive? That the ruling politicians have the support of the president of the government, that they have judges who cannot touch them because they are politicians and very powerful, but that then the Spanish on foot, the autonomous and the families are enforced until the last small letter of the last law? Is that progressive? It does not seem to me; it seems to me that this is sanchismo and is very far away from the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Will you explain what it means to adapt the structures of the state to the territorial identities of the Basque Country, according to the PNV? Are you going to explain it or not? You said we only have ten seats, and it's true, we only have ten, but, come on, if I were a nationalist you would have been two months doing the ball and promising me gold and Moorish. [[Applauds]] However, as a constitutionalist, he despises us. I'm saying that because the six votes of the Basque Nationalist Party do matter to you, eh? Mr. Sanchez. There you call, there you negotiate, there you give in, but, of course, as we ask you to protect the Civil Guard and not to throw it out of Navarre, it does not matter to us; as we ask you not to raise taxes and others ask you to raise them, with us you do not want to know anything; as we ask for equal rights and obligations of all Spaniards everywhere in Spain, with us there is nothing to talk about; as we ask you that those who have given a coup d'état comply with the laws and that there are no privileges for politicians, then our ten deputies are worth very little. Look, Mr. Candidate, if you're elected president on the 7th, you'll be elected by one vote, you'll be elected by one vote! Less to despise that 1,600,000 citizens' voters, less to despise the ten citizens' votes, because you are going out for Bildu's abstention. If it weren't for Bildu and Esquerra, you would today beat a new candidacy record in an open-ended investiture debate. In addition, you are assuming that one thing is very worrying: the constitutionalists have to abstain for free for Mr Pedro Sánchez. We do not represent people, we have no right to demand a constitutionalist agreement, no, no, no, we have to abstain for free. The Basque Nationalist Party? Whatever. The Republican Left? Man, please, the bilateral table, the conflict, the consultation, the amnesty and whatever it takes, but the constitutionalists don't, the constitutionalists we have to abstain for free. Why do you despise constitutionalist voters so much and treat separatist voters so well? Why? [[Applauds]] In addition, there is a paradox that, with this great electoral law, we have a party like Esquerra Republicana that has half the vote that our party, or the PNV, that has 300,000 votes. He despises them twice. Mr Sánchez, you make many references to the number of seats we have lost in these elections. We've lost a lot of seats, a lot, 47 no more or less, but, you know what we haven't lost? Dignity, and we're not giving the deal with Republican Left. [[Applauds]] I know that it will be hard for the Socialist Party, or the Sanchist Party, to believe this, but there are people who are not afraid to lose their public office. Really, I promise you. You were referring to Mr. Albert Rivera. Take Mr. Albert Rivera's example further, take it further in your speeches, because every time you remember Albert Rivera all of Spain remembers that Albert Rivera resigned for a bad election result and you stayed after the worst result in the history of the Socialist Party. Remember Albert Rivera more. [[Applauds]] Nothing happens to resign, nothing happens to go home with your work, but for that you have to have a job out of politics, of course; for that you have to have a resume in which you not only put the logo of the PSOE; for that you have to have a profession out of politics. Are you really going to give me lessons in covenants, Mr. Pedro Sánchez? You do not answer the questions I ask you - you have not answered one, not only to me, but to the Spaniards - but do you really give me lessons of pacts a gentleman who presents himself to the investiture for the first time in history with the abstention of Bildu, with an infamous pact with Esquerra and another, also infamous, with the Basque Nationalist Party that exceeds everything granted so far? Really? [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] You used to refer to Albert Rivera. Do you know what happened to Albert Rivera a few years ago in Catalonia? That members of the youth of the Republican Left of Catalonia, of their partners, sent a bloody bullet to his house. That threat was condemned by justice. Today Albert Rivera is in his home for dignity, because he resigned and because he does not depend on a public office, like others, and today his partner is Esquerra Republicana, whose youth members were condemned for the threat. [[applause.- Several members of the Republican Parliamentary Group make negative gestures]] Yes, yes, condemned firmly for threatening Mr. Albert Rivera at his house. Finally, Mr Pedro Sánchez, explain to the Spaniards what he is willing to give up. This, all that you have given to nationalism and populism, the whole amendment to the whole of what you said, was only by an investiture. You still have 155 seats. How can you talk about blockage and instability if you are unstable? And I give you this reflection: all the autonomous communities of Spain have Government, none have had to repeat elections, none. The only place in Spain that has instability is that which depends on Pedro Sánchez. Don't you have anything to do with that blockade? Don't you have anything to do with that instability? [[Applauds]] Beyond party criticisms, many Spaniards are worried about coming to the end of the month; for the self-employed, to whom you are going to raise taxes again; for the families, to whom you are going to have your children removed from special education centres; for the measures of the communist self-named ones, who take away failed measures. Many Spaniards are concerned and what you are resolving today, or Tuesday, is not a state solution, Mr Pedro Sánchez. You are not going to have stability as President and Spain is not going to have stability as a country. You have despised constitutionalism; you have despised it in Navarre, you have despised it before the elections and you have despised it now. Mr Sánchez, the problem is you, not the vast majority of Spaniards who today have not given a vote in favour of an agreement with Podemos; it is you, and it is not going to be good for you, Mr Sánchez, it is not going to be good for you. With you in the Spanish government you will be more impoverished in economic terms, you will be more divided by territories and trenches, because you are dedicated to digging trenches every day with themes that you know are not of the future but of the past. Spain will be much weaker in its institutions, but Spain is certainly much stronger than you think. And if you think that references to Albert Rivera hurt us...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u156	Mrs. Arrimadas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u157	..., I tell you that whenever you can take Albert Rivera's example, because every time you take his example you will see the difference between a statesman and a person who at any price will try to get to sleep on a mattress in Moncloa. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u159	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Arrimadas, I have never asked Citizens for a free vote. When we had the meeting where we talked about the investiture, you presented me with a document where there were three points. He was talking about the educational pact, he was talking about the Electoral law - it is true that you raised issues that were not acceptable to us, but raised an amendment to the Electoral Law that I, too, said in my investiture speech that we must change; for example, we must abolish the requested vote - and also talked about fiscal responsibility and budgetary stability. I told him that these three issues - the educational pact, the electoral law and fiscal responsibility - were taken up if those were the demands you raised for me. I'm not saying it because I'm discovering any private conversation, because I don't want to focus on it at all, or I don't think it's coming from this rostrum, I'm just putting black on white or, rather, I'm saying in the rostrum what, black on white, you also published in the media the day we met. These were the three demands placed on the table by Mrs. Arrimadas' party: an educational pact, the Electoral Law, budgetary stability and fiscal responsibility. Mrs. Arrimadas, we agree. Let's work on it. If those are the three points you demand to vote in favour of my investiture, I have no problem with taking them up and working on those three points. I have never aspired to the free vote of your party. I respect your party, as I said in the first speech, Mrs Arrimadas. What's the problem? That you don't care so much about what, but who. And who are neither the nationalists nor the independenceists nor the United We can, who is the Socialist Party. This is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, that you have placed a health cordon on the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and have embraced the right and the right. So they have done in Andalusia, so they have done in Madrid, so they have done in Murcia, so they have done in Castile and León, so they have done in the city of Madrid and so they have done in so many places, which explains the collapse and electoral debacle of the Ciudadanos party. [[Applauds]] You are warning all hours about the calamities that would occur if Republican Left votes were decisive. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Arrimadas, if that horizon is as frightening as it is described, how is it possible that you do not avoid it with the votes? In what becomes a center party that always manifests itself with the right and the right, that always pacts Governments with the right and with the right and that always votes with the right and with the right? Well, it becomes a game that is confused with the right and the right. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the million-dollar question: what is the point of a centre party that always does the same thing as the right and the right? Well, I'll tell you what your old voters think: for nothing. Mrs. Arrimadas, you won the elections in Catalonia. It was the most sterile triumph you remember, the greatest disappointment for your own voters. He did not even attempt to form a Government and his party did not submit a motion of censure. Look, you didn't file a motion of censure until you left the Parliament of Catalonia. Then, in the few days of the April elections, they presented a motion of censure that was not aimed at displacing Mr. Torra from the Presidency of the Generalitat of Catalonia, but was going against the Party of Socialists of Catalonia to try to put him in trouble. And now, having been the first force in Catalonia, they have the same representation as their other two companions in the photo of Columbus Square. When are you going to realize, Mrs. Arrimadas, that this strategy of blind follow-up of the ultra-right and the People's Party leads you to disappear? When are they gonna figure it out? I invite you to abandon this coalition of apocalypse and not vote with the ultra-right and the right to block a government that needs Spain more time. They complain and exaggerate all the time of the force that the Republican Left has when the Republican Left has the strength that you give them and amplify with your hyperboles and with your exaggerations. They spend all the time proclaiming what socialist voters think and calling socialist leaders. It's amazing how much they say they know about the socialist voters and how little they know about their own voters, who run away from you in disarray. [[Applauds]] In any case, Mrs Arrimadas, ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, I say to you: Spain is not going to be reduced to rubble, as Mrs Arrimadas said in her first speech, but it is not going to be because there is a progressive government, a progressive coalition, but because it will not have a retrograde government of the right and the right. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u160	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Pedro Sánchez, I don't know if you have a very bad memory. Don't you remember the number one point of the document I took you to the meeting? Do not agree with populists or nationalists a Government of Spain, which is what you said in election campaign, no more or less. Have you forgotten this point number one? A little detail, don't you think? Are you really going to leave here, from the investiture session, without explaining to the Spaniards the details of the agreement with Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia, without explaining what Mr Rufián of Amnesty has just said, without explaining what it means not to judicialize the matter that you call political conflict, which is a conflict of some gentlemen who skip the laws against, besides, half the Catalans? Are you really going to leave here without explaining this to the Spaniards? Are you going to leave here without answering one of the questions? You are leaving millions of Catalans abandoned, who are seeing how you are rewarding those who skip the laws and are leaving helpless those who have suffered the biggest attack on democracy in the last decades in Spain. Aren't you going to answer this? Are you really going to continue giving lessons from partners when you rule with Puigdemont in the Barcelona Parliament? Are you really going to continue giving lessons from partners when you rule in a lot of municipalities in Catalonia with Esquerra Republicana or with Junts per Catalunya? Are you really going to continue to give lessons when in Navarre you are ruling with Geroa Bai within the government and relying on Bildu? Mr. Sanchez, are you going to leave here without answering these questions and giving lessons? Do you really think you're in that condition? Look, the problem with your government agreement, as you very well said in the campaign - lying to all the Spaniards, by the way - is not just what you are giving to Republican Esquerra, it is that the problem is within the government, because today is going to make history, Mr Sánchez. When you go to talk to your friends and your European partners you will have to explain to them why you have chosen as vice president a gentleman who says that in Spain there are political prisoners or that a referendum of secession must be held in Catalonia. That's also the problem of your agreement, not everything you've given up - which, of course, it is too - with Republican Left. But you know what happens, you know what Citizens do? To make it a much more uncomfortable opposition than that made by VOX and the People's Party. You are delighted with VOX and very nervous with Citizens because you know we unmasked them. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, they are delighted with the trenches, but Spain will come out of this one from the center, as it went out in the Transition; Spain will come out of this one from the center, as we left after the coup d'état in Catalonia. You speak of the Electoral Law in Catalonia. By the way, do you know why I couldn't introduce myself to an investiture session? Because the Socialist Party and the People's Party did not want to change the Electoral Law, which grants over-representation to independence in Catalonia. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] That's your fault, Mr. Sanchez. I asked him to change it at my meeting. I asked him to put a minimum percentage to have representation in the Congress of Deputies, as they have so many countries - their partners in Europe will tell you next time you go - and do you know what he told me? No, because you give in to those who skip the laws a lot, you give in to those who want to break Spain, but you despise and humiliate the voters of the constitutionalist parties.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u162	Mrs. Arrimadas, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u163	I'm done with this, Madam President. Thank you for remembering that when we filed a motion of censure in Catalonia against Torra you did not support it. Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. The last thing. It is better not to ever become president of the government than to arrive as you will to Moncloa. It is much better not to have a public office than to exercise it as you are now exercising it. And I assure you that many socialist voters are much more in agreement with what we have said today than with what you have said from the rostrum. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Arrimadas, we are in a circular debate. You pull a lot of argument, I respect it. [[Rumors]] I simply say to you, Your Honor, what reflection, what reflection, what reflection, what role citizens have to play with ten seats in this Congress of Deputies, because they can do many things if they declare themselves to be a useful political formation. In any case, Your Honor, I hope you will reconsider, reconsider your position, stop being an appendage of the right and the right, which is indeed the centre. And to be centered what must be done first is to believe it, not to do what the right and the right say, to be a center game and not always bet on the same side. From there, if we can find ourselves in some of the policies, welcome be. I, of course, respect, wish you the best as the next leader of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and hope and hope that in the next four years we will be able to find ourselves in the adoption of laws that will undoubtedly be important to our country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u166	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u167	Mr candidate, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Let me remind you of the recent past, because it will help us situate ourselves and because both in life and in cinema we are passing screens. As José Luis Garci would say, cinema is so big! Who was going to say that? We spent five months without agreeing on a Government, from April to September, in circumstances far more favourable than the current ones to form a majority. Months lost, nothing happened. I already said it at the time, it was our day of the Trapped Marmot in time. It was apparently impossible to reconcile an agreement between Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, so much so that it led us to new elections, bringing about almost a year of interim government. Now we see that what looked like a chimera, something as difficult as mixing water with oil, came true on two days of the election night with a stiff embrace between the leaders of the Socialist Party and the United Podemos. So here we are, in the middle of the week of Kings - unusual dates where there are, weekend included -, hurry and run, to carry on an investiture. These weeks on our Fast and Furious screens. I am not going to say that it is easy to obtain a sufficient majority to pass this investiture procedure and to be able to keep the Government in minimum conditions of stability. The new elections have brought complicated results to manage: nothing less than ten parliamentary groups and twenty-two - not nineteen, Mr. candidate - political formations represented in the House, if I have not miscounted. Still, it seems that this investiture will successfully conclude for the candidate. We must all congratulate not only the partners of the government coalition and those other formations that, as is already known, will support or enable the formation of government; even those who will vote against should be congratulated, since there is no worse situation, in terms of governance and future, than the continued provisionality in the institutions, for all that implies the paralysis of a country's life, there is no such situation. It is also an unprecedented situation in the formation of a Spanish Government. Since the time of the Second Republic no coalition governments had been experienced; rare for a purely parliamentary system. A coalition government in need of external parliamentary support is a novelty, right; it is a paradigm shift and, potentially, a cycle shift. But as much as, like Susan Sarandon in Thelma and Louis, some say that 'well, we are not at the end of the world, but from here it is seen', let alone the situation is that of vacuum jump that they predict; quite the opposite, quite the opposite. And to delve into this idea, as we are with cinematographic similes, allow me to continue in that line, because this situation in which we find ourselves reminds me of a film that many of you will have seen, Moneyball, which is the biography of a sports director of baseball, Billy Beane, at the beginning of this century. In a scene, at the end of the film, the protagonist - who is being vilified after putting into operation a team management system based on statistics that manages to put up the way to understand the competition and the league contracts - is talking to the manager of the Red Sox, and the latter, the manager, tells him: The first to break the wall always bleeds, always. They see it as a threat to their livelihood. He threatens his jobs, his ways of doing things, and every time that happens, whether it's a government, a way of doing business or whatever, the people who carry the reins, the people who have control, they go crazy about tying. And that's exactly what excitation denotes from some areas right now, be it economic, be it the media, the politician, the judiciary, the Armed Forces, the Civil Guard or other functional worlds. A few who feel that they are bearing the reins at this time have many questions, doubts or directly reticence or rejection; some for economic interest, others ideological, others work, others for fear of losing influence. They believe that the mechanisms they knew since the transition can change, mechanisms that from their position made the evolution of things predictable. Suddenly, mechanisms, priorities, agreements, how to understand the future can - and I say only - change. But if we are to achieve a time of coexistence, of seeking solutions beyond the slogans, of recognizing the other, of accepting the reality as it is, including the differentiated national feeling in some parts of the State; if we are to deal with the major structural problems, not only in the territorial but also in the social sphere, be they pensions, unemployment, equal opportunities, justice, collaboration between different people is necessary and inexcusable. I do not consider a realistic solution, either in democratic or political terms, to seek to solve the problems by gagging or niling millions of citizens. What we have heard these weeks about a possible multi-party-backed government has been from separatists to coups, from irresponsible to even criminal, a Frankenstein Government. And today we have heard other appeals and some more has been repeated, because more things have been said, some very serious if those who say them really take the Constitution seriously: the traitor candidate has been qualified and accused of selling to Spain. In short, it is a question of disqualifying, as if the only sensible ones were themselves and they were, as if they were the only legitimate ones to make silent agreements affecting citizens, because, if not, every alternative Government is illegitimate. And I am not referring to what has been poured on social networks, no; I am referring to what has been said by representatives of the PP, VOX, Citizens and many media opinionators in chats, radios, televisions and written press: the legitimacy of representing the authentic, the only admissible, the authentic Spain. They will remember that in the film The Good Shepherd there is a scene in which the head of counterintelligence of the CIA, played by Matt Damon, an authentic Wasp - you know, the American stereotype white, Anglo-Saxon and Protestant - meets with an old Italian American. The old man, at a certain point, says to him: The Italians have the family and the Church, the Irish have their homeland, the Jews, their tradition, even the blacks have their music, but their people, Mr. Carlson, what do you have? The CIA chief's response is cold and blunt: The United States of America, you're just visiting. His idea of a State is the only valid one, all the others are neither acceptable nor constitutional. The marginals, however majority they are in their respective territories, are people to silence, either by changing the Electoral Law - because many of you want to expel us from this Chamber - or by excluding us from any participation in the Government, because apparently anything that is remembered with us - Basques, Catalans, separatist reds - comes as a ring to their finger for their agitprop and lie. We cannot and cannot discuss a law, apparently, either the pension system or the territorial structure, anything. Because, of course, the United States of America - read in this case Spain - is yours. In fact, they go even beyond what the CIA chief says in the film because they don't even allow us to vote to see if we want to stop visiting. In fact, they have turned Spain into an idea reduced to square kilometers where the important thing is the maintenance of borders, the participation of some citizens can be questioned. For you millions of people are perfectly expendable, you don't have to take them into account if you don't agree with those borders or simply don't meet your patriotic standards and feel members of different nations within the state. Mr. Casado has been betrayed today by the subconscious when he has been literally worried about all the Spaniards who live in Catalonia. That attitude is not in line with a true democratic spirit, it is not worth everything. As Spencer Tracy says in his role as judge in the film Winners or vanquished, a country is not a rock nor is it the prolongation of itself, it is the cause that defends; it is what defends when defending something is the most difficult. That's right, a country is its values, it's justice, it's true, it's people, it's the value of democratic principles above personal desires, respect, inclusive dialogue. And that is what constitutes the backbone of a country that is valued, its being or not, is called that country as it is called and places where it is located. [[Applauds]] And as seen, it is clear that the only possibility opened up not only as hope, but as the only real way to form government and stop living in institutional provisionality was the agreement that will probably be seen tomorrow and next Tuesday in the votes of this Congress. It is even clearer to see the speeches of some forces in this House. It's a complicated alliance, I don't deny it, but it can also have its advantages. It is a Government that has to work with new formulas from the outset and can therefore be willing to face new challenges, to seek solutions to the eternal deferred problems that are always trying to hide; some under the guise of law and the Constitution, such as the territorial one, and others, such as that of pensions, youth unemployment or the new formulas of labor reality that are appearing making a mess in society and generating inequality without the legislation being adapted, simply, obviated by pressure or inertia. But the formation of this government can give way to a country that stops looking to the past, to the factual powers, to immobilization in making decisions that will improve harmony. Mr. Candidate, the final direction this government takes will depend heavily on its real leadership and the boldness it demonstrates. I understand that there may be reticence between the partners when they start walking, it's normal. This path has not been travelled so far, but I think that everyone we are going to get involved in should think about the other as in the thin red line, maybe I'm your best friend and you haven't figured it out yet. [[Laughter]] As far as the Basque Nationalist Party is concerned, I can assure you that you will have our loyal and also sincere cooperation, you can count on us to face up to and seek solutions to the challenges facing you in the legislature. We will be pro-active and imaginative, we know perfectly well the difficulties of the political situation, but also the collective opportunities that are presented and that we advance in the solutions will depend on you at last as President of the Executive. You must have enough hurling to advance through doors that have not yet been explored, it is a challenge and a great opportunity. No one says, I insist, that the task of government will be easy at the time we are in, but it is not impossible. I want to be optimistic because it is the attitude that allows something to come true, but will they have the courage to find solutions to the major structural problems in democratic terms? Can we understand the complexity of the moment and respect the mechanisms of exchange of information and positions so that we all feel at ease in the development of the legislature? Will the action of the new government respect the autonomous competences? Because too many times I've seen you stay in water with drunken commitments and good wills. So as in Bourne's Ultimatum, my number one rule is to expect the best and predict the worst. That is exactly how my parliamentary group views the moment. To be honest, among these difficulties, there are also other risks. The first is that of egos and party interests. If this becomes from the first day into an internal competition and between people to see who mediatizes who and in a struggle to star in the cover of the next day, the thing will not work, because neither will the media pressures nor from the economic areas that will be made present from the minute one, if they have not already done it - they have done it - and their strength is not negligible. Nor does it have to be said that internal pressures will arise within the parties, which will give rise to doubts and fears in the partners. No one can predict the circumstances that will occur. So, as in Eve naked, fasten your belts, this is going to be a moving night. [[Laughter]] Those with the vote in favour of abstention will facilitate this investiture we must apply that phrase of Any Sunday: it depends on you, or we learn to fight as a team or we will lose as individuals. Let's all be aware, it's possible to move forward, do some things, not others. Let us make sense to find a meeting point, to bring out the best of all and for all. My group, once again, is very aware of the moment we are going through. You will have seen that our agreement with the candidate and his Government is based on basic and practical lines. We have sought a commitment to tackle structural problems in various areas. His first point, which speaks of maintaining a fluid and constant communication with the Basque Nationalist Party, giving sufficient advance notice of the projects and initiatives that the Government wishes to promote, and committing itself to reaching a satisfactory agreement in the event of a discrepancy, is the key to the proper development of the rest of the legislature. It claims that the Government in its work does not intrude on the one hand on autonomous competences and, on the other, that we can agree on the fundamental contents, given the ideological difference between parties. We can discuss everything; we are ready to reach agreements, but it cannot become a rule of operation for the legislative tragala to put us before the disjunctive of supporting bills with which we are in broad disagreement so as not to cause a crisis of governance. I hope that the two partners who will be part of the government structure will understand this. On the other hand, we are confident that this Parliament will regain its normalcy by leaving for what is strictly necessary the decrees laws. Another fundamental aspect of the Government's action that we propose is the abandonment of the judicialization of politics, which has only brought difficulties in finding precisely political solutions. The courts cannot continue to be the excuse for not doing politics, and even less can they be the instruments with which they intend to do so. We are constantly seeing it: the use, the brazen manoeuvring, obscene of law in the partisan struggle. It is no longer just the courts, they are even administrative bodies such as the Central Electoral Board, which boast competences that they do not have and make interpretations of the law that they would send to any law student in September. And they perpetrate it by being very aware that with their intervention they make politics. The world of law is upside down and the European courts are not coming out of their astonishment. Is this pseudo-judicial interventionism what Spain means? Do not be surprised when, in a few weeks' time, the European Parliament rejects the petitions. Then again he will roar against Europe the Spanish fetan, which he calls felons to the rest and will do so to the bullfighter's cry of leave me alone!, because if something is being visualized is that Spain is less European than it said it was. Of course, one of the greatest crises in the State at the moment that has been dragging away from the Transition is territorial. Of this is notorious evidence this very Plenary. If the situation is to be normalized, it is possible, but it requires from everyone the sufficient will and the need to recognize that there are different feelings of national belonging in the citizenry and there is no point in denying it. The letter with blood doesn't come in; that's what Franco and others tried before. That is why it is an issue that the new Government must and cannot ignore. The cry has been put in the sky for recognition of the existence of national political disputes. It is not worth the imposition or the mere appeal to the law as an unchangeable thing that must be applied with criminal rigour by means of stick and temptuous. This leads only to the conundrum of the problem and to institutional, social and economic instability. We are seeing this, the path is dialogue and agreement, from the recognition of plurality and reality; a dialogue that results in an agreement - agreed - in an agreement that modifies, where appropriate, the legal order and is ratified by the citizenry. What about extraordinary or unacceptable in this? What is reprehensible about a Western European framework? Absolutely nothing. That is what our agreement establishes: recognition of the political problem arising from the existence of different sensitivities of national membership, willingness to dialogue and seek agreement, and modification in their case of the law in the agreed terms. Neither judicial shortcuts nor exceptionality are worth it. The area of the economy must also be a basic piece for the next government. We play a lot; first of all, to prevent people from suffering a deterioration in their working conditions as a result of the necessary energy and technological transition; also the infrastructures corresponding to the State without which adequate development is not possible. I also wanted to name the European sphere, which has already become a domestic area to which we must pay special attention and in which the Basque institutions must have a direct presence by implementing existing channels, such as the Treaty Act, which is already in the legal system, and other new ones. In this international context, there is also the search for channels to vehicle the demands of self-representation in sport and culture, claims that enjoy broad social support in Euskadi and whose solution can help to solve, and much, the identity tensions. In the field of rights and freedoms, a modification of those known as digital decrees, whose constitutionality is more than questioned, is necessary. Reforming the so-called Law on Official Secrets or a new Law on Official Secrets - I stress this again - which would be a milestone in the necessary deepening of historical memory; all of these issues on which our group has already presented the corresponding initiatives also in this legislature. Another part of the agreement is devoted to strict compliance with the law - I repeat, strict compliance with the law - both of the statutes and financial relations instruments, the content of which is unfortunately too often obscured in the dynamics of the Spanish Governments. I repeat, I insist: strict compliance with the current law. On this I want to add something else. The comments made by the Secretary General of the People's Party on Thursday on this agreement are graceful, if they were a point of fact: With the law it is not negotiated, it is applied and point; it is a historical shame that involves liquidated the Statute of Gernika and the Constitution. It is necessary to have a face, coming from a formation that presented and put to vote in the Senate a motion to prevent the pending transfers of the Statute of Gernika that, as we all know - perhaps the PP not - is an organic law endorsed. This is the measure and level of Spanish policy. They say these things with a tremendous boldness. They don't care if reality is clearly another; they don't care to lie about their own acts and those of others, about the scope of agreements or what the laws say. You do it, too, with the tone of Chico Marx disguised as Groucho in Goose soup: Man, please, who are you going to believe, me or your own eyes? [[Laughter]] That is the same tone they use in the criticisms that they have made with UPN about our agreement to transfer the traffic competition to the Foral Community of Navarra, speaking of intolerable assignment; criticisms to which, by the way, the parliamentary group of arrows, pelayos and margaritas has also joined, and also the pocket version, you know, Mr. candidate, Citizens. It takes a face to get your hands on the head for the Basque Nationalist Party to negotiate something about Navarra. To begin with, he is sorry that they are always telling us that we should know that Members and Senators represent all citizens. Well, that's it, isn't it? On the other hand, that the PP, born in 1989, and UPN, which was founded in 1979, say that the PNV is not a Navarro party has a crime, especially considering that the first Basque nationalist act takes place in the 19th century in Navarra, during the range in defense of the foral regime and that the executive Navarra of the PNV exists since 1912. It was our people who, for defending the Navarra identity and its symbols, had to endure the abuses of the ideological precedents of PP and UPN, such as Santiago Doxandabaratz, Peneuvista councillor of Tafalla who suffered exile and later confiscation of properties for raising the Navarra flag on the balcony of the city hall in 1924. Yes, the Navarra flag, not the Ikurriña. And in case they had forgotten, the second authority in Navarre, the President of Parliament, is of the Basque Nationalist Party, the president of its executive, for more signs, in Navarre. As are many parliamentarians of the Geroa Bai coalition; Geroa Bai is a coalition that is the third force of the Parliament of Navarre, which is also part of the government coalition and therefore has advisers. Look, it turns out that the largest party in that coalition called Geroa Bai is the Basque Nationalist Party. So get used to it, we'll continue to defend Navarra law and freedoms. By the way, when they oppose the transfer of traffic in Navarre they should remember that at the eighth congress of UPN, in 2009, just ten years ago, their political presentation called for the assumption of such a transfer as an irrevocable objective - literal, irrevocable - for its exclusive exercise - literal, exclusive - by the foral police: an irrevocable objective in the assumption of such a transfer - traffic - for its exclusive exercise by the foral police. From a time to this part it is becoming increasingly clear why UPN was born, which was not precisely to defend the naval furo. By the way, the People's Party should remember that Aznar had already committed itself to such a transfer in 2000. And to finish it, it turns out that the PNV cannot say anything about Navarra and the PP instead designates as expert for the modification of the Basque statute nothing less than the Navarro and Navarra meaning Jaime Ignacio del Burgo. Well, consistent, as always. By the way, if you all want to have a gesture with the Civil Guard so badly, I'll make you a suggestion. I suggest you pay tribute to José Rodríguez-Medel, commander of the Civil Guard in Pamplona, who faced the Francoist uprising led by Mola in defense of legality and was murdered, denying him even his own tomb and tombstone in his memory. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, our vote in favour is an exceptional gesture if we look at the precedents of the last decades. We have only voted yes twice, but we understand the circumstances in which we are moving. Without our vote in favour of the candidate, the investiture would fail without a solution, and we must act responsibly. If we bet on moving this legislature forward, we do so with all the consequences, knowing that this implies a commitment that does not end in the investiture. If problems need to be solved, that requires a minimally strong Government; if we want to be able to respond to the challenges set out in our agreement, stability is necessary. The State cannot afford another year without Government, nor can the rest of the institutions that need to be politically and dynamically involved in decision-making from ministries. Don't let others tell us about your sense of state and love for your country. If this agreement really means the end of Spain, the homeland apocalypse, if this separatist red conjunction is so pernicious, why, instead of facilitating the investiture, do you choose to block it over and over again, when your abstention would make our participation unnecessary? What kind of deception is this? A sense of state? Do you really know what that means? Perhaps we do not have it, but we do have common sense, a vision of politics, not as a mere formula for nullifying the adversary and institutional vocation. We don't believe in the worst, the best, nor do we believe in taking you away from me. Politics, if it is useful, if it serves to advance, is done by remembering, not denying and confronting society. What a pearl Mr. Married left us today. He literally said: We will win, you will lose. A phrase proper to civilist warfare, never of a high-level politician with a sense of state. [[Applauds]] We cannot subject society to a continuous departure in which we are eternally casting the dice in the form of successive elections until we have the result that suits us. In fact, what will happen if we continue to cast the dice, if we continue to play politics, is that we are going to run out of credit and, if there is no credit, politics, democracy and its values are going to lose, and with this will come the rise of intolerant and totalitarian parties. We have seen it recently and to show a button in the last elections. It's a transcendental moment, more than we can imagine. We know how to read it and act accordingly. As Robin Williams says in The Club of Dead Poets, there is a time for courage and another for prudence. [[laughs]] He who is intelligent knows how to distinguish them. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes reality goes beyond fiction. They've been a few years worthy of a dizzying script film. A phrase is heard in Lawrence of Arabia in which I really believe: The illusions can be very powerful. So be it. Mr. candidate, luck in the investiture and I wish you boldness and temperance for the exercise of your office, because in this goes the future of all citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u168	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I recognize the difficulty in picking up the witness of an extraordinary Member of Parliament, such as Mr Aitor Esteban. [[Applauds]] He has made a magnificent speech and I think he is pleased that we can meet you who, fortunately, and I would also like to thank you, will vote in favour of our investiture, of my investiture for the Presidency of the Government of Spain. It is comforting that parliamentarianism finds in people like you the temperance, assertiveness and originality also in the approaches of their political positions after what we have heard all morning. I hope that in this legislature we will all copy or draw inspiration from parliamentaryism that personalities like you deploy when they come up to this rostrum, because I believe it will be good not only for the functioning of this House, but certainly for the reconciliation of the street with politics, which is also needed on our part. I will simply try to complement some of the issues you have made in your intervention, probably worse in rhetoric and dialectics. You've started saying that there are twenty-two groups and not nineteen. Well, the important thing is that, as you have rightly commented and as I said in my first speech in the morning, there is indeed a parliamentary majority of the left represented in the Socialist Party and in the United We can, that we have 155 seats, and that is the starting point. It is also true that the elections of 10 November conferred on the right hand an importance on the parliamentary presence in this House and, consequently, we need the People's Party - I hope we can count on the People's Party to forge large consensuses that are important and necessary throughout this parliamentary term - and it is also clear that there is, together with that more ideological representation, another much more plural representation than what was born on 28 April in the territorial sphere. Not only are the classic national parties, but also the traditional nationalist parties for their history, as well as the independence parties, the local and territorial parties and some groups of citizens who have presented themselves for the first time to these elections and obtained parliamentary representation. That is to say, we need not only those great consensuses that transcend the ideological sphere, but also enter into territorial dialogue and territorial disputes find their epicenter, as it is logical, and it has occupied us a great deal of time during this parliamentary day in Catalonia for the urgent, also for the important, no doubt also in the Basque Country for the important that is the challenge, the challenge - and I say it in positive terms not in absolutely negative terms, but positive - that represents the renewal of the Gernika Statute in the Basque Country and that it knows in addition to the will of both the Basque Socialist Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers Party to walk in that renewal that I believe is important. We have talked about it on some other occasion here in the rostrum and we will have the opportunity to do so throughout this legislature. Therefore, dialogue. I want to get into what you said before. It is true that everyone now rejects dialogue on the bench of the right and on the far right of course, but they also criticize dialogue. Today, for example, the spokesman for the Republican Left has said one very important thing, he has said many important things. Republican Left has said very important things this week, but it has said a very important thing. He said they are willing to transcend the dynamics of blocks and to meet the different, the different. And instead of being something that the People's Bank appreciated as a change, as a symptom of making politics useful, of leaving the confrontation behind and opening up a new time, or at least resuming a past time that misses much in Spanish politics and Catalan politics, here the only thing that has been talked about by the right-wing bank has been precisely to continue to open a pit between those we think of in one way or another. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, that is not the spirit of the progressive coalition that we are proposing to this House. We propose dialogue and we also propose the taking of many decisions to be taken by this Executive. The day we presented the government agreement, the progressive coalition agreement, Mr. Iglesias and I in a room of this Congress, I told him one thing that I would like to transfer to you and that goes hand in hand with what Mr. Esteban said earlier. We are very aware that we have 155 seats and therefore we need many more to be able to bring forward many laws that are important to justify the progressive coalition that we are proposing to this House and, consequently, to Spanish society. What do I mean by that? For that law to law, decision to decision, we will have to have a lot of dialogue, and we will have to have dialogue with a plurality of political forces that are represented here and that have all the legitimacy that the ballot boxes have given them in our country. Mr Esteban, I am aware - and we have spoken about it on some other occasion, although it is also true that the circumstances were different, because it was in the previous parliamentary term - that in the final stage after the motion of censure there have been some issues that have not worked quite well in terms of information and the concern, which also has logic, that the Basque Nationalist Party has for the respect of the State for Basque self-government in a much more general autonomic sphere and, consequently, the competences of the autonomous governments and for sharing decisions and having a spirit of teamwork. In that we probably make mistakes, but I can assure you that we will try to amend some of those we have committed over the past parliamentary term. I must also say that over the past few weeks Mr Iglesias and I have spoken a lot, that the parliamentary groups have spoken a lot and that the negotiating committees have spoken a lot. It is true that it is an unprecedented experience in the history of Spanish democracy that we are going to have a coalition government, but I have appreciated - and I would like, Mr Iglesias, if I may, to speak for the two - a sincere, loyal will to have a team functioning within the coalition government, which we hope can be launched from next Tuesday, 7 January. Indeed, we have many challenges ahead and it is true that we must combine prudence and boldness, prudence and courage. It is true that we have to abandon the judicial process, and I have already said that here. It is precisely that we have the judicial situation we have right now in Catalonia that represents nothing but the failure of politics. We have to amend this and, of course, the government that can come out after this debate is going to put on the table everything necessary to return a political crisis to politics. In the economic sphere, I agree with you that we are playing a lot, and more the left. That is an analysis that we share both United Podemos and the Socialist Party. We need to be very clear and very firm in defending the values that define us as progressive, but also be aware of the economic environment that we have: an environment of slowing down global economic growth, of slowing down European economic growth and, consequently, of slowing down Spanish economic growth. It is true that we continue to grow above the European average, but obviously there are investors, there are debt, there are deficits and there are also legal guarantees that we have to guarantee in many areas. In that sense, Mr Esteban, you can count on it. In the field of industry, what to say. We are all awaiting the end of parliamentary term in order to be able to pass the electro-intensive statute, to be able to defend in Europe what I said in my investiture speech, and it is a CO2 border tax to protect, as other major economies protect, their industry. This is something that, in fact, affects territories such as the Basque Country. I have been talking to the Minister of Defence right now and she tells me that we are already in the process of amending the Official Secrets Act, a recurring issue, an issue that you raise every time you have the opportunity to rise to the rostrum. In short, what I have to say to you, Your Honor, is that we are prepared to comply with the Statute of Gernika. There is a set schedule of transfers and we want to keep it; it is true that in some we have fundamental discrepancies with you, but in others we have none. Therefore, I hope and wish, Mr Esteban, that we can walk together at this stage which for me - I have to say - is exciting. In the face of everything that is being said by conservative media and also by the right and right sides, what you want me to say to you, I like these challenges, I like these challenges. I work much better under pressure and so I'm looking forward to getting out on the field and starting playing this game, which I think Spain deserves and needs. Thank you very much for your support and thank you, Madam President and ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u170	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. Mr. Esteban Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u171	Mr President, I thank you for your words, but it is already late - I look at the faces of Members; we have been arguing all day - and we will have an opportunity to have a dialogue at another time. We are all going to try to make it work, to ensure that the agreements are complied with by everyone, and I am left with a sentence that you made in your speech this morning, at the outset. Occasionally, it coincides with the almost mantra that I have been repeating in these last election campaigns: that the solution goes through dialogue, negotiation, agreement. And you said it literally; I fully agree. I hope that all this will work and that for the good - I have said it before and I repeat it again - of all citizens there can be a government and start making determinations and arbitrating solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-04-CD200104.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will continue with the missing parliamentary groups. We'll resume the session at nine in the morning. The meeting was suspended. It was nine thirty-five minutes of the night.
