ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. This plenary session includes the vote on the opinion of the draft organic law on the use of passenger name registration data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crimes. As an organic law, this initiative must be put to a final vote which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Therefore, pursuant to that provision, I announce that the vote will not take place before 14 hours. CONVALIDATION OR DEROGATION OF DECRED LAWS: - REAL DECRETO-LEY 22/2020 OF 16 JUNE, RELATING TO THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COVID-19 FUND AND ESTABLISHING THE RULES RELATING TO THEIR DISTRIBUTION AND FREEDOM. [[File number 130/000023]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u2	We continue with the agenda item for the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 22/2020 of 16 June, regulating the creation of the COVID-19 Fund and laying down rules for its distribution and release, is a matter for debate. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to everyone and everyone. Indeed, I appear in this House to request the validation of this Royal Decree-Law, 22/2020, which was approved by the Council of Ministers on 16 June and by which the COVID-19 Fund was created, establishing the rules for its distribution and release. As your ladies and gentlemen know - because we have had the opportunity to comment on this over the last few weeks - this is a EUR 16 billion fund that will be transferred to the autonomous communities and to cities with autonomous status to deal with the economic and social effects of the pandemic. I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that it is a different architecture in relation to how efforts and burdens should be distributed according to the fiscal consolidation objectives throughout this year 2020, from the conception that it is the autonomous communities that have to provide the most important basic services that are directed at citizens at a time of pandemic, as is, for example, the health service itself. It is, therefore, a question of transferring the calculation of the funds that are understood to be an overrun on the budgets provided by the Autonomous Communities, so that the deficit that is to be generated this year remains in the hands of the State and does not come to undermine the effort to clean up the public accounts that the Autonomous Communities have developed over the past few years. In fact, it is the largest transfer of resources approved by the central government, apart from the autonomous financing system and also from the extraordinary liquidity funds, which, as you will recall, are loans, are not directly transfers or new resources; both mechanisms, as you know, remain fully in place. The fund is extraordinary and the aim is to guarantee the right of all citizens to have quality public services, live where they live and regardless of the political colour of the parties that govern these communities. A fund that the autonomous communities - and it is important to remember - do not have to return. Therefore, it is not about any type of loan, it does not generate interest, it is not necessary to pay any additional expenditure on receipt of the fund and, as I said, it will not increase the debt or the deficit. With this fund, the Government demonstrates that it is fulfilling its commitment not to leave anyone behind in this health crisis and, ultimately, that the Government firmly believes in the State of self-government. The criteria for the distribution, ladies and gentlemen - always conflicting when it comes to distributing resources among asymmetric autonomous communities that each have peculiar characteristics and the legitimate ambition to have the maximum amount of resources available - have been established after a process of dialogue with the autonomous communities themselves and with the political groups represented in this House. I myself have held a number of telematic meetings with the Finance Councillors, both bilateral and multilateral in nature, where the criteria for the distribution of the fund have been moved; suggestions that the Government has been incorporating, as some of them demonstrate in relation to the drafts of the first normative text. For example, we have replaced the population criterion adjusted by the equivalent protected population, a request that demanded different autonomous communities; it has no major impact on distribution, but I was asked to do so. It is a criterion, let us say, more equitable, more fair when it comes to distributing; it is only a health criterion and has therefore been applied in the health sections. Or, for example, the criterion of positive PCRs by total PCRs has been modified to also highlight the tracking work that the autonomous communities are doing, regardless of whether patients are asymptomatic or positive in the diagnosis of the disease. I know that some autonomous communities do not seem to have sufficient resources, I understand - as I said - that each Administration is demanding more resources than they are going to have allocated, and I can also understand that each community is doing a defence of itself, but I believe that all of us here have to pursue the general interest and we have to respond to all these demands without any kind of exclusion from any autonomous community or criteria that are frankly harmful to some part of the territory. And don't ask me to agree, even if we are facing a health crisis of enormous proportions, that the funds are insufficient to meet these needs. I believe that dialogue with communities has been gradually demonstrating that what is right for some is not right for others, and that is why we know that unanimity is impossible in relation to the acceptance of these criteria, or rather with which each community would paint if it were to be that the funds were directed only at its citizens. Therefore, what we have done from the Government is to put above the general interests, the interests of the nation, which is what the figures that we are debating today reflect. The fact that no one identifies one hundred per cent with the distribution model shows that the Government has been guided exclusively by the principles of equity and social justice. The application of these parameters requires that those communities that have been most affected by the pandemic and that have had to cope more with an increase in health expenditure, be those that have mobilized more resources and, therefore, those that are also responsible for the greatest aid under this budget line. I believe that this is the right thing to do and what the Government had to do. That can arouse different sensibilities, especially in those territories that are less affected by the pandemic, but we still have to go through all this year, ladies and gentlemen, until we have a safe vaccine and, therefore, it can even happen that what seems to some communities today to be oversized in relation to health spending, in a few months' time - I hope not! - if they had an impact on the pandemic, they would see it just the other way around, because a balance has been sought so that we can respond to the overexpenditure that has occurred because of this dramatic circumstance that our country has experienced. All the autonomous communities - and I think it is important that they take this into account, ladies and gentlemen - all win; they will all benefit from increased resources and will have better opportunities to meet their needs and therefore to meet the effects of this crisis. With the approval of this fund the State assumes, as I said, that part and covers the full cost of the expenses that have occurred as a result of the fall in income, the increase in the health cost or the increase in the cost of education, as you will see in the distribution of the fund itself. Going into detail, how it is composed, it has four sections and I will try to explain it in a simplified way so as not to complicate the debate. Two first tranches, totalling EUR 9 billion, are directly linked to health expenditure. The third tranche is provided with $2 billion and is earmarked for education expenditure. And the fourth tranche, 5 billion, aims to compensate for this decrease in income, as a result or as a result of the decline in this economic activity. In the allocation of the first tranche, 6 billion, the population protected by the National Health System is weighted at 35%, divided into seven sections of age. This is a classic in the distribution of the resources of the autonomous communities. The equivalent protected population criterion has seven sections because the needs of the population vary if we meet a person who is zero or three years old, a person who is forty years old or a person who is ninety years old. I think it is easy to understand that the pressure on the health system is radically different and, therefore, the system, the model, weighs the costs with the sections that each of these population cohorts has within the overall pyramid that the autonomous community contemplates. There is another 30% of this first tranche that is defined by the number of income that intensive care units have had, 25% by the number of hospitalizations and the remaining 10% by the PCR tests that have been carried out in each community. What is done is to weigh all this data as of April 30th, and you will see that the ICU units are estimated to be more important because they have a higher cost than hospital beds and these are a higher cost than the development of PCR diagnostic tests, which have usually been done in primary care, at least the extraction process, although subsequently they have been processed at the hospital level. For their part, the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla will receive a fixed fund of 12 million euros, although they do not have the transferred competences, as you will remember, in health and education, which are provided directly by the State. This first instalment will be paid in July. It is essential and necessary; the autonomous communities need this added liquidity and also include this revenue forecast in budgetary terms. The second tranche, which is worth 3 billion, is transferred in November and, although it has the same variables as I have just pointed out, the weighting in this second tranche is slightly different. On this occasion, 45% of the total tranche - I insist, 3 billion - is distributed among the autonomous communities in relation to the population. Therefore, we have increased from 35 to 45 % in this second stage, another 25 % is distributed by the number of people in ICUs, 20 % by the number of people in hospital and the remaining 10 % by the PCR tests that have been carried out. The date we take as a reference will be that of October 31st. That's why he said before that some community, if it has a rebound or some alteration in its health data, can see, later, altered the projection he has made. From this second stretch, the cities of Ceuta and Melilla will receive 6 million euros each, as fixed soil. So far the distribution of the 9 billion allocated to health expenditure. I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that the estimates that we are dealing with are that the fund should cover 100% of the expenditure of the autonomous communities, over-expenditure that they had already budgeted to deal with this pandemic and, therefore, with the possible resurgences that may occur. I will then briefly explain to you the allocation of the third tranche, with $2 billion, which is divided according to the criterion of spending on education, which, as you know, is also one of the priorities of this Government and one of the important tasks for children and girls to be able to start school after the summer with all the guarantees of safety that have been given by the health authorities. In the case of these $2 billion, 80% is distributed according to the population aged between zero and sixteen years in 2019, i.e. school-age population. The remaining 20% is allocated to university education, taking into account the population from seventeen to twenty-four years, also in the 2019 cohort. In the case of the cities of Ceuta and Melilla, each €7 million is allocated as part of fixed land. The transfer of these funds will take place in September, coinciding with the start of the school year, so that the separation of pupils, the reinforcement of teaching staff if necessary, the clearance of the distances between the desks or the teleworking and teleeducation programmes that we will have to carry out if the teaching is not 100 per cent in attendance or if the tutoring systems have to be carried out at a distance. Finally, the fourth tranche, 5 billion, is intended to compensate for the drop in collection in the autonomous communities, divided into two blocks. A block of 4200 million, which will take into account the weight of tax collection three years ago - i.e., years 2017, 2018 and 2019 - and, as always, with a population adjustment that usually occurs in all models of income matching. And another block of 800 million exclusively to compensate for the operation of the public transport lines that have had to be maintained despite the confinement and despite the fact that they were circulating without any users using them, with the added cost for the autonomous administrations, due to the difficulty of having a tariff collection like that that which was being carried out in previous years. 4% of this block is reserved for the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands for regular passenger transport services. So far, ladies and gentlemen, the explanation as to how the parameters will be distributed. As you see, it is easily detectable, reproducible and objective so that there is no discretion in producing the distribution of funds. I just want to insist that there is no conditionality on this issue. This means that we will not require justification or accrediting invoice of the expenditure that has occurred in each of these sections, because the decree-law appeals to the responsibility of each autonomous community or city with autonomy status so that they can allocate the resources of the fund primarily for those purposes, although in the exercise of their autonomy they may incorporate them as revenue from their budget to cover the budget hole that might, in principle, have occurred. The Decree-Law also provides that the surplus that the Autonomous Communities have had in previous years may be used this year to finance the deficit and budgetary difficulty that they may experience during 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, I humbly believe that the composition of the decree-law is in keeping with the commitment of this Government to the autonomous communities and to the needs of the citizens, and that this statement that I sometimes make from this rostrum that this Government cares about the problems of the citizens, regardless of which administration has to solve them, local entities or autonomous communities. Therefore, if there is any difficulty, the Government will, to the extent it can, seek to assist, assist and contribute with the resources available to it at that time. Until now, there has never been a possible under-financing approach by the autonomous communities to a crisis that has occurred through this type of transfer of resources, which must be added to the increase of 79 billion that has already occurred at the beginning of the year by updating the deliveries on account. As honourable Members recall, this clean update should not have occurred, as GDP growth in 2020 is about 9%, 9.2% according to the government's forecast. However, resources have been given to the autonomous communities through the financing system, with a growth outlook of 1.6%; that is, they are receiving the collection as if there had been no health crisis and as if it had not involved an economic crisis. It is 7.3% more than in 2019, so in 2020 the autonomous communities have the largest allocation of funding system resources they have had in their history. We have also approved, as you recall, additional items to which this House has agreed: 300 million, at the beginning of the crisis, for urgent actions in health; another 300 million for strengthening social policies; and 25 million for ensuring the food of vulnerable children during this period of closure of educational institutions. In total, an additional €24.5 billion has been made available to the Autonomous Communities compared to the 2019 budget. The Government of Spain has made an unprecedented effort, ladies and gentlemen, in debt, even with its own deficit, to extend these resources to the whole of the territory. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to see this decree-law wide-ranging, because it involves that effort but, above all, it is a relief for all the autonomous communities by not having to make any adjustment in their staff or in the provision of public services at the beginning of the school year. They will start it with absolute tranquility, knowing that discipline and good control of public money must be intrinsic to the management of their own finances. It is an objective fact that all communities will benefit and that this does not admit an interested reading. We have listened to the suggestions of the parliamentary groups and have taken the decision among all that we understood to be more just. I understand that some part of the territory has expectations of having some parameter that will benefit you more, but believe me if I tell you that everything is weighted, that all parameters are balanced so that the whole nation can receive the resources in terms of equity. I conclude my speech by reiterating the request for support for the validation of this royal decree-law. I honestly believe that there are no substantive arguments justifying opposition to this distribution, to this distribution of resources that serves to solve the real needs of the autonomous communities, without asking for any compensation in return. If you ask all the presidents or councillors, you will see that you need them urgently. Therefore, we need to be able to provide an adequate response. I also ask you not to turn this decree-law into a reason for confrontation between the different territories - I think your ladies and gentlemen will not. This benefits the vast majority of Spaniards, who want us to be an example of responsibility and to attend to what equals us, that which allows us to have a safety mattress, at least in matters of health and education, to be all equal in the face of this adversity. The way to do this is by guaranteeing these quality public services, which are as important, as I said, to that equality, no matter where we each live, to whom we vote or what our social characteristics are when we face this unprecedented crisis, with the economic consequences that derive from it. This effort will be well used, ladies and gentlemen, if, at last, people, our citizens, receive quality health services that allow for the timely detection of outbreaks and that allow the isolation of cases that may arise at this time. It will also be well used if it is ensured that the excellent health professionals continue to carry out their work and teachers are incorporated into their school year with all the guarantees that our boys and girls will be able to live a school year with the maximum normal conditions that the current circumstances will allow them. I thank you in advance for your vote in favour. Consider that this decree-law is intended for all people, for all territories. It is a necessary decree and, therefore, I call for a favourable vote for its validation. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u4	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. He has requested the use of the turn against the VOX Parliamentary Group. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mr González Coello of Portugal. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u5	Madam President, good morning. Allow me to begin by asking the Spaniards for forgiveness for the news that another case of corruption has appeared today, in this case, of the Ministry of Transport, rigging the award of road works. It's a shame and that's neither normal nor new. The Royal Decree-Law establishing a COVID-19 Fund, with a budget of EUR 16 billion, is part of the policy of discretion and improvisation that this Government has shown since the health and economic crisis triggered by the pandemic. It is all defined by the absence of a coherent plan to address the immediate demands of the crisis and the measures necessary to overcome it. The social-podemite cabinet is showing a pertinent contumacy in the error. The Government's efforts in the preamble to the Royal Decree-Law to justify the legality and constitutionality of this figure to implement the measures it submits to Parliament, is a non-small excuse, manifest accusation of its habit of subtracting from the normal parliamentary procedure the study and approval of its policies. This is not limited to the field of the economy, but to that of many other areas where exceptionality wants to become a rule. This is the new normality which constitutes a real abnormality on the basis of a parliamentary democracy. Having said that, the royal decree-law starts from an erroneous, if not false, description of reality. It states that the autonomous communities were immersed in a policy of stabilizing their public accounts before COVID-19. According to this approach, this idyllic situation broke down in the face of the pandemic emergency. However, this diagnosis is false. Autonomies, in the last year of economic expansion, in 2019, incurred a deficit of 0.35% of GDP, when the target was 0.1; therefore, far above. This is to make a negative contribution to public finances, just as the central administration did. The increase in the financial imbalance of self-government in 2019 was therefore not due to the incidence of a pandemic that did not exist at the time, but rather to the State's delay in transferring the resources they had committed to them, but also to a very considerable increase in their discretionary expenditure, in particular the remuneration of employees in their public sectors, intermediate consumption and social transfers. As you know, the autonomous communities did not take advantage of the expansive phase of the cycle to put order in their public finances, but to raise their spending, re-entering the path of non-compliance with the stability objectives, as the Government did. Now, they propose not only to increase the financial endowment of the autonomous communities, but to do so without conditionality - and you have said it today in your presentation, without conditionality - by holding them accountable for the transfers that are made being used for the purposes you draw in the preamble to the Royal Decree-Law. Look, we understand that the autonomous communities that had surplus - the forals and the canary - or those that fulfilled the deficit - Madrid, Andalusia and Galicia - were left without conditionality, since they have demonstrated orthodoxy in the management of public funds, but not the rest, mostly socialist, by the way; at best that is the reason. This abandonment of the central Government's responsibility prevents it from having minimal and elementary control over the transparent and efficient use of these resources. It grants de facto and a margin of discretion which is unacceptable in the dynamic of the sharp deterioration of public accounts that the economy will record in 2020 and which will persist, thanks to its policies, in the years ahead; in this they are consistent, renounce any fiscal stability plan and do not condition the use of the resources that they transfer, which is exactly the same as they have tried to do at European level. Of course, we have European partners who, during the expansion phases of the economic cycle, did their homework, and we do not. The lack of rigour and financial responsibility reflected in this royal decree-law is another piece of the chaotic puzzle of its fiscal and budgetary policy, subject to an aimless discretion, marked by ideology, at the absolute margin of the economic reality of Spain. My group has consistently and imperatively insisted on the need to integrate economic, fiscal and budgetary policy actions within a global framework that allows us to know and control from Parliament the action of the Government, the coherence of the means it employs for the purposes it seeks to achieve. This demand, recommendation or request - if you prefer - is not raised by us alone, but by the Governor of the Bank of Spain, among others, when he appeared in Parliament a few weeks ago. Spain needs a fiscal consolidation plan to provide confidence for economic operators to be able to have clear expectations of the government's intentions. This is a basic principle of economic policy and a necessary condition for overcoming the crisis. Restoring trust requires credibility, and you - and it hurts me to tell you, Minister - lack it. First it was Podemos, then you and finally the president of the government who have said with a meridian clarity what their objectives are: to raise taxes to reduce the deficit/public debt binomial. For the time being, they have not explained the precise content of their tax measures in this House, but they have all made it clear that the Spanish fiscal pressure is the same as that which exists in the EU average. We're asking you again what taxes you want to raise and you don't answer. The equalisation which you are seeking, Your Honor, is - you know it well - an increase in taxation of 5% of GDP, in round figures some 63 billion euros long of new collection, and I would like you to say here and now if this is true and, if so, how long you want to implement that initiative and what tax figures you intend to raise. That said, there is no serious economist in the world who recommends tax increases in a recessive phase. There is an overwhelming, undisputed experience that tax increases exacerbate the depressive effects of a recession economy, prolong its duration and have permanent and negative effects on growth and thus on job creation. In an economy that will experience a fall of between 10 and 15 % of GDP this year, which will dramatically raise its levels of public debt, raising taxes is simply nonsense. Where are you going to get the EUR 63 billion from, from families that are going to increase their income and wealth reduction as a result of the crises, from small businesses, from the medium-sized or the large ones, that have not yet become a result of the crisis, or will they, as always, resort to the rich, that group that is expanding more and more as you need more income? This weekend a pastor in Castronuño told me that he had learned that he was rich with the presentation of the income statement. [[Give it up.]] Of course, something will have to be done if they persist in their policy not only to reduce public spending, but to raise it. The Spanish economy has no room to raise taxes. The economy, like physics, has its laws; failing to comply with them all leads us to disaster. If you persist in the mistake of raising taxation to finance your spending plans and your desire to reduce the deficit and public debt, you will achieve the opposite goal. The negative impact on consumption and investment, caused by tax increases, will further lower tax revenues and, consequently, the deficit and debt ratios on GDP will increase. You believe that it is enough to raise taxes to get more; however, you ignore or despise the effects on the incentives of families, businesses and investors when taking such measures. If these are always negative, they are far more accused in a recession. Tell me, Your Honor, in which developed economy has ever succeeded a fiscal policy such as that of your Government; please give me an example. I don't care if you choose a phase of expansion than one of recession, because the answer is one: never anywhere and anywhere has the simultaneous mix of increases in spending and taxes served to boost the economy and correct the financial imbalances of the public sector. Your Government's policy leads not only to maintaining a high fiscal pressure, but to increasing it for a simple reason: the structural components of public spending, which you are increasing with initiatives such as minimum vital income, which has automatic growth, so that you will need to raise them even further in the future, thus increasing expenditure. Not even from the classic Keynesian vision that you defend your proposals are consistent. With your actions you are exacerbating the crisis, prolonging its duration and leading Spain to a fiscal crisis that is only now postponed by the European Central Bank, which is now buying all its debt. Against this backdrop, Your Honor, you will understand how difficult it is to endorse your COVID fund. You appeal to the sense of state to call for the support of the parliamentary forces for their economic, fiscal and budgetary initiatives. You have said here that you have spoken to all political groups; we, Madam Minister, are the third political group in this House and we have not been called by anyone. [[Give it up.]] We would have liked to participate, because we worry Spain so much or more than you, not least, I can guarantee it. Not only that, they don't give a single example. When we have to spend, we agree that we have to spend, but I believe that this royal decree does not like anyone, nobody is happy. We must give whatever it takes to save this situation, not these sections and criteria that you have set, that you do not convince us and we would have liked to discuss with you. But we must also set an example. Let us spend what is necessary, that this may be necessary, I do not discuss it, but let us reduce expenditure. Mr. Rajoy had fourteen ministers; you, twenty-three. You have eighty-one more positions than Mr. Rajoy: Mr. Rajoy had sixty-five advisors and you were one hundred and twenty-six. [[Give it up.]] Between 2019 and 2020, there was an 18% increase in potential staff, a 10% increase in senior positions. Don't you think that unnecessary political spending should be eliminated to meet the real needs of the Spaniards? [[Give it up.]] It does not negotiate with us, it does not ask our opinion, it does not set an example and it appeals to solidarity. It is precisely the sense of state that prevents us from sanctioning with a favorable vote a policy that is unable to address the most serious economic crisis experienced by Spain since the Civil War and that lays the groundwork for a slow and very uncertain recovery. You are not up to the serious economic moment that Spain is experiencing and your policy, dressed in cheap sentimentalism, great phrases and appeals to a consensus that you never exercise, is a sure path towards the consolidation of a very negative, if not miserable, scenario for the Spaniards. Let me finish by reading a sentence from the Journal of Meetings of 30 April in the Finance Committee: 'In an alarm situation there must be a single command. I don't care whether it's a fire, whether it's a health pandemic or a panic attack in the face of a bomb threat. It is defined in literature, manuals and evidence. When an emergency occurs, the first thing all the disaster manuals say is that a single command has to be determined because, if not, a situation can occur not only of disconcerting, but of uncoordination.' Those were his words, and I share them. We are in a state of health and economic alarm and we need a single command. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u6	Thank you, Mr. González. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you, Mrs. Cepeda. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first and foremost Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the setting of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Minister of Finance. In this first validation of the last legislative year approved by the Council of Ministers throughout the state of alarm, the creation of the COVID-19 Fund is regulated by royal decree-law and, as Mrs Montero has explained, the rules concerning its distribution and release are laid down. You stressed that weighting criteria had been applied, and let me say from Forum that we disagree. The EUR 16 billion to compensate for the efforts to address the essential needs arising in the different autonomous communities to address the pandemic health crisis are shared with criteria that are clearly insufficient in the case of Asturias. The consequences on the public accounts in order to correct this unfair distribution will have to be balanced through taxation and Forum does not share that the eloquent follow-up of the Socialists of the FSA towards the policy of Pedro Sánchez will ultimately have an impact on more and more taxes on the citizens, on the Asturians, a community penalized and suffocated by taxation. Ladies and gentlemen, the coronavirus reveals the inequality in the treatment that the Government gives to the Spaniards according to their place of residence, and the distribution of this COVID-19 Fund will come very thinly to Asturias. It is estimated that only 280 out of these 16 billion will be for Asturias, a loss to food both for the criteria chosen by the Government, which are a remedy for the harmful system of autonomous financing, and for the result of servileness made by the Government of the Principality to the policies of Pedro Sánchez. And so the hair looks to us, with a succession of varapalos to which is now added the allocation of this fund, which, Mrs Montero, far from certifying your support for the State of Autonomies, once again believes that for the government there are first and second Spaniards. This discriminatory distribution is a terrible precedent for the urgent reform of the financing system approved by the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero in 2009 and pending reform for six years. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u9	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. I understand that when it comes to distributing a cake between several and uneven parts, it is difficult to please everyone. In the case of this fund we can discuss the chosen criteria and the weight assigned to each one, but we understand that solidarity is paramount. Since Cantabria, we have always argued that the criterion that must prevail is equality between the Spanish and, therefore, the financing of the actual cost of basic public services. And in this case too. Not the criterion of the number of inhabitants, but the satisfaction of the needs of all, live where they live. This has been assumed by all groups in this House. Well, for Cantabria in this background this criterion has not been met. I can't go into details here, I'm just going to set an example. The distribution of the share of the education fund is done exclusively according to the school population, without taking into account any other factor, nor dispersion of the population or orography or anything else, as in the general system. Did you know, for example, that the cost of school transport in Cantabria is practically the same as in Madrid, which has ten times the population? This is a very bad omen for other key sectors. Our expectations with this fund have been falling at every step that was being known. Leaving aside that it is insufficient, the first estimate with the three blocks - the health, the social and the fall of the collection - assumed us, approximately 192 million. Then, by separating education and transportation, we go to 181, which is 11 million less, this is already a lot for a small community like Cantabria. But we still have to calculate the second phase and the meeting of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, where we already know the correlation of political forces today. He paints badly for now and makes us fear much for the future of Cantabria. That is why we can only vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Finally, Mr García Adanero has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The truth is that the self-congratulation of the members of the Government I thought was limited to a few, but it seems to be somewhat extensible to the members of the entire Government with whom one is encountering. You come out here to say how well all things have been done and that the Spanish people as a whole must be delighted that - look at you - today we will give you EUR 16 billion so that you can meet your needs. The EUR 16 billion is money from all the Spaniards that will be distributed to all the Spaniards. Of course! But it's not like that, it's just that a part of those Spaniards, because the Foral Community of Navarre is still Spanish and we feel Spanish - I don't know if it's that in those conversations they have with some independenceists so often they're already convincing them that we're not; but yes, we're still Spanish - they leave us out of a part of the bottom. We are therefore no longer distributing EUR 16 billion among all the Spaniards, we are already leaving out part of it, in particular out of EUR 5 billion to the Navarra Foral Community. Yeah, I don't have a minister, because he's left out. They say, "No, they'll be in debt, we'll let them be in debt." We're talking about money from the set to distribute the set. Therefore, I believe that less self-congratulation, more understanding of what is happening and, above all, taking into account that this money - I insist - is of all people, it is not of the Government. It's money that goes to things, to health, to education, that affect us all. Different communities have commented on how it affects each and the Government is proud of the distribution, but of course it is not sharing in an equitable way. In that sense, it seems that we have gone from being a privileged community for some, including the minister, to having an outlaw regime to being evicted from part of the distribution that is made. In addition, I believe that they must have taken advantage of this decree for something very important: to give satisfaction to all the municipalities of Spain. It is not normal for this distribution to be made, that many municipalities in Spain have the money of the citizens in the bank and cannot meet the needs of those citizens because the Government does not leave them. And he's not taking advantage of it today. That can't be. Families are being cared for in all the municipalities of Spain, the municipalities are being indebted when they have money in the bank and the Government does not leave them. Take advantage of this decree today so that the citizens of all Spain can benefit from the money they have been saving through their municipalities over the years. Many municipalities, small municipalities, large municipalities, of all kinds, are taking care of a lot of people in the front line and the government is closing the door on them and not letting them spend that money, because the government prefers to advertise, to come here and tell us that it is giving us all the Spanish 16 billion, which are obviously contributions from all the Spaniards and not money that the government takes from where. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u12	Thank you, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, you were asking us in your speech for broad-sightedness. I will not fail to acknowledge that I feel like a lapoon in the Italian Parliament with the subject you have brought in and with the format you have chosen for the distribution of these resources. I will give you two general considerations and then I will go into this matter and explain why I feel so alien to this debate that is being raised or why Euskal Herria Bildu feels that way. The first general consideration: it is clear that EUR 16 billion in the public sector is an important effort, no one denies it, but it is also clear - and this is not negligible or of course not something to be overlooked - that it is insufficient because the size of the crisis is much greater than those EUR 16 billion, it is of such calibre that this fund does not become a patch for the first blow, and what worries us is that we do not see continuity. The second issue, associated with this one, is that such measures do not have any meaning or can have a very pernicious and nothing positive meaning, beyond being a light patch, if they are not accompanied by tax measures. We have presented them from this rostrum on more than one occasion, we have expressed to them the need to generate a new taxation in the Spanish State that was more equidistributive, that sought more fiscal justice and that, therefore, not only pursued tax evasion and avoidance, but also that it imposed more on higher incomes. And here let me make a letter. Today we have heard an unusual case, that of a Castronuño pastor who, according to his statement, is rich; he does not know very well how to manage his money, but must be rich because he has a good flock of sheep. It's hard to understand that if you don't know how to manage your money, you might even have some sheep. But in any case, we continue to insist that whoever has the most has to pay. From here I will tell you what are the particular considerations our group makes. We have many doubts as to how these EUR 16 billion will be distributed and we do not come here - as others have done, on a legitimate basis - to ask whether we think much or little of what it gives our autonomous community, because we do not see them. It seems to us that it raises an intangible, it does not raise any horizon for us to be able to point out whether it is sufficient or insufficient, but it raises a sort of question of faith, of dogma of faith, that is, it will be negotiated, it will be seen. And that's what it does with the Basque Autonomous Community and the Foral Community of Navarre. Conclusion for the citizens of the Foral Community of Nafarroa and the Basque Autonomous Community: that, for the moment, they will not see a hard one and that will then be seen. That is the reading that can be done and not another. I'm sorry I can't make another reading, but we don't see it. Because in any case they will not see a hard one to minimize the impact that the health crisis has also caused on citizenship in social and economic terms, nor will they see a hard one to compensate for the fall of the collection that will obviously occur. You have pointed out that all the autonomous communities would benefit, but here, as has already been pointed out, there are neither the Foral Community of Nafarroa nor the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country beyond that: it will be negotiated. Because it also says this: The participation of the CAV and Nafarroa will be established in the mixed commissions of the concert and the economic agreement. That's the reading. In football terms, one kick forward and buy time. Nothing is established, except for the negotiation, a negotiation that we also know that, from our point of view, always ends up settling accounts in favour of the State and never in favour of the Autonomous Communities. That is not the reality, because that fixed percentage which we are being paid does not meet the evolution of our societies, does not, for example, meet the evolution or the fall in the weight of the GDP of our community, in the case of the Basque Autonomous Community, with regard to the weight of the State, nor does it of course attend to the demographic evolution of our society, which, as you will know, is not a different evolution from that of the inverted pyramid. Since this is how you keep the percentage of contribution that the autonomous communities - both Basque and Navarra - have to make, in the end it turns out that we pay more than we would have to pay if we were within that common system. I also think it is fair to point out that this initiative has little or nothing to do with - and I would like to be able to tell you that this is the case with Mr de UPN - that they accept the national sovereignty of our country. I wish it was that way. I would go up to this rostrum to say that we are willing to bear the cost of the pandemic because we are sovereign and ready to take the chestnuts out of the fire and rise, as our people have done once and a thousand times and as they will continue to do. But I am afraid that no, I am afraid that what they will ask us is that we continue to contribute and they will ask us as the only possible tool for deficit and debt, never to diminish and never to compensate, through the tools that were granted to us by the Economic Concert and the Navarro Convention. As I said, if we always lose, little can satisfy us this measure, especially - and this is also an old claim that we have been pointing out since Euskal Herria - if we are made to contribute in a finalist way to destinations that little or nothing can please Basque society. I won't talk about the monarchy, I won't talk about the defense, I won't talk about the Interior, but it's just that we also contribute to those boxes of the General Budgets of the State, when the reality is that our desires and our inclinations - I would even dare say that those of the majority of Basque society - have little or nothing to do with it. I will sum it up very easily, you, for the moment, ask us that Basques and Navarros do not receive a hard one, which will then be seen what and how it is negotiated in the joint commissions, but that we do not forget to pay either the quota or the Navarra convention as soon as possible and as the Spanish State says. We think it's amazing. I can also tell you more clearly: you are asking us that we have to get the chestnuts out of the fire and manage them alone and that we are not going to get a hard one and that then, if that, we will see. If this is so, it would be fair for the Spanish State not to receive a hard part of the contributions that we are forced to make, and so we would be talking about co-oberanism, co-government, even shared sovereignty; but I fear, as I said, that this is not the case, for our grief and for sure that for the joy of some other group. But we are not insolidary with the popular classes of the Spanish State, it seems to us that mechanisms should be put in place, so I have spoken to you before the need for public initiatives like these, associated with fiscal initiatives or fiscal reform, such as those that I have proposed to you, but none of that we see; today we see something very different from this and that has little to do with a fair formula. If you want us to participate, let's talk; and if you want us to participate, let's negotiate a fair formula that allows us to respond to the needs of the popular classes of the Spanish State without aggravating the gap between rich and poor, which is being made quite big every day, but do not force us to vote with closed eyes initiatives that we don't know where they're going to take us. In any case, according to what the groups supporting the Government say, we will see the meaning of our vote. Finally, as you always say that I am a little abrupt at the end of the speeches because I almost do not say goodbye, I thank all of you for your attention, also to the former jury of La Voz, today avid reader; I do not know what book you will be reading, but if it were anything related to the autonomous elections of the Basque Autonomous Community, I will spoil you: the result was more or less that Euskal Herria Bildu drew four and a half times more representatives than the People's Party. [[Rumors.]] Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u14	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Quiet, please. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u15	Thank you, President. Egun on. Today, the Royal Decree-Law 22/2020, which regulates the creation of the 16 billion COVID Fund, lays down the relative rules for its distribution and release, is being validated. A royal decree, minister, that does not respect the system of Economic Concert or the Navarro Convention, does not take them into account and, of course, does not solve the participation of the outside communities in the four sections of the fund. The distribution of three sections of the fund is imposed unilaterally and we are excluded from the fourth without taking into account the particular financial relationship of the outlaw communities with the State, a bilateral relationship between Governments. This issue should therefore have been addressed bilaterally by the participation of the Basque Autonomous Community and Navarre in the fund, and this has been missed, Minister. If, as the explanatory statement expressly states, these are additional and independent resources from the autonomous financing system and from the extraordinary liquidity funds, the autonomous communities not integrated into the common autonomous financing system, i.e. the foral, should be included in the fund in its four tranches, and their participation and distribution should, as I have said, be in line with their particular formula of financial relationship with the State, and this has not happened. On the one hand, they leave us out of section 4 - to which I shall then refer - and with regard to sections 1, 2 and 3, although the first additional provision of the Royal Decree states that the participation of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and the Foral Community of Navarre in these three sections will be established respectively in the Joint Committee on Economic Concert and in the Coordinating Committee of the Economic Convention, the fact is that there has been no commission either to establish the criteria for participation in the fund or to fix its amount. Moreover, they unilaterally impose their distribution and quantification, since it is in article 2.2 itself of the decree establishing, and I quote literally: that the amount of the tranche to be distributed among the autonomous communities of common system will be the result of a reduction of the amount of the same the resources allocated to the cities with autonomy status and the participation of the communities of foral regime, which will be determined according to the criteria set out in the preceding paragraphs, which speak of population, number of tests, hospital income. What does this mean? That the referral they make to the Joint Commission is for purely formal purposes only, to cover the file, because, I repeat, there has not been such a meeting, there has been no commission to assess those criteria and, where appropriate, their discussion and possible adoption, which has certainly distorted the role that the Law on Concertation assigns to the Joint Commission, whose sign of identity is the bilateral adoption of the agreements. You have therefore overlooked the peaceful way that should have been used to fix Basque and Navarra participation in this fund. It should also be added that the outlying communities of Euskadi and Navarra are surprisingly leaving us out of Stage 4, a stretch based on the reduction of income from the fall in economic activity, when, according to the explanatory statement, on the one hand, the resources of this fund, as I said earlier, are supposed to be additional and independent of the financing system, and on the other hand, they do so under the excuse that the outlying tax systems are not homologable to the rest. Indeed, it is a rather fallacious motivation, since neither the criteria for distribution, where there are transfers even for the decrease in transport revenues, nor the destinations of the fund, are distinguishable according to tax systems. An exclusion from section 4, set out in the second paragraph of the first additional provision, which, in addition to contradicting the financial logic and the very principles contained in the explanatory statement, is adopted without the slightest specific motivation in this royal decree-law. In addition, they refer us to the assumption of budget deficits and public debt issuance to compensate for this non-financing and the fall in collection, both of which must again be agreed for the case of the Basque Autonomous Community within the Joint Committee on Economic Concert and which, Minister, do not want to reconsider, despite the fact that Europe has activated the escape clause and the existence of a compromise for the holding of the commission in the first half of the year. It is paradoxical, Minister, that we are offered a solution to compensate for non-financing and the fall in collection through debt and deficit and, in turn, we are denied such a solution, since the committee is not convened to discuss and agree that this new path should be adjusted and realistic with this fall in collection. I also remind you that the outside communities, of course, have done all their duties, have complied with all the rules and I also remind you that both the AIReF and the Banco de España do not agree with the forecast of the fall in revenues that you have achieved. In another matter, this decision imposed by the first additional provision of the decree to extend section 4, that is, the resolution of tax revenues and public transportation of travellers to terms of deficit of public debt, in addition to condemning the two communities, both Basque and Navarra, to endure an added difficulty for the correct compliance of the rule of expenditure, obvious another burden that is imposed on Euskadi. If we take account of the regulation of Article 52.2 of the Economic Agreement and Article 4.3 of the quota methodology, as well as the provision for financing this COVID fund through public debt through Article 3 of this Royal Decree, it will also be for the Community of Euskadi to contribute in a concrete and specific way to the payment of the debt amortisation quotas corresponding to the amount of EUR 5 billion in tranche 4, from which we have been unjustly and incomprehensiblely excluded, and must also assume its own debt for this same purpose. They exclude us from the fund, but, in turn, they tell us to assume part of their payment. Listen, if we don't participate, at least they should exempt us from paying the interest and that amortization. Then some will come and tell us that we are insolidarians. Finally, minister, this fund tries to give an oxygen balloon on time, a short-term measure, but we understand that it is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow, because the real problems for the autonomous communities of common system and local entities will come in 2021 and 2022, when there is no such extraordinary fund and they have a drop in collection due to the deliveries on account, which then will adjust to the real fall in income. Therefore, in view of these factors and also taking into account that the collection has fallen and that all administrations are going to have to rethink their accounts, their budgets, and they are going to need to borrow to increase expenditure and deal with the consequences of COVID, it is necessary to rethink new deficit and debt targets and to assume the need for a relaxation of fiscal rules and, in particular, the expenditure rule. We have fiscal targets for 2020 that have been exceeded, there are no real targets for 2020 and we do not know those for 2021. Of course, it is necessary to activate the escape clause for all those autonomous communities, parliaments and municipalities that are largely healthy in relation to financial stability. We are asking for a temporary relaxation of fiscal stability policies to generate resources for the exit from the crisis arising from the COVID, to allow local entities to use the surplus or remaining treasury, to be able to make the necessary investments to alleviate the effects of the economic crisis, to allow local entities and autonomous communities to be exempted from compliance with the expenditure rule during the years 2020 and 2021. The autonomous communities must be allowed greater flexibility in terms of deficit and indebtedness and, in the medium term, the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability should be amended in terms of expenditure rules, which their group and also the Group of Podemos have claimed so many times, but which now seems to have been forgotten. This would be a real oxygen balloon. Of course, our group cannot support this decree in this regard. Why? Because it seriously attacks the correct bilateral relationship between the Autonomous Community of Euskadi and the State requiring the Basque Economic Concert system, as well as the unjust and doubly incorrect and unjustified exclusion of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi from its participation in the distribution of tranche 4 of that extraordinary fund relating to the decrease of revenues due to the fall of economic activity, both in its aspect of tax collection...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u16	Mrs. Sagastizabal, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u17	I'm finishing up. ... as financing of public passenger transport, and for having to assume the added burden of having to pay the interest amortization of the debt issue in order to finance a fund from which we are partly excluded. Minister, you adopted the mantra of agreement and dialogue, so apply it. The unilaterality employed in this royal decree is not the way. Of course, if this is going to be your behavior, don't count on us. He said that this fund gives solution to the autonomous communities, but, of course, not to the outlying communities. He said that there are no strong arguments for not supporting it, but I believe that, in the case of both the Basque Autonomous Community and the Foral Community of Navarre, the arguments we have given today are strong and silent. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u19	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, before this very serious crisis of the COVID19 this government has already failed the autonomous communities by ceasing to enter a party whose name I do not want to remember today. And that I don't want to remember today doesn't mean that in Citizens we forget, because we will keep reminding the government that it failed us and that it stopped us entering a very important game, and here we all know what I mean. We are emerging from an unprecedented health crisis with economic repercussions for workers, entrepreneurs and companies that have not yet shown their true face. Unfortunately, we are still fighting the COVID19 and, after many months, we see that there are still rebounds and that the economic situation of many Spaniards continues to worsen. Many have received the help of this Government, but not all, because there are still many citizens who do not have support measures to resume their day-to-day activities before the first state of alarm. Today comes the validation of this royal decree, which is an oxygen balloon for the autonomous communities that have suffered so much from the economic impact of extraordinary health expenses and the virtually total paralysis of their economies. On 16 June, the Council of Ministers adopted this royal decree regulating the creation of a non-refundable COVID19 fund of EUR 16 billion, which the State will transfer - it will not give, it will not give, because it is money from all Spaniards - to the autonomous communities in order to meet the expenses associated with this crisis. This royal decree has not been exempt from changes of opinion and decision - some more than to add to that long list of corrections - but it finally sees the light and comes in the vast majority to the needs of the different autonomous communities that had to complain for the Government to rethink it; it is certainly now welcome. Generally speaking, we believe that it is good news to create this non-refundable fund to help the Autonomous Communities to alleviate the costs associated with COVID. In addition, we believe that the criteria for distribution are reasonable, although everyone can never be satisfied. We believe it is a good idea to have put the concrete departure of educational expenses, which was not raised in its first draft, so that it can serve to hire more people and more teachers and to enable new spaces that allow our children to return to the classroom in September with all the guarantees. But, Minister, in September? In September it may be too late. We need to plan. The Autonomous Communities have made an important effort to ensure the continuity of education during all these months, which will be relieved by this extraordinary budget line. However, we will have to see how this money is used, since it is unconditioned items. We will have to be vigilant to the destination of these funds. Will the students of the concert hall stay out of these aids? It is clear that this economic effort for education right now is very important, but we are really concerned about Minister Celaá's non-planning for the return to our children's school. Even today, two months from now, there is no safe plan for the return to classrooms in September. In addition, during these months of uncertainty about the near future of our children's education, we have witnessed the bandits of this Government in this matter. There is no sensible or serious plan that serves the whole of Spain and gives peace of mind to parents and teachers. We can sum up by saying that the management of the educational crisis has been defined by chaos, and with the decision to delay this aid until September we confirm it; digital education has not worked, because there is still a significant digital gap that leads to inequality; the pursuit of special education has led to enormous criticism between the sectors and the people concerned; there is a lack of funding for reinforcement plans and a lack of a plan for the case of a rebound; there is an ideological sectarianism that leads to leaving out the public aid to the concerted, and endless misconceptions that only show that it will be our children who pay them. For what the Ministry of Education has had time in the midst of all this has been to continue with its education law, which also lacks the consensus of the educational community and the different parliamentary groups. Let us hope that the transfer of this item to education will be a first step in moving forward in sensible measures for the return to school of the students of our country. In addition, 48 billion have been allocated to boost the economy in the autonomous communities and compensate for losses due to lack of collection. We believe that in order to alleviate this lack of collection, more measures must be put in place in parallel with this fund, which will help decisively the recovery of our economy. Citizens proposed in the Reconstruction Commission a very comprehensive document with 108 concrete measures to bet on recovery as quickly as possible and a large list of amendments to improve the draft government. Unfortunately, the Commission's draft conclusions, at least as far as the economic side is concerned, are extremely imprecise, not very specific: they do not address real solutions to the problems raised and are not concrete. We believe that it is essential to adopt measures to help drive our industry, to boost our business sector, by removing obstacles to growth, productivity and the promotion of entrepreneurship, and to R & D. We need plans for our tourism to be consolidated and can continue to grow. We need to avoid tax increases, but we need to create a lot more businesses. What about Europe's funds? Are we sure the funds we really need will come in? In short, we must welcome the provision of this fund, but the Government must not lose sight of how badly affected our economy has been and how difficult it will be to rebuild it if ambitious measures are not taken to address the devastating economic consequences that we have suffered. This is a first step, but we need to keep our economy running so that our autonomous communities continue to have uncommitted revenue increases. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u20	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Beyond considering that this fund is insufficient to address the magnitude of this crisis, I would like to recall that, even when the Government announced the state of alarm, the BNG called for a fair distribution criterion to be set that would meet the characteristics and needs of Galicia. It wasn't like that. In this decree, the Government once again ignores the diverse and plurinational reality of the State and the fact that nations like Galicia have their own distinct characteristics. In our case, elements such as population dispersion, ageing and dependency rates are an increase, and thus added difficulties, in meeting and providing basic services to the population, especially in the health and care fields, or in education, which are precisely the most affected by this crisis. That is why we have always argued that these were criteria that, necessarily, had to be taken into account in a specific way and with a relevant weight. However, the distribution criteria finally adopted by the Government were disappointing and, once again, constituted an aggravation and unfair treatment for Galicia. Interestingly, those autonomous communities that have had the highest number of cases receive the highest proportion of resources - two, 40% - without meeting the real cost of patient care in either case. They will therefore understand that in no way can we vote in favour of this decree, because again we do not take into account the characteristics and needs of Galicia, and it also seriously harms our country, as is happening, by the way, with the current funding model, which would necessarily have to be changed and immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you so much. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u23	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, despite the last discharges we have had, I tell you that we will support your decree. [[Mrs. Lastra Fernández: Good!]] In short, we are going to support it because there has been a change in criteria in line with what we were defending: that the population should have a greater weight. We could probably have avoided someone else if we had had greater bargaining capacity. We will also vote in favour because we understand that it is good that there is an educational endowment in the way it has been distributed. But we have some 'buts', which we will now put to the vote, although we insist that we vote in favour. Our 'but' is that it is not the same as the starting situation in health spending from one autonomous community to another, although we have not had so many affected. There are autonomous communities that can celebrate that they will be able to spend their surplus, as you have said. We would already like others to be able to spend our surplus, or we would even like to be able to be discussing also a tax system such as the Basque concert or the Navarro convention. As for transportation, you have spoken of the nation's interests. From Compromís we see that the distribution that has been made in the transport for us is not fair. That is to say, Madrid and Catalonia, which account for 30% of the population, will allocate 62% of the resources. Those are not, I believe, the interests of the whole nation, because we all travel and have public transport. For example, in the Valencian case, 10.6% of the population will only have 5% of the resources, when the same transport is needed in Madrid, Barcelona or Valencia. Finally, I would like to insist that we welcome the authorization to spend the surplus, although some of us would like to have a surplus in order to be able to spend. We hope that in November - as the President said - you will present that skeleton of the new financing system, and we will celebrate that next year we can have a financing system that will at least allow us to get closer to being able to spend that surplus that some will be able to spend now, and that others, of course, cannot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u24	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you, Mrs. Cepeda. Also for the Plural Parliamentary Group, and lastly, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u25	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, he was asking us for responsibility and our group is going to be responsible. We have been responsible throughout many of these royal decree-laws, because although in some we disagree, we have also supported them. We're going to support this royal decree-law because it's necessary though it's not enough, and you're conscious. You have come up here, to the rostrum, and you have said that with these 16 billion they will cover the costs that the autonomous communities are taking on, and you know that is not true; they will not cover the costs. The 9 billion will not cover the extra cost of health, nor will they cover the underfunding of health prior to this pandemic, nor will they cover the 5 billion reduction in the income of the autonomous communities, as well as of these 5 billion, the 800 million dedicated to public transport will not cover the revenues that have stopped collecting metropolitan transport entities or urban and interurban public transport companies, and you are aware of that. We are not here to discuss whether the criteria for distribution are one or the other. Catalonia will receive more than 3000 of that 16 billion, but this is not going to solve the financial problem of Catalonia generated only by the pandemic. You know that in the metropolitan entity of the transport of Barcelona the deficit that has been generated is about 800 million euros, therefore, the 200 and peak that will be able to touch us of these 800 will be absolutely insufficient. So here's our first question. Minister, when it is believed that the autonomous communities are going to have a health expenditure of more than EUR 9 billion, that they are going to have a revenue loss of more than EUR 5 billion, will the government act? Because, Madam Minister, it is not acceptable that you say right now that with these 16 billion the autonomous communities will have to cover their previous deficit target, because that is not realistic. We all know that we are here and all our fellow citizens know that. Therefore, Minister, change the deficit targets and be realistic, because they are not going to be met by any autonomous community and they are going to create a problem of financing, of treasury, for each of the autonomous communities. You said that it is 29 billion that have anticipated or generated the autonomous communities. These 16 billion are completely lost, but the deliveries on account means that today they give them to us, but tomorrow they will not give them to us, and therefore the resources are exactly the same. We will therefore vote in favour, but we clearly denounce the inadequacy of these resources. And I will devote the last thirty seconds of this speech, Minister, to reflecting on it in relation to local corporations. Today we are talking about autonomous communities, but in the trench of this whole fight against the pandemic are the councillors, are the mayors, are the local corporations, and these today nothing has been solved. We're going to make you a request, and when I say this I use a global plural. The whole House next week - except the Socialist Party if it does not reflect and joins the vote - will vote in favour of the municipalities being able to dispose freely of the remaining treasury and the application of surpluses, without that conditioning their budgetary stability or the spending rule for 2020 and 2021. That the House will vote unanimously that the spending rule does not apply to local corporations in 2020 and 2021, would have to make them think. Minister, respect - it is the same as the FEMP is asking - the will of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u26	Mr. Bel, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u27	I'm finishing up, Madam President. They respect the will of local corporations because they are not asking for more deficit, they are asking to be able to apply the savings generated during the last few years for the fight against the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u28	Thank you, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u29	Thank you, President. Deputies and deputies, good morning. We are debating the Royal Decree establishing a COVID-19 fund for the fight against the pandemic and the crisis resulting from it. We welcome, Minister, that these funds are a direct transfer and do not entail further indebtedness, as it could not otherwise be, and so we sent them to the Parliamentary Committee. However, for the Catalan countries as a whole, we believe that the distribution could have been better done, in a more efficient and realistic way. In the case of Catalonia there are certain changes in the volume and in the criteria for the distribution of the health section, between what was announced at first and what has ended up materializing, with which we do not agree. And we do not agree, not by whim, but because if the purpose of these funds is to alleviate the effects of the pandemic, the indicators that made direct reference to the impact of the pandemic, such as the number of PCRs, hospitalizations and ICU revenues, should not be reduced by their percentage of total funds. Generally speaking, we understand that the criteria for the distribution of these funds are not beneficial for Catalonia. Our proposal is that these funds should have been consistent with the impact of the pandemic, which has been very diverse throughout the territory, and not using some criteria such as population. As far as the Balearic Islands are concerned - we have already amended it in the first royal decree - we believe that the official population figures resulting from the revision of the municipal standard on 1 January of this year should be established for the purposes of the population calculation as reference data, or, failing that, the most up-to-date possible, because, as we have already commented, they are data that do not sufficiently conform to reality. For the funds corresponding to the Valencià Country we would like to object that the distribution of the section corresponding to the loss of income should include the tax on inheritance and donations, since it must be remembered that it is one of the taxes that causes the most unfair competition by communities like Madrid. This would help to increase revenue in those communities that do, to the detriment of those that exercise fiscal dumping, and thus contribute to a fairer and more efficient distribution of resources. On the other hand, Minister, we must eliminate once and for all the asphyxiating and centrifuging deficit targets and austere standards such as the spending ceiling. They did not make any sense so far, and they do not do so now, and even more so in the current context, when consensus, and at the level of Europe as a whole, is that expansionary economic policies are more necessary than ever. However, this debate inevitably reveals the need to increase the amount of public resources to alleviate the increase in public spending, because these funds are very well unconditioned, but we know that they will not be enough. You have said that they will be in your intervention, but they will not be because they are only patches of an outdated and inefficient model that we have long denounced. At the moment, we call on the progressive government to push left-wing policies, to carry out a progressive tax reform that pays the most: taxes on big fortunes, taxes on banking, taxes on transactions that engrave contracts resulting from high-frequency operations, more resources for the fight against tax fraud and the tax avoidance of big fortunes and companies. Yesterday we knew that Inditex paid 70% of its taxes outside Spain in 2019. This is not patriotism. It is also worth exploring ways of rationalizing public spending, for example, by reducing the budget for the army and for the purchase of arms. We proposed in the Commission for Reconstruction to reduce the Ministry of Defence's budget by 40% in three years, and a few days ago, through a written reply from the Government to a question from my fellow Member Joan Josep Nuet, we knew that the Spanish State had financed for the last few years with 12 710 million euros to Spanish arms manufacturing companies, money that is still pending to be returned, and that today thirteen projects of arms manufacturing companies worth 17 600 million are being financed. It seems to us a real scandal and a shame that today billions of euros are destined to manufacture weapons in a state that is suffering the worst crisis in recent decades and where public administrations are suffering to try to provide basic health and education services to its citizens. And we could also talk about the hundreds of millions of public euros destined for the Spanish monarchy in recent years, an anachronistic institution, stained and sprinkled by cases of corruption, of transfers for love to tax havens, with suitcases full of banknotes and cash counting machines in Zarzuela. It would therefore also be possible to cut public contributions to the monarchy. In fact, we as Republicans and Independenceists would not have a public euro. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u30	Thank you, Mr. Margall. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Arab Emirates.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u31	Thank you, President. Allow me to begin by expressing our solidarity with the comrades of Esquerra Republicana, CUP and Junts per Catalunya. Yesterday we learned that members of their parties and even the Speaker of the Parliament were spied on by the same sewers that we have been denouncing for a long time. I think it is good news that yesterday we agreed on eight formations, that we were able to put ahead what united us, and not what separated us, to denounce those criminal practices that undermine democracy, because, as President Azaña said, no policy can be based on the will to eliminate or neutralize the political adversary. [[applause]] Secondly and already entering into today's debate, what is at stake with this decree is not the differences between territories, as some territorial spokespersons have said in their fight for the piece of cake; what is at stake is the welfare state and the autonomous state. Like the former railway triangles, this decree sets out the historical direction by which this Government wants to move towards a solution to the crisis in social terms and in line with the transversal consensus of society. The EUR 16 billion we approved today is the largest direct transfer of money to the territories that has ever been made. There are no precedents in the history of Spain, and they are unconditioned, interest-free funds, and amount to more than three times the budget of ministries such as Education or Health. That is to fulfil the constitutional mandate to defend the general interest and development of the autonomous state in a plurinational country like ours. And unlike the previous crisis, when the People's Party refocused and drained the resources of the communities, which, as you know, have these powers, there are now no cuts or privatizations. This decree supports public health and its professionals in the fight against the pandemic and, therefore, supports the autonomous state and the welfare state. You can do more, no doubt, but you've never done so much. As stated in his last book Xavier Domènech, the historian and former Member of this House, the policies of cuts during the Rajoy era went from the top down, from the troika or the Central Bank to the states and from the center to the periphery, from the central State to the autonomous communities, from a centralist and neoliberal vision. That was so obvious that even the Financial Times recognized it in 2012, and even accused the People's Party of using the crisis as an excuse to blow up an autonomous system that its party - and I quote it textually - ideologically hates. And it is that you pointed to the disdainful pact of 78, but you never believed in the modernization and decentralization of the state. For this reason, they carry in their electoral programme the halting of the transfer of new transfers to the territories or now require them to remove competences such as education. In truth, you declared war on the welfare state and the autonomous state at the same time. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, more can be done, of course, but it has never been done so much. Minister, in spite of that, I don't think we can stay there. Firstly, we must work on a new autonomous financing model that strengthens autonomous self-government and is supportive between the different territories. Because, Minister, Spain's territorial problem is not called Catalonia, Spain's territorial problem is called Madrid and fiscal dumping. That is the real territorial problem of Spain, the insolidity of the Community of Madrid. [[Give it up.]] Secondly, Madam Minister, we need a second wave of decentralization, and that is to be committed to the will of this House, to the political majority of this House, which, as you know, approved in the Committee on Reconstruction an amendment to break the financial blockade that Mr Montoro had installed against the municipalities so that they could not access their surplus, their savings. I believe that we must fulfil that mandate, with the mandate of this House, and allow the municipalities to access their savings, and even to be able to be indebted to those who, like the Barcelona City Council, have the healthy coffers. That is what their mayors, the socialist mayors, like the majority of mayors in the big cities, such as Seville or Barcelona itself, demand. If in the European Union they aim to make the deficit, direct transfers and the suspension of the Stability Pact more flexible, that should also be possible for the municipalities. What applies to Europe must also apply to the nearest administrations. Today it is precisely information that appears that you propose to the Federation of Municipalities to spend part of the surplus. That, of course, is a step, it is a step that alleviates the finances of the municipalities, but it is an insufficient step, because, basically, what they are proposing is a loan from the municipalities to the state, which the municipalities make as a bank of the state. You plan to return 35% in 2020 and 2021 and the rest in ten years, and in addition conditionally. That's not what the municipalities need. And it's not an ideological issue, it's a question of justice and effectiveness. Minister, those of us who come from the local world and have had responsibilities of government know how indispensable it is at very difficult times to give immediate response to citizens and how this response always comes in the first instance from the social services of the municipalities. The new normality must not be that the municipalities are refinanced by the sale of public land or by urban balls, as already announced by the Government of Ayuso in the Community of Madrid. The new normality requires strengthening local funding with state funds but also with European funds. The municipalities - and I conclude, President - are the spearhead of social progress, of the environmental and cultural progress of society; the first trench, the first dam of containment in this crisis, the main lever of democratic change. That is why, when the municipalities are financially drowned, democracy is also drowned. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u32	Thank you, Mr. Asens. [[Pause.-The rostrum is disinfected by a cleaning worker.]] Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Rodríguez Herrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u33	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the rostrum to establish our position in the validation of the royal decree-law, which makes the number twenty-two this year. Behind this validation there are three others - you already go for the number twenty-five -, we almost go out at one a week. In relation to its content, to begin my intervention I will make two reflections. The first is that it seems to us a missed opportunity to not accept the possibility of transferring part of the funds to the 2021 financial year, at least those relating to education. By the way, in the Ministry of Education they are telling the advisors of the branch that they are for the entire course, for the two exercises, and this will not be legally possible. Anyway, by the end of the year, he has time to fix it, because he has all the logic. The second reflection is that of the unconditionality of the funds that will be sent to the autonomous communities and cities with autonomy status. This is a matter that is clearly reflected in the text - you have said it, Minister - the text that we validate today, which was adopted by the Government on 16 June and which, surprisingly, has been the subject of controversy in the Reconstruction Commission. The truth is that his party's position on that Commission, just a few days after approving what they approved, is difficult to understand. This morning we have heard a few things about the matter of this royal decree-law, and also other things that had nothing to do with it, but the truth is that with it they fulfill an obligation; a little late, but it is fulfilled. When there is a catastrophe - and the pandemic has been - the government must take care of it. We have other examples territorially located in Spain in other years, and that is what is being done with this royal decree-law. That is, on the other hand, what we are calling for from Europe these days, for the European reconstruction fund to be more favourable to the countries most affected; although it is financed with indebtedness from all the Member States, ultimately by its financing, it is linked to the Community budget. Madam Minister, you have fulfilled your obligation and that is why we are going to support you, but your duties have not ended. You, who come out on the press conference of the Council of Ministers as a spokesman is a specialist in placing obligations on others, especially on us, have a lot to do. Firstly, before calling for agreements to approve budgets, it must draw them up. What they approved yesterday is not enough. It must work with the Ministry of Economy and present its foundations, in accordance with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact signed in Europe. We already know that by 2021 the escape clause will still be active, but 2022 is right there and the calculations must be credible. If we fail to meet our obligations, how are we going to demand support? Look at what Mark Rutte, Prime Minister of the Netherlands, said on Monday: that we should start by solving our problems internally, and not put all our hopes in being solved by others. Spain, Minister, needs transparency in its public accounts, and we are a little short of that. Then don't miss what some people say. The Secretary of State for Budgets and Expenditure has not appeared before the Commission to report on budgetary developments in everything we have in the legislature, nor in the other, even if it is special. And the recommendation we made in the Commission for Reconstruction regarding the submission of an online fiscal consolidation path as soon as possible, as requested by the Governor of the Banco de España, was described as ideological and rejected. Well, he refused, like everything else in the area of economic revival, without the slightest glimpse of rapprochement. The truth, Minister, I don't know how you don't get blushed when Tuesday after Tuesday and sometimes Friday also demands what we are asking for, so that then your boss, the President of the Government, says the opposite in an Italian newspaper: that with us you neither remember nor intend to agree. Anyway. AIReF has been the last body to review the growth estimate downwards for this year, and earlier the Bank of Spain, the European Commission, the OECD. To get out of this, Spain needs to grow, change the trend of truth. We are told that we will not reach the pre-crisis levels until the end of 2022, and employment is not known, and for that it is essential that you agree with fiscal policy, that you take it seriously, that you use this powerful economic policy tool in your two streams of income and expenditure to generate growth and create employment, to restore confidence and credibility in Spain, so as not to generate suspicions in many of our partners in the European Union, so that we do not give this asymmetrical recovery, not in our V, but in relation to the neighbours, in relation to other countries, which we are talking about these days, that we will again separate from them. Thus, a part of these problems will be solved, the accounts - already done before - can be squared, but also the problems of many Spaniards will be solved, favoring their autonomy - not working with subsidies -, allowing them to look with hope at their future, ensuring the recovery of suspensions. In this regard, when do you intend to convene the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council? The ideal would have been for this body to discuss, at least something, the distribution of the fund subject to this royal decree-law, as another participant has said before. Perhaps we would also have talked about the settlement of VAT, does that sound familiar to you? It wasn't like that. However, their call is urgent, as the autonomous communities need the Government's forecasts to meet their budgetary obligations, to plan 2021, which is not going to be an easy year; they need their deficit scenarios, including their own escape clause; they need to take action, preparing to continue providing basic services: health, education, social assistance to all their citizens. This is also urgent and within your competence. And, of course, the Council's call is also urgent because the reform of the financing model of the autonomous communities, which produces so many differences between Spaniards, must be undertaken. He was born unbalanced and has been further unbalanced over time. The distribution of this fund itself has caused these differences to be claimed again - they have been claimed here this morning - in regions such as Murcia, for example, which are suffering from a clear funding deficit. I'm done. This has been done, although we could have saved ourselves part of the debate, by the changes in the distribution criteria, which have not satisfied many. However, as I was saying, we are waiting to see if what remains to be done, and within a relatively short time, it does so reasonably; if not, do not count on us, minister, for us to sign accession contracts. Agreements are not good because they are agreements, but because of what is agreed, because of their content. Take it, please, into account for the future. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u35	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is facing the greatest known health crisis. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to haunt us. The impact of the virus is uneven, but the challenge it poses is global and shared. The complexity of the moment is indisputable, and the answers to this situation more than ever need to be shared as well. And that's what the government gets with the royal decree-law that today brings to its validation, manages to give a joint and determined response to the difficult financial situation that the autonomous communities and cities, on which the worst effects of the pandemic, are suffering. And this is because I remind you that it is the autonomous communities that are responsible for health, education and social services, services that constitute most of the welfare state and that are being clearly affected by the effects of this crisis. They face higher health and public health costs and have lower incomes due to the fall in economic activity caused by the containment measures. This is a joint response, because it is the result of the central government's dialogue with the various autonomous governments. This is demonstrated by the various conferences of presidents held, at which this fund was announced for the first time, and is also the result of the talks held by the minister with the autonomous councillors. No one has been wanted to be left out, nor is there any intention to be left out. It has been a determined response, concrete in the creation of an exceptional, just and appropriate fund for the autonomous State in which we live and share, with which to strengthen and strengthen the fundamental public services, which are being essential in the face of the health crisis so that citizens can be served with guarantees anywhere in the State; a fund that is undoubtedly a historic milestone in our country, a crucial fact, not only because of the amount of EUR 16 billion but also because of its own characteristics, since, first of all, it is the largest transfer of resources approved for all autonomous communities and cities outside the financing system, which provides them with greater liquidity. Secondly, they are non-reimbursable transfers, rather than loans, so they do not have to repay these amounts, they will not generate any more debt or interest, giving them more credit. And, third, they are non-conditional resources that are made available to communities to provide them with stability and decision-making, adaptation and response to adversities. Faced with this, we are not surprised that VOX stands out and asks for the vote against, because this fund, without a doubt, is a bet decided by our shared state model in the Spanish Constitution and differs radically from the VOX model. For you - we have already heard -, unique command? We defend a shared model. While with this fund we intend to strengthen the autonomous state and ensure that the attention to citizens is not resented, the VOX Group intends to weaken it in order to make it disappear, suppressing all the normative and management capacities of the communities themselves, an objective that reflects its own electoral programme and that is a reflection of its defence of the vote against this royal decree-law. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, their disqualifying attitude detracts from them as the only method of opposition they have, and their position against them takes them further away from the feasible solutions for citizens. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you have spoken of many things, but what is clear is that the government is defending the interests of all, because this royal decree-law is the result of a great work, an intense work presided over by the common interest to achieve shared solutions. Our most sincere congratulations to all those who have contributed to making it possible to give an immediate response to the pernicious effects of the crisis by COVID on autonomous public accounts, because, without a doubt, in unprecedented and unexpected situations, we must support extraordinary and unprecedented measures, and this fund is. We all, absolutely all lose with the pandemic, and with this fund we aim to support all communities on the basis of realistic and transparent criteria. The criteria can always be questioned, they are never to everyone's liking, but this can never be the cause for the vote against the validation of this royal decree-law that allows communities to transfer extraordinary funds. These are new resources distributed over four tranches: two, as the minister explained very well, reach €9 billion on the basis of the criterion associated with health expenditure and aim to cover the impact of the pandemic over different time periods; a third tranche is €2 billion on the basis of the school-age population, highlighting the importance of education. The pandemic has exposed the unequal capacity to adapt to digital transformation, and different communities have had and will have to face significant expenditures and investments in education to alleviate these weaknesses and reduce the unequal capacity to respond to adversity, and care for the most vulnerable children is essential. And finally, the incorporation of a last tranche with EUR 5 billion to deal with the lower collection by autonomous taxes derived from economic activity. Nor is the actual decree-law of two important issues forgotten: first, to allow, on an exceptional basis, the communities with surpluses in previous years and still to be implemented, to cover the financing needs caused by the pandemic and, second, to allow a reserve of 800 million to deal with the budgetary impact in the field of public transport. It is true that the measures never seem sufficient to us. The needs are many and the resources limited, but certainly with this royal decree-law all the communities benefit by being able to have resources with which they did not count a priori, and this, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be voted against. [[Give it up.]] In short, we are approving the creation of a fund that is of all and for all autonomous communities and cities and in which the general interest prevails. Our priority is to give people attention to the need, and that is why the Socialists will vote yes, convinced that it is a good measure, necessary, transparent and with objective, reasonable and reasoned criteria of distribution, because in the face of extraordinarily adverse situations, and this is so, it is the responsibility of all and achieve shared, exceptional and urgent solutions. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, out of responsibility and loyalty to the citizenry, let us do our best and vote together. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Blanquer. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 23/2020, OF 23 JUNE, APPROVING ENERGY MEASURES AND OTHER AREAS FOR ECONOMIC REACTIVATION. [[File number 130/000024]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u37	We turn to the following item on the agenda: Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 23/2020 of 23 June, approving energy and other measures for economic recovery. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u38	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I come to this House this morning to request the validation of Royal Decree-Law 23/2020 and to propose to you that those measures which you consider desirable be amended, comments or improvements, be passed as amendments to the Bill on Climate Change and Energy Transition, since the vast majority of the contents of this Royal Decree-Law, to which I invite you today, coincide with proposals included by the Government in the Bill on Climate Change and Energy Transition referred last May to this House. The obvious question that you will most likely ask yourself is why adopt a real decree-law like this if the vast majority of its contents had been included in the climate change bill. The answer is simple: because, being issues included and proposals mature, urgent and essential, the uncertainty of the crisis and the need to position ourselves in the face of recovery forced us to act quickly and to generate and facilitate a predictable framework of actions that ensures an attractive and reliable context for investment, activating one of the most productive levers for employment and recovery; the sooner the better structured and the better oriented the better. And it is urgent to reactivate the economy and promote employment generation with measures that maximize the tractor effect of some of the key sectors of our economy, those that have, as few as they do, in the field of energy transition, a return to employment and value added for each euro invested; those that allow us to accelerate a sustained recovery over time, resilient to the challenges facing our country and our economy in the coming years and decades. Yesterday, from this very rostrum, he pointed out that there is a general consensus, both at national and international level, in which investment measures in ecological transition, digitisation and, in particular, in the energy sector, in energy innovation, are and must be the basis for recovery. If we are committed to the reactivation of the economy, to the generation of employment, to the ability to offer proposals that are attractive to investors and companies sustained over time, of quality, that are not threatened by new demands, that prepare our country to maintain competitiveness in the coming years, it is essential to align the stimulus of our economy with medium- and long-term commitments and trends. Fortunately, the economic and industrial sectors of our country are well prepared for this challenge. For example, in renewable energy Spain manufactures 90% of the necessary components for wind turbines and more than 60% of the necessary components in the operation of solar energy projects. In electrification and efficiency, up to 90% of equipment and power electronics goods are manufactured domestically, making us particularly competitive in electric vehicle charging infrastructure or network digitisation. In other words, it is not just green electrons, but we are talking about industry, employment, the key value chain in key sectors for the global economy as a whole. Something similar happens with the construction sector, able to reorient itself towards the energy rehabilitation of whole buildings and neighborhoods, with beneficial effects for neighbors and the country's economy; or with mobility, vehicles and components or infrastructures for sustainable and connected mobility, which Spain must lead. These are the sectors that are included as protagonists in the Commission's recovery proposal with regard to the funds that could eventually help us at European level. And another good news: fortunately, Spain does not start from scratch in the face of this challenge, but has a Strategic Framework for Energy and Climate that combines job creation, economic modernization and the opportunity to lead industrial value chains, as in the renewables sector, as I have just explained. It is an indispensable framework not only to meet the European energy and climate objectives, but also to set a clear path for the private sector to direct its investments and anticipate the financial and business challenges ahead. The Strategic Energy and Climate Framework and, in particular, the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan are, to a large extent, a guiding guide to investment decisions, which offers solvency and credibility, trust and interest, a key tool to support decision-making. Far from questioning the objectives or postponing them, the current situation requires us to identify those lines with the greatest potential on employment and the economy and anticipate or advance their implementation in the face of the reconstruction strategy. This forces us to act in at least two major directions. On the one hand, it is urgent to activate the regulatory framework that stimulates private investment, generates industrial demand and boosts innovation and the development of new business models that will enable us to remain leading in sectors with a future. This is the main objective of the royal decree-law that I present and that represents a significant leap in the road map towards the objectives of modernization of our economy and our industry. But we must also strengthen support for essential investments in energy efficiency, renewable energy, sustainable mobility and innovation in order to activate these sectors immediately and prepare the productive economy for the challenges ahead. This is the context in which it is possible to place the support for the industrial transformation proposed by the Plan Moves, of efficient electric and sustainable mobility, endowed with 100 million euros, the calls for renewable energy in island territories, the line of aid for energy rehabilitation in buildings, endowed initially with 300 million euros, or the new programme of aid for innovative renewables, endowed with another 300 million euros. And it is particularly urgent, ladies and gentlemen, to activate and guide economic activity in order to allow us to effectively absorb the possible European reactivation funds, designed and designed to facilitate the ecological transition and digital transformation. So, let me emphasize the significance of this decree-law, which is intended to be the exit box for significant investments in renewables, electrification and energy efficiency. I would like to briefly present to you from this rostrum their content, structured into four large blocks, accompanied by some additional measures which I will also introduce. The first of these blocks is intended to enhance the rapid and orderly development of renewable energies. The second is the drive for new business figures and models, which will allow us to adapt our legislation to the European framework and to the new possibilities of the sector. The third is the promotion of energy efficiency, making the National Energy Efficiency Fund more flexible. And, the fourth, the maintenance of the economic activity of the companies guaranteeing their liquidity. In addition, the Royal Decree-Law includes a series of sectoral reactivation measures, led by the Ministries of Finance, Transport, Public Service, Economic Affairs and Science and Innovation, aligned with the necessary change of direction. In the energy field, the first of the four blocks, seeks the rapid and orderly development of renewable energies, as he pointed out. This block responds to multiple requests and concerns that have been calling for these measures, to ensure proper deployment, orderly deployment, of renewables in our country. We are in the take-off decade; a new industrial revolution that Spain is ready to lead, taking advantage of all its benefits in all economic activities and trade balance. The Government has proposed a road map for this deployment in the next decade, through the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan, in which we estimate that between 2021 and 2030, some 60 000 megawatts of renewable energy will be installed, involving investments of more than €90 billion and generating between 107 000 and 135 000 net jobs over the decade. In 2030, we set ourselves the target of three quarters of the electricity we consume being of clean origin; and before 2050, our electricity system must be 100% renewable. It is a sector that is ready to grow and lead the lead in green recovery, and for that it needs certainty and stability. One essential measure was to put a stop to speculative movements in the system, which make it difficult for real projects to be completed and add unjustified cost overruns that would eventually be transferred to the consumer when, in the absence of a specific, adequate and modernised regulation on access and connection to the networks for evacuation, we found ourselves with an avalanche in the permits for connection to the electricity networks; an avalanche considered already a bubble by many, which forces us to establish a calendar of five milestones that every promoter must fulfil in order to complete the whole cycle without speculation ending up charging the consumer's bill. The aim is to resolve an exponential growth in applications and to update the system of access and connection authorizations, in the absence - as I said - of adequate regulation. The delay in taking these provisions would have led to increased costs and the halting of advanced generation projects which, due to the unavailability of an access point, could not have been carried out. On the other hand, the growth of speculative permits would have led to uncertainties about the actual evolution of innovation investment with regard to the ability to have real industrial support; an artificial and preventable increase that would have led to costs in the construction of new power plants which, as I said, ultimately would have paid for electricity consumers. For this reason, the decree-law lays the foundations for a structural reform in the criteria of access and connection to transport and distribution networks, in line with the new times in which it is no longer a few large companies that request such permits, but an infinite number of actors who have the capacity to develop projects. Secondly, the Royal Decree-Law activates a new auction system. The current model, of 2013, was thought, conceived, at a time when generating 1 kilowatt hour renewable cost more than the price that was then sold on the market, but the current situation is just the opposite and this is excellent news. It is urgent that we have a system that replaces the previous framework of premiums with a new system that offers the promoter a long-term energy price that, in fact, will be cheaper than the market in the case of the most consolidated technologies, such as wind and photovoltaic. This system will enable the consumer to be transferred immediately, directly, to the savings involved in producing renewable energy and, in addition, these new renewable auctions guarantee the predictability and stability of income needed by investors, thus favouring that promoters of all sizes can participate in the deployment on equal terms and thus promote employment and economic activity, as well as the industrial demand for the equipment needed to be able to build these plants. The second block of this decree-law incorporates into the Spanish legal system new business models that will be key in the energy transition and that from now on offer opportunities for economic drive, employment and improvement of competitiveness. He said: we need to be prepared for new demands and new opportunities. For example, some new figures are introduced into the Electricity Act. For example, storage, which will allow to manage and optimize the energy generated in new renewable plants and decrease what was traditionally called backup power. Hybridization, which makes it possible to combine various technologies in the same installation. In addition, in compliance with Community legislation, the figure of the independent aggregator is incorporated, introducing more dynamism into the electricity market. And to promote citizen participation and energy transition, renewable energy communities are regulated, allowing citizens and local authorities to be partners in renewable energy projects in their localities. We also want to welcome and learn from innovative initiatives, lead risk-free innovative and disruptive proposals. For this reason, the Government is empowered to regulate a special procedure for the authorisation of installations whose main purpose is R & D & i in this field, and it is possible to establish regulatory test banks, sandboxes, to introduce novelties, exceptions or regulatory safeguards that help to facilitate research and innovation in the field of the electricity sector, something key, fundamental, to attract new quality investments, pointers, to our country. In short, this second block seeks to make the Spanish electricity system more dynamic, more agile, more innovative, more attractive, so that national and international companies invest in innovation, new solutions and business models that generate high value added and long-distance activity and employment. In short, the amendments to Act No. 24/2013 of 26 December 2013 seek to remove regulatory barriers that impede or impede the development of new business models, technological innovation and the massive deployment of renewables, minimizing economic and environmental costs. The third major block of this decree-law is the one on the boost of energy efficiency. The National Energy Efficiency Fund is extended to 2030 and the procedure for calculating obligations is improved. Thus, we guarantee the continuity of a fundamental tool to facilitate investments in efficiency over the next decade and to meet the objectives of the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan. Finally, in the last block, concerning the energy sector, and in view of the effects that COVID-19 has generated, some measures are included to ensure the liquidity of the electricity system - to which the surplus that was achieved last year will be injected - and to accompany some agents in the sector, such as SMEs marketing. These measures allow our electrical system not to be out of step at the time the demand is reactivated, while maintaining an intensive employment and tractor activity of the power equipment and electronics industry with a high share of domestic manufacturing supply. The Decree-Law also contains additional urgent measures related to the change of the energy model. For example, it makes it easier for the electro-intensive industry to benefit from savings from renewable energy, thereby improving its competitiveness. In particular, a fund is created through the Spanish Export Credit Insurance Company, Cesce, which will offer public coverage to long-term contracts that the electro-intensive industry signs with renewable generation plants. In addition, new steps are being taken to ensure that renewable projects reach areas where coal power plants are being shut down, which are no longer economically sustainable, but need to be able to offer alternatives to their population and regions and ensure a fair transition from this energy process. Or a specific measure to accompany the 100% renewable islands project, in this case allowing IDAE to call for aid for solar photovoltaic energy in the Canary Islands, the SolCan call, which this year has 20 million euros. In addition, new steps are being taken to ensure that renewable projects can also be one of the realities that drive or accompany the promotion of electric mobility. This is an important development, the promotion of electric mobility, which will require the necessary infrastructure to create ultra-fast charging stations on roads, motorways and motorways. Therefore, the Decree-Law introduces the declaration of public utility of this type of infrastructure associated with this new type of supplies. Or increase the deduction in corporation tax for technological innovation activities of production processes in the value chain of the automotive industry, encouraging investment in innovation in this type of process in this industrial sector. Or the authorisation to allocate part of the 2019 local authority surplus for fleet renewal with low-emission vehicles and charging points on their public roads. Moreover, the decree-law includes the extension of the transitional period of adaptation to the anonymous companies of management of harbour stoves; the liquidation of the railway canon and the flexibility of the tenants of the commercial premises located in the railway stations; the release of the frequency band 694-790 megahertz, that is, the so-called second digital dividend; the extension of the authorizations for the execution of the offer of public employment and the processes of stabilization of temporary employment after the crisis; the reform of the Law of Science, Technology and Innovation to facilitate the public co-financing of international programs of R+D+i, and some measures relating to the health control of international passengers in ports and airports. All of these measures, as justified, are necessary and urgent in order to continue to deepen the process of economic recovery that our country demands and which this Government is addressing and driving. Therefore, I ask the House to validate this royal decree-law in accordance with article 86 of the Constitution, trusting that the parliamentary groups will support it in view of the significance of the actions it understands, knowing that, especially in the field of energy transition, this is an important step on a long, complex but full of opportunities and that it is worth exploring to offer and assure us a better future. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u39	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first and foremost Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the setting of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Madam Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. During the debate on the entire draft law on climate change and energy transition held in yesterday's session, and in its presence, I disproved some arguments that I think reproduced to reject today the validation of this royal decree-law that consolidates the disastrous energy policy that began to develop in June 2018, following the investiture of Pedro Sánchez via motion of censure. Ladies and gentlemen, as a matter of curiosity, it is worth highlighting this royal decree-law which, of course, gives priority to propaganda; nothing less than twenty-nine pages of the text that Mrs Ribera has just defended devotes themselves to the car bomb, that is to say to justify the demand for the measures that the Government has been implementing in terms of energy and in other areas for economic recovery. Congratulations to the authors of the publication, but it doesn't click. With a push lever and a fair transition, nothing at all. As a Member of Parliament for Asturias I am a first-hand witness to the effects that the frantic energy policy of the government of unknown progress has had on the basins condemned to desertification after the closure of the mining wells; on the metallurgical and steel industry, which last year, before the coronavirus, lost 5000 jobs; on the socio-economic consequences of the irresponsible closures without alternative of the power generation thermal power plants - by the way, today another is announced, the closure of the Soto de Ribera thermal power plant - in fulfilling its own commitments to standardize the energy costs of the industry to that of its European competitors, etc. Thus, I will vote against the validation of this royal decree-law which is more of the same and deepens the measures that are causing so much harm to the employment, the economy and the immediate future of the Spaniards, who today, as two years ago, continue to pay the highest price of the light of the European Union. Every day we find a fine example of the consequences of a radical and run-down policy that is dismantling a substantial part of our productive fabric. Today, energy measures destroy employment in Spain in the name of decarbonisation and promote it in France, Germany, Morocco or China. The government contributes 0% to climate change on the planet and 100% to the ruin of Spain. Never count on the Forum vote. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u41	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you, Mrs. Cepeda. Mr Gimeno has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u42	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 30 June, i.e. fifteen days ago, the thermal power plant in Andorra was finally closed in Teruel, without a just transition agreement or a fair transition that would recover the lost employment; recover the lost GDP for the province by about 10%; recover a whole region that expects a new and encouraging future in the energy transition. We positively appreciate the step taken with this royal decree. We understand, as the minister has said, that it is an advance of the most urgent measures that could then be contemplated by the climate change law and we value the speeding up of the deadlines, that there should be an energy transformation as a tool to get out of the crisis, that it should be legislated so that Spain can move forward in the renewable energy sector and reach a pointy place. However, we miss a number of aspects that we forget and that for us are very transcendental. Firstly, we believe that the transition in what affects us most, which is the transition from traditional sectors to new energies, to renewable energies, must prevent the extractive nature of these technologies. We cannot allow the implementation of the solar or wind power to continue in the territory as an extractive element, as happened with coal, iron, other materials or other raw materials. To this end, we believe that a series of measures should be taken to equate or assimilate this new activity with other activities that generate market economy. For us, for example, it is not enough for a company or an investor to agree with the owner of the soil to be able to generate a wind or solar project. Not only are we talking about the value of soil, there are a number of public social values, such as the sun, the wind, the natural heritage that are everyone's heritage and that should be valued. We believe that it is acting too lightly, looking for a simple canon, a simple canon that, by the way, was appealed by the companies, although the Supreme Court has given reason and has verified that a canon that affects these activities can be placed for the benefit of the territorial development of the peoples in which they are located. We believe that we should go to a concept very similar to that practiced in urban planning, a technical-legal concept that remembers what are the objective exploits and what are the subjective exploits, which can be appropriated by the investor and which must remain for the territory. In other countries we are talking about infinitely higher percentages than here we are talking about impact on the territory; we are talking about countries where 25% of the benefit goes to the territory or countries where 33% of the benefit goes to the territory. We believe that we must walk in that direction and regulate, once and for all, so that this, indeed, is a process of energy transformation that gives opportunities for development to the field on which it is based. Because if not, we will be repeating the same vice that has happened so far, we will be implementing in the rural environment activities that do not want the cities and intended only to supply them with energy. That cannot be the case, we must seize this opportunity to generate competitive development throughout the territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u43	Thank you, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you, Mrs. Cepeda. Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u44	Good morning again. Thank you very much, Madam President. This decree-law is what can be called a missed opportunity and it will not be because this government has not been told by this House. On 16 June, a non-energy bill was adopted here, which is not reflected in this decree. We can understand that it did not give them time to include it in this text, but the subject had already come from ancient times. Nor have you taken advantage of the numerous decree-laws you have been passing, the last one last week. Finally, although there are positive things in this decree-law, yet they have left the small wind turbines dissatisfied and left the electro-intensive industry totally dissatisfied. The issue is serious and truly urgent, more than many other issues that have been adopted in these months. Without the interruptibility - which still does not call the auctions for the second half of the year 2020 while still in force in France, Germany and Portugal -, without the compensation of CO2, the energy differential in Spain with respect to the countries of our environment at the moment will be insurmountable and has a very serious risk of relocation of the Spanish basic industry. They still do not approve the electro-intensive status and we do not know whether they will address the allegations of Cantabria, Asturias and Galicia. If the industry was already suffering a serious crisis with closures like Sniace, Alcoa, Nissan, etc., we have had to add the pandemic catastrophe. In this sector the consequences are forever. Here it is fulfilled the exceptional urgency and necessity of the decree-laws. In addition, in this decree-law you have included an article on the surplus of local entities that goes against the opinion of the majority of this House. In Royal Decree-Law 11 they included a clause on the use of the surplus totally insufficient, with the protest of all the municipalities of Spain. On May 20, I asked him again about the matter and now include only 7% of the 2017 surplus to buy electric cars, which most municipalities don't need at all. I say the same as in the matter of energy, they have had fifteen more decree-laws in which their null will has been seen. They still disdain everyone without any convincing explanation. I do not know whether they are going to be able to commit themselves today to something concrete that can make us vote in favour of validation, because we have already seen that this government is making a small case of this House, even when it approves it with the support of its parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u45	Thank you, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you, Mrs. Cepeda. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u46	Thank you, President. Advance you, Minister, that we will vote in favour of Royal Decree-Law 23/2020, which is being debated here today. A decree that, in addition, we understand that it has adopted a large percentage of the contents of the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act, whose full debate took place yesterday in this House; a decree that is positive for us and that we highlight the following aspects: it seeks to resolve the bubble of access requests, reduce speculation in the processing of new points of connection and, in addition, establish more concrete and restrictive deadlines for the processing of access permits. Technology auctions with location criteria are envisaged, and for us this is important, for example, for biomass generation projects. The Royal Decree 1955/2000 regulating the activities of transport, distribution, marketing, supply and authorization of electrical energy installations to expedite processing is also amended, as maximum response times are set for public service administrations, agencies or undertakings or for services of general interest. New subjects are created within the electricity sector: holders of storage facilities, independent aggregators and renewable energy communities, with which we understand that a new electricity market will certainly be promoted. The previously stored energy storage and pouring activity is regularly integrated, a measure that we understand will help this marriage between supply and demand. The decree favours the establishment of ultra-fast charging points and also provides for the establishment of regulatory testing banks in which pilot projects are developed to facilitate research and innovation in the field of electricity, a measure that we of course believe can be good above all to cover projects such as Iremel. As regards the remuneration of cogeneration, waste and biomass, in order to mitigate the impact of COVID on the cogeneration industry, an extraordinary revision of the remuneration parameters of cogeneration, waste and biomass is approved to reflect the actual market price value and the price of CO2 during the state of alarm. A measure that is positive, but here we do want to refocus on the necessary revision of cogeneration, so that a new regulatory framework can be established as a measure of efficiency and industrial competitiveness. There are some other measures that can give us some doubt. For example, the central administration's competence is to authorise electrical infrastructure associated with charging stations for electric vehicles of more than 250 kilowatts, which exceed the territorial scope of the autonomous communities, and in this regard it is difficult for us to think a little about what these charging infrastructures may exceed that territorial scope. We also understand that, perhaps, too much space is being given to the Council of Ministers, which could modify specific aspects of transport network development plans, when the construction of certain installations is critical for the energy transition and the electrification of the economy and these are not covered by the current planning instrument. In addition, the recharging facilities of more than 250 kilowatts are equated with transport, distribution, production and direct lines, and it seems excessive to us, although it leaves the door open for the competent public administration to establish that they are not subject to prior administrative authorizations. On the other hand, although the real decree has increased the investment limit of the distribution from 0.13% to 0.14% of GDP, this fixed increase may not have been expected. The Pniec indicates that 22.5 billion investment in distribution networks is required and, with the limits set, only 14.5 billion is required, so the investment will have to be increased by a greater percentage, and it is the limit that we believe will not allow the networks to be put in the state at the level required by the Pniec for the new renewable, distributed and digital electricity system. This limit should perhaps be reconsidered, modified and increased by a larger percentage. And then without having anything to do with the energy issue, there are a number of other measures, such as rents for different use of housing, OPEs, temporary employment stabilization processes, which of course seem right to us. Despite all these nuances, as I said at the beginning, we are going to vote in favour of the Royal Decree-Law and we believe that it is not necessary to process it as a bill, since the amendments that may be raised may be included in the Climate Change Act, which is open until September, in order not to duplicate procedures and not overstep this Royal Decree with the law. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u48	Thank you, President. Good morning again. Yesterday in this same plenary we discussed the amendment tabled by VOX of the return of the Climate Change Act. The vast majority of political forces from this rostrum advocate the need to have a legal framework in this area of action, since it is important that legal certainty exists for the most affected sectors, such as industry and energy, which are perhaps the most in need. As I said yesterday on behalf of Citizens, this law that brings the Government to this House needs a great deal of improvement, in addition to consensus in its handling, given the scope of the matter. At the same time, the Government approves the Royal Decree-Law 23/2020, which comes to Congress today for validation, and from here I would like to ask you a question, Madam Vice-President: do you really believe that the matter that we are debating today for its importance, for the effect it will have on industry and the necessary consensus for its approval deserves to come through the Royal Decree-Law? In this text we find essentially a series of legal changes in different laws, enabling the Government to carry out various actions within the framework of the energy transition. Paradoxically, the text is based on its raison d'être in establishing an attractive and true framework for the investments required for this transition, which is not compatible with the change of rank of law through the instrument of the royal decree-law vis-à-vis a draft ordinary law. In this way, the Royal Decree-Law establishes some amendments to the Electricity Sector Act of 2013, one of the most important, if not the most important, pieces of Spain's current energy regulation and one of the most comprehensive and profound texts in the Spanish legislative sphere. The first of these changes seeks to regulate the existing problem with the points of access and connection to the electricity network, which has led to a speculative bubble with these elements in the electricity sector, which in turn has led to an environment of insecurity and lack of progress in the field of the installation of new renewable infrastructures. The Government, based on this royal decree-law, creates four different treatments for the holders of these assets, reflecting the important regulatory change that is taking place. The following amendment concerns the method of introducing renewable energy with the support of the special scheme through competitive competition methods, i.e. renewable auctions. The text empowers the Government to establish new auctions for the introduction of these energies into the energy mix by allowing them to operate more variables than those established by the 2013 law in relation to technology, the variable to be auctioned or economic support. The Royal Decree also introduces new figures on the 2013 text to include new elements resulting from technological improvement. In order to promote electric mobility, it is also stipulated that those charging stations with a power of more than 250 kilowatts will be granted the declaration of public utility. Another notable element is the reform of the National Energy Efficiency Fund, which was established under a law-class rule, Law 18/2014, on the adoption of urgent measures for growth, competitiveness and efficiency. This reform makes it possible to extend its time limit, which is nearing completion, and to adapt to the calculation procedure of the persons bound. [[The Lord]] Nor should elements such as the first additional provision, which relates essentially to system planning, be omitted, since it operates on the capacities of the connecting nodes of those power plants which cease to operate. Also noteworthy is the transformation and adaptation of the Institute for the Restructuring of Coal Mining and Alternative Development of Mining Districts, established by Law 66/1997. Finally, the text makes it possible to make use of the accumulated surplus of the electricity sector in past years to compensate for the deficit, although it is true that it is not clear that this amount is sufficient to compensate for the imbalance that occurs this year. In fact, the text does not raise any major elements of conflict, although it does cast some doubt primarily on the auction model, which is detailed by a royal decree without parliamentary procedure. However, the excessive and unjustified use of decrees, which is used on this occasion and which deprive Parliament of some of its functions of control and legislation and the actors in the sector themselves of solid and desirable legal certainty, is reprehensible. Our parliamentary group will abstain in the vote for the validation of this royal decree for the reasons I have commented on, and it does so alone and exclusively by thinking about the industry because it has been transferred to us and communicated by the professionals to all who have wanted to listen to them. Changes are needed that improve everything related to energy because currently industry and consumers bear very high energy costs. For the industry they are practically insufferable. And we will not request that it be treated as a bill because we understand that different consumers will not be benefited by the parallel processing of this royal decree as a bill and the Climate Change Act that could coincide over time. I would like to end by asking the Government and the parties that support it to work with opposition parties with the real intention of seeking consensus in the process of the Climate Change Act, because from Citizens we will present amendments for all the matters that are intended to be regulated, including those contained in this royal decree. Stop patrimonializing the fight against climate change because it is a challenge for all, where there is no one left. Flaco favor do regarding awareness and action against this serious problem for future generations by adopting it and not allowing the rest of the parties to add and improve it. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u49	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, the Government forgets in this decree to include necessary, essential and truly urgent measures for Galicia. The BNG has put forward a number of initiatives in this regard, but they still do not address the situation in areas that have been suffering for some time from the consequences of the decarbonisation process and an energy transition that, for now, cannot be said to be fair. Thus, in our view, it would be necessary to amend the Electricity Act and the Water Act so that, when coal thermal power plants are closed and to promote a fair transition process, requirements for access to the point of evacuation and the granting of new concessions favouring the installation of projects in the affected territories in which environmental, social, economic development projects and associated industrial plans are to be considered. It would also be necessary to bet on additional public participation commitments in the share capital of the new generation facilities project from renewable energy sources. No mention is made of a specific call for competitive competition for the allocation of installed power, electric power or combination of both, which prioritizes those who are committed to environmental protection and social content and contemplate economic development projects or associated industrial plans. We miss the opportunity to regulate profound, important and necessary changes, such as the reversal in favour of the public sector of hydraulic concessions - many in Galicia - when they end, while time is wasted in gestural modifications such as the proposal for the surplus of local entities on the basis of Organic Law 2/2012 on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, which would only be supported by the BNG if it were to be repealed and, unfortunately, it is not. You will understand that for these and some other reasons we will not support the royal decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u51	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] The next item is Mrs Sabanes Nadal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u52	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in More CountryEquo we have a joint vision of what we are discussing today, what we discussed yesterday, what we have to do today and a strategic perspective with the 2030 horizon. It is difficult to dissociate one thing from the other and, therefore, we want to have this vision. It seems to us that it is a step forward, it is urgent, necessary and necessary to do so right now because it is very important to change the regulation of renewable energies in a competitive way for the energy transition, as it introduces figures such as the citizens' energy communities and elements that improve planning with the 2030 horizon and, in addition, it changes and improves the auction system, and it seems to me very important - for a matter of time I cannot attend to everything - the regulation of access and connection points. Avoiding accumulation, speculation, saturation and, consequently, bubbles is fundamental to the energy transition. That is a fundamental point. What do we miss? I believe that, in the medium term, we will have to address the issue of fiscal policies because it is also essential for the energy transition. Perhaps more specific targets could have been set for the number of housing units in terms of rehabilitation with energy efficiency criteria. We will contribute to the combined framework that I have explained between the Royal Decree and the Climate Change Act. In general terms, I believe that enormously complex and complicated processes are coming and, so we sometimes listen to each other, perhaps we should address at some point and regulate the transparency of the agendas or the lobbies records. It seems to me that, with what we have in our hands at the moment, it is quite important to make the distinction between vindictive discourses and lobbyist discourses. For that, nothing better than transparency in our agendas and lobbies records to know what everyone is in and what we stand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u53	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] The next item is Mr Miquel i Valentí.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u54	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you that we are going to support the validation of this royal decree-law and that we are not going to ask for its processing as a bill to avoid dysfunctions with other legislative initiatives, which were precisely discussed yesterday in this House and which we believe should be the focus of the debate. We will therefore call for the entire debate to be focused within the framework of the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act and will not request that this royal decree be treated as a bill. Despite our support, we have some reservations about this text. We believe that it does not convince the sector at all or us, but it does promote measures that are certainly necessary. I say to you that we have two reservations that we are going to try to protect and matify within the competition framework of the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act. One is a competitive issue and you are not going to be surprised because, in fact, it has already been mentioned here this morning. We believe that there is no need for the General Administration of the State and the Government to reserve the right, for example, to authorize charging infrastructure for electric vehicles with a power of more than 250 kilowatts. It is not necessary for the Government to manage it. We can understand his will to order and control, but we believe it would be to add more problems and more bureaucracy. There are alternatives such as moving management to the autonomous communities. It is not necessary for the central Government to do this work. Secondly, we are concerned that there are issues that delay or hinder processes. We have the experience, Minister, that your ministry is late in drafting regulations, as I have sometimes commented to you. That's what we're worried about. As you know and we have told you on several occasions, in the drafting of the regulation on closed distribution networks they are late. You point out in this royal decree that you plan to draft a new regulation to establish a remunerative framework for electricity generation from renewable sources, and we are concerned that the drafting of that regulation may hinder a process that should be rapid because the sector needs it and we believe that it is absolutely necessary. Despite those reservations that I have pointed out, we will support this text and, as I said, we will focus our efforts on amending and working within the framework of the new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u55	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Good morning, Madam Vice President. We discussed this morning in July, a little flavored to return it by yesterday's discussion, a real decree-law of energy measures that, in general terms, has been well received by the sector, despite the comments heard in another direction. Its virtues and competitive advantages have already been highlighted by Mrs Sagastizabal and Mr Miquel, and we share them. We believe that, at this point in the debate, it is quite outdated to understand that the future will be renewable or simply will not be. No one can escape that the draft Climate Change and Energy Transition Act has a long parliamentary road to go and will not be free of obstacles. We therefore believe that it is right to move forward some of the issues through this royal decree. However, and although I promise you, Minister, that we have received it with the appreciation of those who receive an advance, we cannot conceal our surprise at not finding certain aspects that we consider essential reflected, and it seems to us that this is a new missed opportunity to face measures of greater calm and depth, even more so in the context of the deep crisis in which we find ourselves. Our first conclusion is that this is a clearly electrocentric document. We want to remember that electricity currently accounts, unfortunately, for only 30% of final energy consumption. Vice-President, we have repeated it at various times and so we have moved it when we have had the opportunity that, without taxation aligned with the energy transition, this will be very difficult. We therefore miss in this royal decree any action relating to energy taxation. I guess we'll find it in the bill. We also miss the fact that the area of mobility of people and goods is not being reached, as well as the absence of measures relating to the just transition, which our parliamentary group considers priorities. And we again point out - by force of making ourselves heavy - that we believe that there are certain ideas that we must internalize immediately; and one of them is the concept kilometre zero - kilometre zero at all levels - for the production of goods and services, yes, but also for the generation of electricity, a generation near the places of consumption. In short, the aim is to bet on a change in the design of the model and move from a centralized vision to a decentralized and proximity vision as the basis of the energy transition. In other words, this royal decree-law also includes in its article 6 the possibility that municipalities can allocate 7% of the surplus for 2019, to finance investment costs in pure vehicles or zero environmental labels. We believe that this slight amendment to the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability is clearly insufficient. This is part of other debates that our spokesmen have had, but, from here on, we must insist on the need for the central government, at a time like the present, to release all the surpluses accumulated over the past few years and allow the municipalities to make public investment. There are many other projects that require these resources, such as building rehabilitation, energy efficiency or self-consumption, without leaving the scope of their competence. Now we are at a turning point and we believe, as I have already mentioned, that this dynamism of resources must be exercised mainly from the municipalities and from the territory, because it is the territory that best knows its needs and can adapt the projects that require it. In short, Madam Vice-President, our position is favourable; we will not turn our backs on measures that are necessary - and much - but I also urge you to remedy all those issues that I have been pointing out and that are not included in a sufficiently ambitious way. We are fully aware that, in parallel, we will be in the process of dealing with the draft climate change law and, here, we hope that they will be ambitious in their objectives. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u57	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Franco Carmona.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u58	Thank you, President. Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, I wanted to remind you that yesterday was 14 July and I therefore wanted to make a reminder, a commemoration from this rostrum of the values of the French Republic: Freedom, equality, fraternity. [[Give it up.]] The VOCID-19 pandemic has extraordinarily taught us the price of underestimating the devastating effect of the brutal cuts in our health and research in previous decades. Unidad Podemos has always made it clear that we had to invest in it and we hope that now we have all learned that, too. Despite the terraplanists and denialists of the far right of climate change, climate change is another global danger that science has been warning about for decades. Either we maintain global warming below 1.5 degrees from pre-industrial levels or we face a crisis of civilization. While these warnings have been ignored by politics for many years, the situation seems to have changed and, fortunately, this Government and the citizenry are already well aware of their importance, and this is something that is particularly clear in the climate change law. This pandemic - I said - has meant an almost total paralysis of economic activity, something that was essential to control the COVID-19 and save lives, but that has seriously damaged our labor, productive and social fabric. Whatever Spain is in the future will depend to a large extent on what we do today, and we know this and the coalition government, which is very clear, not only now but before the pandemic, that climate and energy transition policies should be one of the main pillars for defining a new economic and productive model in our country. More rightly, then, it must be one of the key axes for this major investment plan. It seems to us very positive and important that this royal decree establishes a new scheme for renewable auctions, in which, at last, as common sense dictates and has so many times been requested by social groups, the product underwritten is electricity and the variable on which it is offered is the remuneration price of that energy. These renewable auctions will have to have a subsequent regulatory development and from the United Nations We hope that the Government will include in the regulation measures that will contribute to the democratization of the energy transition process. We are talking, for example, that facilities that are above a certain size and are submitted to the auction are obliged to open a part of the capital to small legal investors, including individuals, municipalities or cooperatives. In addition, the European reconstruction funds being negotiated will have to be focused on digital transformation and energy transition. That is what we believe from the United Nations. We can and know that this Government is also aware of that. But when the funds are available, Spain will have to be prepared to present good projects, such as solar roofs. Installation of solar panels on roofs implies a greater generation of employment per installed power unit across the energy sector. According to the Low carbon jobs report, for each megawatt installed it is estimated that 21.6 jobs are created in the installation phase. In addition, with Royal Decree 244/2019, which regulates self-consumption, the regulatory framework is ready to allow such facilities. Thirdly, the updated draft of the National Energy and Climate Plan, the Pniec, which the Government sent to Brussels last week, includes the installation of 39 gigawatts before 2030; we are currently at 6. That is why we believe that the financial muscle of the state should support to a large extent, to a large extent that this power is installed on roofs, enabling a greater generation of employment and also the democratization of the electrical system through the distributed generation. A second plan could be housing rehabilitation. Each euro invested in a housing rehabilitation plan following energy, social and environmental efficiency objectives contributes to the achievement of three objectives that are fundamental for Spain. Objective one is the reactivation of employment, especially in the construction sector and in small reform and air-conditioning enterprises. Objective two, the contribution to the efficiency objective already cited by the Pniec with regard to the rehabilitation of housing. It should be borne in mind that more than 85% of existing buildings have an energy rating E, F or G, which are the lowest in emissions, so here there is a great potential for improvement. Goal three, reducing inequality. This plan is or may be especially targeted at the most vulnerable social sectors, with a clear correlation between energy rating and the income level of its inhabitants. Finally, the third project is on electric vehicle and sustainable mobility. The transport sector accounted for more than one quarter of emissions in 2017. The Pniec sets very ambitious targets, such as reducing emissions by 35% and having five million electric cars by 2030. We must seek the modernisation of the national car fleet through electrification, reduction of average vehicle consumption and a change in mobility that significantly reduces the use of the private vehicle in favour of public transport. That is why, as I said earlier, we will vote in favour of the hope that the reconstruction for Spain will be based on a more industrialised, stronger, but also more social and environmentally sustainable economic model because, as I have said on other occasions in this forum, the economy must not be contrary to social rights, but rather that the economy and social rights must walk hand in hand, although I add here that they must also walk hand in hand with environmental rights. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u59	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Applause.]] I now have the floor for the VOX Group, Mr Contreras Peláez. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u60	Our group has finally chosen to abstain from this decree, which largely develops a law to which we have opposed an amendment to the whole. This may require some explanation. We abstained and did not vote against because the decree includes some concrete measures that we could only support. I am referring to measures such as those provided for in the second final provision, aimed at minimizing the negative impacts on employment and depopulation of the territories affected by the energy transition. Note that this is to put a patch before the grain comes out, that is, already the law is recognizing that its application will cause damage in some territories and sectors. Or the measure provided for in the fourth additional provision, a specific remuneration scheme for activities whose operating costs depend essentially on the price of the fuel. But, as can be seen, these are palliative measures, mitigating measures of prior damage generated by the law. By the way, palliative medicine is very good when the disease is already installed, but there is something much better, and it is that the disease does not happen, which is what preventive medicine seeks. Therefore, we would prefer these measures to be unnecessary simply because the structural damage, the traumatic damage, the traumatic shock that will result for the Spanish society and economy in the coercive, accelerated and uneconomic imposition of renewable energies, which is basically the law of climate change and energy transition, does not occur. This decree which calls us today, in large part, as previous speakers have said, deals with renewable energies, their connection to the network, etc. In VOX - Mireia Borrás explained yesterday - we have nothing against renewable energies. We find clean energies, energies probably called - and I emphasize the probably, because we don't have a glass ball to see the energy future; the government seems to have it or considers it has it - to play a growing role in our energy mix. However, we would like renewable energies to move to fossil fuels in the same way that oil moved to whale oil, or in the same way that the car moved to the horse car. Don Antonio Maura's government did not need to meet to decree: stop horse cars, start cars. [[Give it up.]] That is, we want that transition to take place because of the profitability, the intrinsic usefulness of these new technologies and the free decision-making of users and not through political diktat. That is precisely what the climate change and energy transition law consists of, in a political diktat ordering that by 2030 renewables should account for 75% of our energy mix and by 2050 100%. Here we are witnessing authentic vertical planning, centralized planning of complete sectors of our economy that really recall Soviet five-year plans, a historic evocation that I suppose will not be unpleasant for some members of this government. [[Give it up.]] On the other hand, it happens that this film we have already seen in the past. Ten years ago, the government of Rodríguez Zapatero, also obsessed with putting the world's most ecological ruler's medal, submitted the Spanish economy to an early, accelerated, co-active introduction of renewable energies and the result was a 70% increase in the Spanish electricity bill. By the way, it has not only happened in Spain, it has also happened in countries such as Germany. Germany, after its Energiewende, its energy shift following the Fukushima nuclear incident - I mean incident because it did not produce a single fatal victim - decided to shut down many of its nuclear weapons and try to replace them with renewables. What has been proven is that renewables are not ripe to fill the gap left by nuclear energy. In Germany, not only has the electricity bill been increased by 50%, but they have also had to return to coal plants, which are, of course, the most polluting and the most CO2 stations. A very revealing figure: Germany is currently emitting 560 grams of CO2 per megawatt hour while France, for example, emits 58, one tenth, and Sweden 13, forty-seven. I mean, what features do France and Sweden share? They are highly nuclearised countries, countries with an important nuclear park in which nuclear energy occupies a very important part of the energy mix. In short, I believe that this is an issue in which the ideological abyss that separates VOX from the left becomes very evident. VOX believes in the free market, VOX believes in the economic freedom and technological neutrality of the state. On the other hand, the left believes in economic, social and technological interventionism; the essence of the left is the constant growth of State power over society. I would like to bring up a statement, an aphorism of the great Nicholas Gómez Dávila: When the state grows, the individual decreases. [[Applauds]] The essence of the left is social engineering and now the so-called climate emergency provides a perfect excuse for us to submit to this baccalaureate of interventionism, in which we are going to be told the food we must consume, the means of transport we must use, the energies we must use and, ultimately, how we must live. It is practically a new religion or pseudo-religion, whose commandment would be: repent, move by electric car and plant solar gardens. [[Give it up.]] All this at a time when, as Mireia Borrás and other parliamentarians have already pointed out, the proximity, unfortunately, of the economic tsunami that has generated the crisis of COVID and its poor management by this government is already evident. It was recently made public that the University of Cambridge had distinguished us with the dubious honor of being the worst-managed country in the crisis. Well, we believe that this economic crisis is going to be aggravated by these uneconomic measures which, in the end, are adopted by pure ideological whim...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u61	Mr. Contreras, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u62	Yes, I'm asking you for 30 seconds more attention than it is my first intervention, please. [[Laughs.]] What is at the end is to wear the medal of the most ecologists. I have quoted Gomez Dávila before, I will quote another aphorism of his: the maturity of the spirit begins when we stop feeling responsible for the world. I would suggest to the minister that she stop feeling responsible for the world; she is not responsible, Spain is not responsible for the supposed problem of CO2 heating. [[Give it up.]] As you know...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u63	Mr Contreras, I have responded to your request and the thirty seconds have passed. Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u64	... our emissions account for 0.7% of the global total and, if by devastating our economy we manage to reduce emissions by a third - which is what the law proposes - we will have contributed 0.2% to global decarbonisation. Thank you so much for your attention. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u65	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Requena Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u66	Thank you. Minister, I thank you for the tone and the forms in your exhibition. He woke up late, we didn't know where he was, but he woke up without any surprises, in the purest interventionist style, ideologically and with less precision and rigour in energy than when you embrace his ecological discourse. [[Mrs. Spain Queen: Very well!--Applause.]] It's hard for you to be a minister of energy, you don't feel as comfortable legislating on energy as you feel threatening the future of the powerful car industry in Spain, or closing power plants and sending people to unemployment, or scorning Alcoa and the electrically intensive industry, or mistrusting and looking elsewhere about our nuclear power plants - in that infected decarbonisation of cynicism that you preach - or threatening the survival of the industry will conserve on the Spanish coast, especially the Galician. By the way, the Galicians have been able to recognize who protects Galicia's interests and who does not protect Galicia's interests. [[Give it up.]] But you don't like energy legislation, so you abuse the real decree-law and use it to change the Electricity Sector Act, to develop renewable energies or to change the Environmental Assessment Act. She doesn't feel comfortable in energy and so she works as advisors in the ministry and pays off partners of major energy lobbies. Mrs. Sabanes, don't you censor that? Is it okay for the minister to pay a lobby to work for her? Moreover, it is a real decree-law that does not have that principle of uniformity that should have and brings us measures as varied as the liberalization of TDT frequencies, the rental of ADIF premises or that very important measure - which I am sure all the Spanish municipalities have requested with extreme urgency - that allows them to allocate 7% of their savings to the purchase of an electric vehicle; sure it is the first. He knows that the People's Group is committed to a just ecological transition and an energy transition that generates wealth and employment opportunities, that transforms society into a more just and respectful society, a competitive energy transition. We believe in our country's potential as an industrial engine. Therefore, we believe that when such important changes occur in our society, we must win all and not lose any. But you are sectarian, you make an energy transition in which you directly favor technologies - including natural gas - and everything else you have left. And you know - and if you don't know it, I tell you - that the transition that defends is neither the most economically profitable, nor the most socially just, nor is it the most environmentally clean. How are we going to ensure competitiveness as a country? How is security of supply guaranteed? Let me focus today on the Royal Decree-Law and on some specific issues that are taking place in it and which seem to us to be extremely important. From the People's Parliamentary Group we believe that the rural world has an important role to play in the development of renewable energy installations. That's why it's good to know the access capacity of the just transition nodes and what's going to happen to the plants that have been closed and to the people that you've sent to unemployment, but it's also essential for the rest of the rural world to know what the individualized access capacity is in each and every one of the nodes of the transport network in Spain. I live in the province of Jaén, but just as in my province it happens in other provinces of Spain and the interior, that to know even if we can dream of the development of renewable energies we have to know what is the capacity of evacuation by territories. On the other hand, they present a legislative amendment enabling the Government to establish an alternative remuneration framework to the current one, to establish an auction system. It is nothing more than a covert system of PPPs between promoters and government, that is, more interventionism. As they move one step further, they clearly and precisely regulate the negotiation and signature of PPPs between producers and consumers with certainty, distinguish between the public and the private, and also allow free and private development. Moreover, this auction mechanism they propose is aimed at generating uncertainty in the wholesale market and distorting it because it will generate artificial reference prices, and neither will it be possible to control price volatility on the market. Instead, we believe that it is good to have several methods for financing and developing renewable energy projects. This royal decree presents a design of auctions, but it does not say anything about PPPs; however, we know that they are necessary not only for those who are already signed and for the danger in which the competitiveness of the companies that have it can be put, but also for those who could be signed. On the other hand, they use this royal decree-law to make amendments to Law 21/2013 on Environmental Assessment, and in its explanatory statement it is said that it is done to provide the procedure for environmental assessment with greater agility and legal certainty. That's a lie, what they actually do is they amend their own mistakes; they changed the law in 2018, when they arrived, and now they undo the changes they made; that is, the opposite of legal certainty. Moreover, you open the door to discretion. If you don't like a project, you don't like a promoter or if you create some doubts, just let the deadlines die to paralyze a project and throw away years of work. They state that administrative silence is dismissing a project and that is a tremendously unfair thing, Minister. The problem in the management of projects is not in the promoters, do not demonize them, it is in the General Administration of the State itself, which delays seventy months the development of wind energy projects and forty-five those of photovoltaics. If we really want to speed up the process of developing renewable energies, let us propose an amendment to Article 3.13 of the Electricity Act, let us change the competition thresholds upwards and give greater prominence to the autonomous communities, which have shown that they manage more agilely and process projects in half time. Minister, you want to use this royal decree to redeem yourself from your attacks on the car industry, but these measures are so timid, they are so insufficient that in that you do not stay, flee faster and press the municipalities to see if it hangs. I want to ask you, since so many consultations you received: how many times have you asked the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces to use the surplus for the purchase or purchase of electric vehicles? I'm telling you, none. Do you believe that mayors, especially in rural municipalities, want to have their remaining treasury to call for grants to help companies affected by COVID, for employment plans, to make investments that will improve their municipalities, or do you think they want to allocate it for the purchase of an electric car? Electric mobility is a state policy, do not charge the municipalities with responsibility. What happens is that their state policies cause the car companies to leave and the companies to close. And I'm done, Mr. President. Minister, this royal decree-law is not urgent because of the measures brought in it, it is urgent to solve the errors of your government, your mistakes, because they want to use the surplus that was generated in the electricity system with the reforms of the People's Party to pay their clumsiness in the management of the electricity system of 2019 and 2020. It is urgent because they want to solve their own problems of dialectic speculation, which have caused requests for the development of renewable energies to be received four and five times higher than those needed by Spain. You make speculators rub their hands and, worst of all, you haven't solved a single megawatt of renewable energy in the two years you've been a minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u67	Mr. Requena, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u68	I'm done, I'm done. Speculation and clumsiness in management, two components that are already the mark of the house of this social communist government. Let us not continue to make mistakes, allow this royal decree-law to be passed as a bill, let us work together in the energy transition of this country, which is so much needed. My group will abstain. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u69	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Renau Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u70	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. To boost the decarbonization agenda, to put order in access and networking permits, to regulate new business models in the field of energy, to promote energy efficiency and innovation, to accelerate the energy transition and, ultimately, to boost investment to cope with economic reactivation, that is what this real decree we are debating today for its validation is about. Look, there are two facts that seem undeniable to me today. The first is that we are at an economic crossroads that requires a rapid reaction on our part to cushion the impacts that will still occur. The second is that, although we have not remembered it, the climate emergency has not gone anywhere, it has not disappeared, if it has been aggravated by the wait rate, it is still there and we still have to put in place measures to alleviate its effects. There are two different ways to deal with these facts: you can succumb to fear, act and see them as a threat or you can be bold and focus them as a real opportunity; an opportunity to be better, to do things right; an opportunity to accelerate the energy transition; an opportunity to boost investment in renewable energy; an opportunity, in short, to take advantage of the situation as a green lever for the economic revival of our country, and the Government knows and has understood it perfectly. As I said at the beginning, that is precisely what this real decree is about, to establish the mechanisms necessary to accelerate the investments that put us on the path of sustainable growth. Yesterday we were discussing the entire amendment tabled by VOX to the climate change and energy transition bill, and, with the exception of the exception that seems to confirm the rule, listening to your interventions, ladies and gentlemen, it became clear to me that an overwhelming majority of us share a vision of how our country should deal with the future of climate change. Well, this royal decree is the prologue, in it we begin to pave the way for the attainment of the purposes that this law pursues, with whose objectives I believe we mostly agree. So I suppose I can advance them without fear of making spoilers or revealing to them the end, that the Socialist Group will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Ooooh!]] Sure. But, look, Mr Contreras, ladies and gentlemen of Vox, you make some very curious analogies: horse cars, fossil fuels. Do you know the difference between the transition from horse cars to cars, and from fossil fuel to renewable energy? Very simple: that horse cars were not destroying the planet and fossil fuels are doing so. [[Give it up.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we all know where the future is going; they have already said it here, the future will be renewable or it will not be, there is only one possible route and it is the renewable route. We understand perfectly that renewable energies, by their very nature, are not manageable, they are only available when the renewable resource is available, they are only available when the wind is blowing or when the sun is shining, so it is so important to regulate storage, as is done in this royal decree, which allows us to optimize and manage the energy generated by renewable plants. In addition to storage, a number of figures are also regulated that are going to be tremendously relevant in the energy transition ahead, such as hybridisation, such as independent aggregators and renewable energy communities, because they enable the network to be optimised and because they allow participation in the markets of citizens and local authorities. But for that it is very urgent to put order in the current situation of access and networking permits with the aim of ending speculative movements and giving way to real projects, tangible projects and backed by firm investments. That is why it is also necessary to establish a new mechanism for renewable auctions that is price-oriented, which serves to boost investment, to continue the decarbonisation of our economy and to reduce energy costs. And it does so by encouraging innovation in renewable energies and facilitating the participation of small investors because it allows innovative pilot projects or small-scale facilities not to have to go to these auctions to gain access to remuneration, and also promotes research with regulatory test banks, with specific mechanisms for research, development and innovation facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of work to be done in this area: research into alternative energies, solar, wind, generation of green hydrogen. Of course, it is also a law that prepares us for the new paradigm of electric mobility, declaring of public utility the recharge points of high capacity, thus helping to remove one of the main barriers that finds the adoption of the electric vehicle in our country. The text also addresses many other urgent issues aimed at providing security, liquidity and balance to the system in order to ensure activity and new investments, measures which have already perfectly broken down by the Vice-President during her initial intervention, such as the increase in investment limits in transport and distribution networks or measures aimed at installations which are mainly dependent on fuel prices, such as cogeneration plants, which are the ones most affected during the pandemic and which will be revised upwards in this period. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to leave to the end a reflection which I consider very important, especially because of the social impact it entails. Whenever we talk about energy transition, we need to talk about just transition, because these are two issues that must always go hand in hand. The closure of coal thermal plants, which is a great news for the climate and the environment, becomes a real challenge for employment where they were located. For many years, for many years, these power stations were the source of energy that moved the economic engine of our country. We all - all without exception - benefit from their existence and now we must be responsible, we must offer an employment alternative to all people who are affected by their closures and that is why the just transition nodes are given specific treatment and that is why the Institute for the Just Transition is created and adapted, because we must offer a sustainable industrial alternative to these regions and we must do so now, it is something that cannot be expected. Ladies and gentlemen, and with this I am finishing, before I put the end of this speech to you, it was no secret either: the Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. And we also call for the vote in favour of the rest of the groups, because it contains urgent measures, measures that they cannot wait for because this is the momentum that our country needs right now, the momentum for a sustainable energy transition, the momentum for a just energy transition. This can't wait. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u71	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 24/2020, OF 26 JUNE, OF SOCIAL MEASURES TO REACTIVATE EMPLOYMENT AND PROTECTION OF THE AUTOMOUS WORK AND COMPETITIVENESS OF THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR. [[File number 130/000025]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u72	We turn to the next point, validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 24/2020 of 26 June, of social measures for the reactivation of employment and the protection of self-employment and the competitiveness of the industrial sector. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the Minister of Labour and Social Economy has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u73	Good morning. I compare with you today to explain the content and scope of Royal Decree-Law 24/2020 of 26 June on social measures for the reactivation of employment and social protection of self-employment and the competitiveness of the industrial sector. This standard has three axes: self-employment, self-employment and industry. In addition, there are a number of provisions allowing the necessary adaptations so that Directive 2017/159 on work in fisheries can be transposed, ensuring the repatriation to their residence of persons working at sea. The first part contains the Second Social Agreement on the Defence of Employment, which gives continuity to ERTs as a mechanism for the protection of employment and the productive fabric. The word ERTE currently transcends its acronyms and means much more than just a dossier for temporary regulation of employment. The EERTs have been an instrument of collective solidarity, reflecting faithfully the State's commitment to the maintenance of business and employment projects through unprecedented public investment. The Spanish system of the ERTE during the pandemic has reversed the way in which it had been reacting to other crises until today and has shown that it can act effectively against situations of enormous economic impact, ensuring stability in employment and putting people in the centre. Royal Decree-Law 24/2020 is a system that reflects public involvement in recovery and establishes the basic principles for a transition to normal economic activity and employment in our country, a model managed by social dialogue through the Tripartite Labour Monitoring Commission, which, as you know, continues its course. From the point of view of its content, Royal Decree-Law 24/2020 adapts to the peculiarities of the phase of the new normality. The Royal Decree-Law 24/2020 continues to progressively restrict the application of the ERTEs by force majeure specific to the pandemic and to seek the transit to the productive ERTEs, which now enjoy for the first time - it is important to emphasize - exemptions to social security. As you know, this has never happened before in our country. The disappearance of the ERTEs by force majeure could not, however, be total at this time, because there is the possibility - which unfortunately we are living - of outbreaks of the pandemic. For this reason, and in a manner consistent with the transition to normality, Royal Decree-Law 24/2020 has adapted the ERTE by ordinary force major for cases of rebound. For these cases of ERTE of resurgence, Royal Decree-Law 24/2020 establishes a system of exemptions more intense than expected which, as your lords know, is oriented towards the reactivation of the activity and which is already bearing fruit. Royal Decree-Law 24/2020 maintains the guarantees of the good use of ERTE, preventing those companies domiciled in tax havens from receiving them and excluding in large companies the distribution of dividends during the fiscal year corresponding to ERTE. The same is also true of the prohibition of overtime, outsourcing or re-contracting established by Royal Decree-Law 24/2020 when the company is in ERTE, except in the case of justified exceptions which are strictly set out in the norm. It was also imperative that the Royal Decree-Law establish a specific employment safeguard clause. All measures to promote employment with public funds must establish it and Royal Decree-Law 24/2020 could not be an exception. To this end, the same six-month employment maintenance clause was established as was already established in the previous decrees. If not met, as you know, the company will have to reintegrate the amount of public resources received. The Royal Decree-Law also provides for the extension until 30 September of this year of the provisions of articles 2 and 5 of Royal Decree-Law 9/2020. This implies, on the one hand, that the calculation of temporary contracts is interrupted during the ERTE time. This is very important in our country. On the other hand, it also implies that dismissal is unjustified for any cause ETOP, for organizational, technical, economic or production reasons, when the suspension provided for in Royal Decree-Law 24/2020 itself is possible. These are two measures that were set up in the midst of the health crisis and whose importance for the maintenance of employment is beyond doubt. This is because it prevents temporary contracts during ERTEs from being extinguished and redundancies due to pandemic-related situations occur when ERTE was the appropriate figure. They are, therefore, instruments that not only serve to ensure the employment of the people hired, but also seek the commitment of the companies to stable employment, with capitals, in this key phase of the post-COVID recovery, which will also be key when the recovery ends. In short, the system designed in Title I of this Royal Decree-Law gives reasonable, balanced and justified continuity to ERTEs, provides coverage to workers and companies contributing to the maintenance of employment, provides incentives for a guided transition to post-pandemic recovery and adequately addresses new situations that could arise as a result of possible rebounds. The second part of the Royal Decree-Law focuses on self-employed workers. Self-employment is fundamental in the Spanish economy and has therefore been given special attention by the Government at the harshest moments of the pandemic, in which unprecedented support measures have been adopted for this group, which have mainly focused on the cessation of activity and exemptions from social security contributions, but which have had many other manifestations. The rule now presented maintains the same commitment to self-employed persons as the Government has so far had. It is a rule of accompaniment towards normality that prolongs state support for self-employment. It is particularly important to note that these measures have been agreed with the autonomous associations, with ATA, UPTA and Uatae. The measures established by Royal Decree-Law 24/2020 to support the maintenance of the economic activity of the autonomous persons at the time of post-pandemic recovery are of three types. Firstly, those mentioned in Article 6 of Royal Decree-Law 24/2020, which provides for an exemption in the social security contribution applicable from 1 July 2020 for those self-employed persons who are recovering the activity, which will result in savings of at least EUR 500 for most self-employed persons in the coming months. Secondly, Article 9 of Royal Decree-Law 24/2020 establishes the exceptional possibility of access to the provision, in this ordinary case, of cessation of activity in cases where there had been a fall in turnover of at least 75 % in the third quarter of the current year compared to the third quarter of the previous financial year. In order to ensure coverage, this benefit will be received immediately, although it will be subject to subsequent verification on the basis of the relevant tax data. It should be stressed that the enjoyment of the cessation of activity provided for in this standard is in part compatible with the maintenance of the activity, an absolutely novel possibility in the regulation of the provision of the cessation of ordinary activity that has been designed to be an effective measure of support for economic recovery. Thirdly, Article 10 of Royal Decree-Law 24/2020 provides for an extraordinary termination benefit for seasonal workers. This is a specific aid to the group popularly known as season autonomous, those who develop activities linked to the summer period and who have been severely affected by the pandemic. They are granted the possibility of access to an extraordinary benefit of 70% of the regulatory base, plus exemption from social security contributions, with effect from 1 June to 31 October. In short, as far as the self-employed are concerned, it is a system designed in a coordinated and coherent way with the ERTE system, because it shares its objectives and tools and even shares its consensual character, which reinforces its social legitimacy and, of course, its effectiveness. This rule, ladies and gentlemen, ensures that persons employed on their own and on their own account are able to reactivate their activities under appropriate conditions for the present and future stability of their jobs, as well as of their professions. Finally, and with this in mind, the Government's rule for consideration in this House is a rule of economic reactivation and, above all, of commitment to individuals and businesses. It arises at a critical time when the objective is not only to solve one more problem, but to consolidate jobs, consolidate professions, consolidate companies and consolidate industries so that they can create wealth, secure rights, recognize efforts and form a model that reflects the collective solidarity that we have built during the pandemic, in partnership, as you know, with the social partners, to whom, once again, I thank all their contributions. This House must pick up its witness and, in addition to supporting the royal decree that I have succinctly presented to you - if it deems it appropriate - it must encourage major agreements that allow the reactivation to continue its course and our country to emerge strengthened from the pandemic. It is not a vain hope for me, it is the conviction of who has been and is a Member of this Congress and it assumes the important mission that in the current circumstances have those that - like you - from your seats represent our people. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u74	Thank you very much, Minister. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister of Labour and Social Economy. I will support, with my vote in favour, the validation of this royal decree-law, which deepens the measures to provide support for previous legislative initiatives that were validated here in Congress, and which in turn have my support. [[The lady]] Once the bulk of the health emergency is over, I consider it essential that the Government - and in particular the ministry you run - receive legal instruments with which to operate in the labour crisis we have on top and that unfortunately it is dragging hundreds of thousands of workers both on behalf of others and self-employed. However, I would like to refer briefly to Title III of this Royal Decree-Law on the matter of the Spanish Guarantee Fund for Electrointensive Entities, Fergei, which comes very late, is insufficient and serves only as an alibi for the Sánchez Government to avoid the solution to the major problems of the electrointensive industry. Fergei does not approve the high electricity prices paid in Spain to those of industrial countries such as Germany or France, and therefore the Spanish industry will continue to discriminate and pay energy prices far above its competitors - in particular, of the order of 40% more expensive - and this affects competitiveness and also seriously affects employment. They know it in Galicia - and you, who are from there, know it perfectly - as we know in Asturias and as we are reminded every day of hundreds of workers who today have committed their jobs. All support measures, such as Fergei, are welcome, but I reiterate in this rostrum that the Government must fulfil its commitment to the electro-intensive industry, which has been subject to a great deal of pressure for several years in view of the high electricity prices paid in Spain and whose consequences are measured by the closure of companies. No more patches, but in any case I point to your last call to hope to join forces in pursuit of the great Spanish priority, which is nothing other than job creation. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Sayas López has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u77	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will support this decree, but it is true that we will also tell you, Minister, that it is time to leave the patches to make a lasting plan in time and consensual. We believe that we are talking about a new patch because it is true that this decree is posed as a transition to normality, but no one believes that on September 30th we are in normality. Obviously, we are alarmed by the outbreaks of the virus we are seeing in many provinces of Spain. We are tremendously alarmed when we know the data that is coming down from the Spanish economy, which seems to be going to be above 12%, and I say to you that probably well above 12%. The economic recovery is not glimpsed in the form of either asymmetric or u grapes, rather it seems a long, prolonged, hard and lasting ele. However, ERTE must be prolonged, at least until the end of the year - at least until the end of the year - and we must also continue to put on the table other measures to encourage the economy, to help farmers and farmers, to help businesses, to help self-employed people and to help workers, and of course what needs to be done is to park nonsense, because raising taxes at a time like this is foolishness, because beating businesses at a time like this is foolishness, and because proposing a derogation from labour reform, in addition to being foolishness, is also an enormous fear. So, park the nightly policies of the radical left and do the favor of putting some leadership on the table. I believe that all Spaniards are asking us who we are in this House, regardless of the political colour we are defending, unity, and we must be able to demonstrate that unity at a particularly complicated time as our country is currently living. But if all of us here have an obligation to seek that unity, the Government has an obligation to lead it and to make it right, and it cannot spare that responsibility. So our hand is stretched out if they change taxes for impulses, if they change the burden on companies for opportunities, and if they change the taxes for dialogue. I would not like to end this intervention in which we are talking about employment, not to mention a drama that is currently being suffered by the Foral Community of Navarre. The Gamesa company in Aoiz has announced the closure of the plant and 239 families will go to the street. That is something that our community, that that area and those families cannot afford. We need, we beg and demand the commitment and work of the Government of Spain so that this plant does not close. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u79	Thank you very much, President. Minister, good morning. You pointed out that this royal decree is useful and balanced. I am not going to deny the usefulness of it, as it guarantees minimal resources to a large number of workers, but I have more doubt that it will be beneficial for it to be balanced, because I believe that we still do not take a clear choice as to which paths should be followed for this which is called economic revival; I am not saying even the new normality, but economic revival. It seems to me that this Government is seeking an unstable and fragile balance between the traditional demands of the left and the demands that its new allies may bring to it at these last stages of the state of alarm, the Citizens' Lords. I believe that this is not good, and that is why I tell you that in all cases and in all circumstances the balance is not weightily positive. You in the decree talk about issues that we agree with, such as those who tax tax havens or who pay dividends for profits during this period. But it is no less true that, in addition to the question of tax havens, they would also miss to pursue the circumvention that is made through the subsidiaries; that is, there is not only a tax circumvention through the parent company, but sometimes there are screen companies that are the ones who commit tax circumvention in different ways, and that we continue without seeing it developed as we believe it is necessary. You tell us about the ERTE, and there is one part that is positive: that the workers can continue to perceive them. But it is no less true - you have pointed out, and we agree - that it is EUR 8 billion per month, if I remember correctly, that is, a huge expenditure for the Spanish State and for the public coffers. And since they do not have the machine of making money, because it seems that the Bank of Spain has a limited capacity or sovereignty, because in these times of shared sovereignty he has it limited by supranational institutions, and as it is not worth to conform with the machine of counting notes that is in Zarzuela, because that only counts, does not create or contribute, these expenses that are there and that you point to us generate a certain concern. It is good that workers receive a minimum income that allows them to maintain a certain vital dignity, but we are not very clear whether there are many entrepreneurs who are taking advantage of these ERTE free of charge to reduce their own costs and their own contributions. And that in the background goes to the detriment of the public arks, because they will be saving money for keeping staff without knowing - that is a fear that you and I, when we have been campaigning, will surely have lived and felt - if the ERW are not going to become a dangerous sequence, not to say dark, which is to move from ERW to ERW, and from ERW to unemployment. That is the drama that many people hold in their heads and it would have seemed important to us that it should have been pointed out. In the same way we should also tell people that being at ERTE is a lesser evil because probably in the income declaration of the year 2021 they will not have the benevolence, if it is that they obtained it before, through the contributions of their direct employment, since the perceptions of ERTE are not subject in the same way, and therefore, it may Hacienda in 2021 give them a scare and a little the calm to which they are subjected right now. He also spoke of the self-employed. I am not going to insist much more because I have said this on more than one occasion from this rostrum: we still do not understand why an autonomous - I think this does not even go in political colors but is something shared - has to lose 75% of the volume of its business in order to benefit from certain measures. I could give you thousands of examples, even if I didn't want to turn this into a yard. For example, why a taxi driver who is paying a license - you know that the licenses are high, not so those of Uber and Cabify - has to choose between staying out of work in order to be able to receive the help that there is for self-employed or running the risk that your billing will rise above 25%, to 30%, so that you could not take on many of the expenses that you have, and therefore your situation would be even worse than if you were not working. We think they'd have to go for a ride there. On the subject of competitiveness, he has told us about the electro-intensive sector. It would be very good if they somehow got their hands on them and forced them to do something much more than they do to Iberdrola - to talk about a Basque company - and to other companies, because they do continue to make money, and to spores, also during a pandemic period. But, in any case, as at the end of what it is about is having money, and as they can't make it, as I said before, nor can they count on the machine of the Zarzuela because it's not worth it, because the same thing that should be done is talking about taxation, too, when it comes to these things. Therefore, we maintain a distant position with these measures, because they say things that seem positive, but they do not tell who they are going to burden the expense of what they are going to accomplish. That is, when we talk about maintaining ERTE, or aid to self-employed people, or any other type of aid such as minimum living income, nobody tells us where the money is going to come from. We have already made this clear to you. Someone here has just pointed out that these are the measures of the radical left. I don't know, I think radical is going to the root of the problems, and now more than ever it takes clarity and determination to tackle the great problem that we have, that is, that we will be radical. For example, we would have to install a COVID rate, we would have to install a tax on big fortunes and wealth. We in Euskadi are raising a 1% rate, and I do not think it would be negative to propose it here. Fiscal fraud should be pursued with greater determination, starting with the first of the Spaniards, who seem to have more pasta every day outside the Spanish state, although every day it also looks more patriotism. We are also still concerned - I would point out - with the reality of domestic workers. I know that you are, too, not a reproach, but it is a concern that I am moving here so that you do not forget it, because many domestic workers have already been working before the pandemic in a situation of submerged economy and have now become absolutely devoid of everything. Someone here said that what the Spaniards are demanding is unity. I don't feel Spanish, but surely the person who said that includes me as Spanish, so I'll tell him that I and those who are out there demonstrating and who have given me this shirt have not claimed unity, they have claimed the end of the labor reform. [[shows your T-shirt, which bears the hashtag #FutureForNissanYA]] Therefore, we will continue to insist from this rostrum and from where it is necessary for someone to ever keep the word in the Spanish State and to keep the signed. We will therefore call again and again for the repeal of labour reform because we believe that this is about consolidating jobs, and quality jobs. It is very good to talk - as you said - about consolidating companies, but it would be good to consolidate companies that do not leave after taking a lot of money in public aid, as did Nissan or as did Siemens Gamesa in Aoiz, in Nafarroa and elsewhere. That is the reflection that we are going to give you here today, and it will certainly not be very different from what we are doing at the next point because we believe that the measures proposed in the Committee on Economic Reactivation continue to suffer from a clear line, and they remain a kind of coffee for all to misunderstanding. The same is true of the Austrian backpack, that of bringing down labour reform, which then tells us that in this crisis no one is going to get touched, or that we are all going to get out of it, when unfortunately the reality is quite different and as I have pointed out before we have been able to see when more and more people are already feeling outside of this reality. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u80	Thank you, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you, Mrs. García. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u81	Good morning, y'all, y'all. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are three titles, eleven additional provisions, a transitional one and seven final ones that make up this royal decree-law, which materializes the second Social Agreement in Defense of Employment, signed between the social representation and the Government, and which aims to extend not only previous measures, but also the adaptation of another previous agreement dated 8 May between the same social agents and which gave rise to the Royal Decree-law 18/2020. We said on that occasion that the virtue of these measures was to accompany the process of economic and labour recovery and that it allowed the companies, which had to stop their activity, to try to reverse this crisis situation and also the workers - dependent or self-employed workers - to go through this situation with a certain degree of relief, which in turn is transferred to the economic situation by the income and to the consumption that it produces as an indirect effect. These were measures which, at the time, required flexibility in certain employment situations, but also aid for situations of shortage and which have resulted in different measures which the Minister has described in a much broader way. I will tell you more briefly that they are the extensions of ERTE by force majeure and ERTE by force majeure partial until 30 September, with the application of new decreasing exemptions; the transition - important issue - from ERTE by force majeure to ERTE ETOP - economic, technical, organisational or productive ERTE by force economic, technical or productive ERTE - with the new application of exemptions from quotas also in this case or certain restrictions on outsourcing activities, overtime or hiring staff during ERTE; a new ERTE, also important for cases of force majeure in cases of rebounds, which provides for new exemptions; the extension of the extra allowance for cessation of activity for self-employed persons - is not only relevant, but will certainly mark the future of many of the commercial and other activities supported by the self-employed - and the exemptions or benefits in assessment that this implies; the new exemptions for these self-employed persons which have come to the extra-seasonal provision 50 % in July and the other application of the decrees in question are to be made in accordance with Article 50 %. Well, of course we are going to support this royal decree-law and we are not going to add too much to this approach. However, we would like to add or reiterate some considerations to some of the reflections that we have already made with the Royal Decree-Law 18/2020. I said - and I repeat today - that the main virtue of this initiative is to raise the consequences of social dialogue to the regulatory framework, and it is appropriate to remember that, because it also serves as a precedent for any change in the field of work outside this framework, which must also be supported in this area by an agreement in the Bureau for Social Dialogue. Without prejudice to the justification for charging in the Social Security budget the cost of the exemptions envisaged as aid, it must not affect the pension system, Minister. I believe that this is something that we must take very seriously and that when it comes to talking about the Toledo Pact we must claim it. Why? Because it must be based on the principle of separation of sources and in this case that distinction is not clear. Even if - it has been said before by Mr Sayas - the temporal horizon of the measures is until 30 September, I think we are all aware of the uncertainty in which we find ourselves and this makes us think that we are going to exceed that limit. On the basis of this reflection, that perhaps it will not be enough on 30 September and not even on 1 January, this may be the time to put forward on the horizon that some of these measures, which have already ceased to be temporary, can become structural. Perhaps some of the proposed measures should be looked at from another point of view, and I will give you some example. Some of these measures may have to be devoted to the restructuring of specific sectors, and I am remembering hospitality, trade and others, because their future we believe is not going to be the same or under the same conditions that have existed so far. There is one issue that I would like to point out to you in a perhaps novel way. The measures of economic reactivation and defence of employment we believe make sense, but they do not have it completely if that purpose is not linked with training in any of its facets. We believe that it is a mistake to look at aid and the purpose of maintaining employment without the prospect of training. The key is training, in our way of looking. No action should obviate that the future is designed with training and that neither the jobs of the future nor the economy of the future will be stable, and even less competitive, without adequate preparation. It makes no sense to feed the survival of fragile sectors to maintain the same characteristics and, on the contrary, we believe that digitalisation training and new forms of work should be part of the collective effort structure that these aids entail. There's another question I'm going to finish with. With this help, the prospect of vulnerability may have been lost. Young people, women or older than 50 - to quote the most topical - are collectives who have once again become more helpless and are not specifically covered by the measures of economic revival and employment guarantee, and must do so in the future. And, I repeat, I believe that the key to the aid being proposed is social sustainability, but also sustainability for another purpose, which is that of the future. The key is training and we insist on it, because we believe that future employment must be a ready job and the economy must also be prepared. In this sense, I cannot fail to echo a concrete situation, as Mr Sayas has done before, which is the situation of Gamesa in Aoiz, precisely because, despite a collective effort in preparation, technology and training in certain industrial and employment fields, we cannot allow this collective effort to result in ill-considered or misunderstandings when they result in relocation. What is happening in Aoiz has nothing to do with this crisis situation, but it does have to do with another phenomenon that may return as a result of this COVID-19 pandemic situation. I would like you to pay attention to this issue from the Ministry of Labour and the Government. Delocalizations are intolerable...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u82	Mr. Barandiaran, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u83	I'm done, President. The relocations are intolerable, we cannot let what is happening right now in Gamesa in Aoiz happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u85	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to this rostrum to establish the position of my parliamentary group with regard to the validation of Royal Decree-Law 24/2020, a royal decree which includes, among other things, an extension of the ERTE and also the extraordinary benefit of the self-employed until 30 September. I am grateful for the enormous consensus that has generated this extension throughout society, because with this extension of the protection of workers and companies we extend certainty, we bet on trust and alleviate the drama of millions of families looking to the future with fear; with fear, ladies and gentlemen, because there is no international or domestic body that has not been forced to worsen the data on the economic impact that the crisis of the coronavirus has and will leave in Spain. Today the AIReF, the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, warns of a collapse of more than 12% of our GDP; in short, a desolating economic future that forces us to prepare. From the first minute in Citizens we proposed to the government the use of ERTE as an alternative to mass layoffs, not to repeat the alluvition of ERE with which our country faced the crisis of 2008. The Socialist Group now sells as an achievement this network of protection to workers and businesses, while the coalition government - its government, minister - and its partners proclaim that they want to repeal the labour reform that precisely enables these ERTs. We have just heard the honourable Member of EH Bildu say that he does not feel Spanish, but that from here he calls for the repeal of a Spanish labour law. I would also like to draw your attention to the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and other parliamentary groups, who were repeatedly willing to bring down the state of alarm by pure party calculation and with it the ERTE and the benefits to the self-employed who protect millions of families at these difficult times, which my group believes is a great irresponsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, we humbly believe that the flexibility and extension of ERTs is working and that the more flexible these ERTs are and the longer they last for certain sectors such as hospitality and tourism the more effective they will be. Minister, the harsh confinement decreed by your Government has been one of the strictest and longest in Europe to alleviate the negligent initial response to the virus. To completely paralyze economic activity, plus all the contradictions and uncertainties generated in a sector as important to our economy as tourism, for example, we know that it will have a devastating effect on the long-awaited recovery, which I can already tell you will be long and hard. It was therefore pointless to link the duration of ERTEs and the benefits of the self-employed to confinement. The intensity of the impact that our economy has suffered and also the increasing risk that we are seeing in our country with these dreaded rebounds in recent days, as well as the possible effects of a second wave that are imported from abroad, will undoubtedly continue to make a dent in our economy and our labour market. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you cannot repeat the mistakes of the past, you must learn from them. For that, the first thing to do is to park the ideology and recognize where it has been wrong. The crisis has plagued Spain, surprising it with unfulfilled duties, with structural reforms pending and without adapting our labour laws to the economy of the 21st century, while we entrust ourselves to Brussels in the face of this government's palatable inability to address the recession that is coming to us. Spain does not have to be condemned to have to complain in the future and therefore in Citizens we will not tire of demanding that it be rectified and acted with force and speed. Nevertheless, Minister, we welcome the Government's re-fulfilment of many of the economic demands of my parliamentary group, both with regard to ERTs and in a more innovative way with the extraordinary measures of support for the self-employed. However, we do not welcome them because they have been ideas or proposals of Citizens, but because they are good measures for the Spaniards, as good are also the other measures that this royal decree that Citizens negotiated with the Government for the support of the extensions and the exemption of the quotas to the autonomous of the Social Security, which will also reach the month of September and which, in turn, will be compatible with the extraordinary benefit of the autonomous and also with the extension of the ERTE until 30 September, as well as the recognition of a specific protection for all those autonomous who carry out seasonal seasonal seasonal activities, the so-called temporaries, in the same way as had been done with the permanent workers discontinuing. We are sincerely pleased that the Government has finally returned to the path of agreement with the social partners and that these agreements with employers and trade unions are included in this decree. Negotiation and dialogue are something that should be absolutely natural, but as demonstrated by PSOE-Peus and nationalists' continuing polemics about labour reform or telework, it is still extraordinary today. However, I would like to point out that the Government has not changed a single comma in relation to the flexibility of conditions for companies eligible for ERTs, despite the claims of several social actors and also of several political groups. This is very worrying, although you have spoken about the good use of ERTE, because if you really have the objective of saving jobs, or at least we believe it from my group, the government cannot put in conditions difficult or impossible to meet, or whose compliance would end up breaking the company or destroying jobs. I am referring, for example, to the fact that the companies receiving these measures are unable to distribute dividends from 2020, or the employment safeguard clause. We would like, Minister, for the government to reconsider and modulate these conditions which are unfair to us for the extension of the ERTE because, if not, we fear that many of today's ERTE will become tomorrow's ERAs. Therefore, minister, and despite voting favorably for the validation of this royal decree-law, we will ask for its processing as a bill to be able to defeat and improve it, including more flexible and less burdensome conditions for companies benefiting from ERTE. I'm done, President. We ask you, gentlemen of the Government, responsibility, self-criticism to learn from mistakes and tireless work to unite efforts and reach agreements so that these errors do not recur. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you present this Royal Decree Law 24/2020 as the result of the social dialogue, but the truth is that this dialogue and, therefore, the measures collected here are decisively conditioned by the fact that you keep the labour reform, pension reform and collective bargaining or cuts in unemployment benefits and public services in full force, despite your commitment to their repeal, all of which is a huge injury to all workers. In the current crisis situation, the fact that the Government continues to maintain labour reform means that the administration itself can make it easier for the current ERTE to end up being laid off. It is necessary and urgent to repeal in full the labour reform, but especially the articles that make it possible for companies, unilaterally and without control by the Administration, to decide on collective redundancies. This is what allows companies such as Alcoa or BorgWagner to implement their closure and relocation plans freely, without taking into account the social problems that the disappearance of these jobs will entail for the Galician economy. [[His intervention continues in Galician.]] I think it would be useful for them to be clear about this, because that is what the workers expect. It should also be borne in mind that, from day 181 on unemployment, the benefit received falls from 70 % to 50 % of the regulatory base, which means a severe cut in the income of many families. This is one of the consequences of the reforms in the benefits imposed by the People's Party in 2012 and which today PSOE and United We can keep in force. Moreover, the Government continues to use the funds provided by workers to Social Security, SEPE or Fogasa to finance the exemption from the agreed business quotas and, at the same time, increases public expenditure without giving fiscal alternatives that bet on the progressive as a rate to the great fortunes, for example, or without using truly expendable items such as those intended for military or summary expenditure, such as the support of the Royal House. Thus, all points out that, once again, it will be the popular classes, the workers and the workers, who will bear the cost of the crisis. For these and some other reasons, you will understand that we cannot vote in favour of this decree. We are not going to oppose it, but we are not going to vote in favour either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u88	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u89	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Minister, I am already telling you that we agree with the content of the royal decree because it is endorsed by social dialogue, but I will also reiterate to you what we have said to you in previous situations. We would like you, apart from the social dialogue, to appeal to dialogue with the other political groups. For this reason, we will also ask you to agree to treat it as a bill, because we believe that with the participation of political parties, many improvements can be made - some of which I will now comment on - from the perspective of the self-employed and from the perspective of exemptions to social security. But entering into the background of the royal decree, it is true that this royal decree is produced because on June 30 the ERTE ended by force majeure. I would like to point out one thing which I have also raised with the Government many times. The royal decree was passed on 26 June and even published on Saturday, 27 June. All the planning that companies can make, all the information that workers can have about whether they have to go to work or not, all the conciliation - as I told you before - of managers, administrators, social graduates, lawyers and economists, all this seems that you do not take it into account. Prioritizing that social dialogue is necessary, they generate uncertainty and a last minute play that we understand is totally disproportionate. And in this area I have to demand from now on that these ERTEs will end on 30 September. How long are we going to have to wait until September 24th, September 25th, September 26th, September 29th at night? We strongly ask you not to happen this show again with the end of the force majeure ERTE, which we already know right now ends on September 30th. At the time of the concrete improvements, by pointing out a couple of ideas, in the area of self-employed people, you open the door to companies being able to access force majeure for objective reasons, but instead, you condemn self-employed people to accredit a loss of 75% of their income, sending them virtually to ruin. That is to say, those who are not below 75 % of the income will not be eligible for aid or exemption. We therefore understand that there is a double standard here, which is highly harmful to the self-employed. Finally, you said that you have transcended the concept of ERTE. Indeed, it has already transcended, on the one hand - and you are right - by the protection that has been given in this situation arising from the COVID, but also by the situations that it has left pending. There are thousands of people who were in unemployment before the COVID occurred and who have hardly been able to find work during this period of coronavirus and confinement whose unemployment benefits have not at the moment been corrected or extended, when it is evident that many people have not been able to carry out this active search for employment and that the circumstances have not been ideal to carry it out either. Some solution must be given to those people who were already standing still, not by ERTE, but by previous causes. Some solution has to be given, minister, because you keep saying that ERTs are paid, that unemployment is paid, that unemployment is paid, but the same day you say this comes out the CSIF saying that there are thousands of ERTs uncollected and the schools of managers leave saying that there are about two hundred thousand people uncollected. I recommend the radio program RAC1 that once a week calls people to tell their stories with SEPE, how worn out they are about to try to interact with it, for the pending adjustments or because even some are still uncollected. Therefore, in order to defend all these people, we understand that all this has to be done with social dialogue, but also with dialogue with the political parties, because, as I always say, we will be here to help all these people, to continue to make an active policy that improves the lives of these people; without giving up wanting a state for Catalonia, but knowing that it is still necessary for this state to pass with better note the subjects that it has pending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u90	Thank you, Mr. Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u91	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Madam Minister, today we come from the Nissan demonstration at the gates of this Chamber. This is her T-shirt, our T-shirt, it's our people. [[Show your T-shirt, which has the #FutureForNissanYA hashtag printed.]] Madam Minister, we are especially addressing you, a part of the Government, the United We can. The PSOE, as my fellow Rufián says, does not do, is forced. You have the most important instrument to be able to solve this issue and many more, which is the BOE, the Council of Ministers. Just as you brought the royal decree-law to repeal Article 52(c) - very well brought, by the way, and we congratulate it - also bring the repeal of Article 51 of the Workers' Statute. And I'm sure he'll do it. With this we only solve the problem of Nissan and many more, among other things. [[Give it up.]] Let's get to the point. We have discrepancies, some important ones, which we are going to express in the form of amendments, because we are of course going to deal with this royal decree law as a bill. For the time being, three issues: one present, one future and one urgent, very urgent. First, a matter of present. ERTEs have worked relatively well. Despite our management discrepancies, especially in errors and delays in payment, it is fair to say - and to thank the workers - that what has been done in reference to the ERTE, which is a great instrument, is important. But we ask you to extend the deadline for these ERTs, because they were and are necessary, especially for some sectors. That is why we announce that we will vote in favour of your royal decree-law. Having said that, we have serious discrepancies in some points. The main issue is who pays the bill on the issue of ERTE, on the issue of Social Security. The issue of exemptions, the issue of exceptions in Social Security is that we pay the bill to the workers, who are the contributors to Social Security, not the rest of society. Of course, if we continue to pay the bill through Social Security money, we continue to decapitalize Social Security, which is the jewel of the workers' protection crown. And then he's going to be falsely indebted to Social Security, and this is where the whole show starts. We also regret another issue to which you committed yourself, that of establishing a benefit for parents who could not go to work because of the direct coronavirus. This is still pending and we hope that it will continue. Secondly, an issue of the immediate future which I have already reiterated to you a few times. We have been warning for a long time that what is needed is to put an end to the anti-social legislation that Rajoy and Zapatero implemented between 2008 and 2013, which remains in force, that nothing is still being done and will continue to be applied as soon as the social shield of which they allege disappears. There can be no social shield without dismantling the two labor reforms. At a minimum, they comply with the part that they say constitutes the most harmful phases. We are waiting for it, and it is already beginning to be a matter of urgency. One cannot have a social shield with the two labor reforms, with the 2013 pension reform and with repressive laws, such as the Law gags to combat political and trade union dissent, to combat workers' rights and the rights of peoples, which is the raison d'être of our party. The non-derogation of these rules, which you from the opposition have always criticized, is the worst and most dangerous of social policies, and it is not what our voters or yours expect. Thirdly, an urgent matter, so urgent that we are late. In Lleida, in Alcarras, Soses, Serós, Aitona, Le Granja de Escarpe, Masalcorreig, Torres del Segre, all the citizens of these municipalities are suffering. They are not the only ones, we know that, but we are quoting them so that this whole House will remember that they exist. We believe, minister, that you certainly empathize with these small, sparsely populated villages, which do not win elections, but in which there are citizens who have the same rights as in the big cities. Please do not abandon these municipalities of El Segrià or the others from any part of the state that may come and that we fear they may come. I'm finishing up. Seeing how things are going, seeing how people are suffering, not only because of illness and death, but also because they cannot work, because they cannot reach the end of the month, because they do not know if they are going to be fired, if they are going to be entitled to unemployment, if they are going to be able to keep their small business, just to start - the rest will come, as I said, in the form of amendments - I make three very concrete proposals, which I am sure you, Minister, knowing it, should already have in mind, because of your sensitivity. One, that no worker can be punished for lack of labour assistance in areas affected by rebounds and with public recommendations for confinement. Two, let no one suffer because they have been unemployed since February, because they continue to suffer and see how the end of their unemployment benefit is getting closer and closer without a real chance of finding a job. Three, something no one is talking about - well, it's been talked about a little bit, but I think it will be a reason to treat it in the coming weeks and months -, not to reduce the amount of unemployment after six months from the beginning of their perception. In mid-September workers who entered ERTE just at the beginning of the state of alarm will turn half a year into unemployment and you know that if they now charge 70% of their salary, from the seventh month onwards they will be paid half. We must urgently remedy this, Mrs Díaz, because it is a social emergency, without any justification and without any responsibility on the part of the workers, as well as on the part of the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. There are a lot of people who can't live with half a salary, who are already precarious by themselves; keep that in mind. As far as the self-employed are concerned, I would simply like to point out what my colleagues, also my colleague Rufián, had already said a few days ago: that protections should be extended in the outsourcing work until 31 December and that the loss limit should be revised by 70% rather than 50%. I think it's fairer and it should be. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you are competent. We're talking about Work and Social Security, this can't be fixed by a counselor from the Generalitat - we'd already like it, and that's why we want to be independent and fight to be independent - let alone a mayor, who's suffering like the one who's most. It is up to you to do this urgent work, and we therefore hope that you will accept our proposals. I would not like to end without mentioning the minimum living income, another of the jewels of the crown that you have achieved and for which we congratulate you, because it was necessary. There are people who cannot live and who urgently need this measure, but at the moment, according to official data, there are 75 000 people who have received it, and the promise was to reach 850 000 families and 2.3 million people. It is a minimum and vital income - I stress the word - because for people who need this money is essential. Thank you so much, and I'm sorry that it's been 20 seconds. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister. The first thing our group wants to do is to value social dialogue. We are aware that we will not always be able to reach agreements, that sometimes it will not be possible, but only the fact of the existence of social dialogue, only the fact that such important proposals are discussed between workers, entrepreneurs and government is something that, sadly, we were not used to, because previous governments were only debating, they were only arguing with the mirror in their house while they had millions of workers on the streets demanding that they rectify, and, sadly, they never did. Fortunately, the result of this social dialogue now exists this social agreement for the defence of employment, and from our parliamentary group we congratulate you and your entire team for having achieved it, because there are things that seem very easy but they carry a lot of invisible work from behind and are very complicated to achieve. I think it's fair to congratulate them when things get better. This agreement that is reflected in the real decree that we are debating and validating today is key to avoiding millions of layoffs, to avoid massive wage defaults and to prevent the cascade closure of many companies in this country. It allows working people and businesses to gradually join the business, with flexibility, ensuring the economic viability of businesses and thus the maintenance of employment. And I'm not talking about wishes or promises; it's a matter of facts, I'm talking about facts. This mechanism has produced very important results during the months of May and June. Of the close to 3.5 million people who entered ERTE, more than 2 million have already recovered their activity - both workers and businesses. And, of course, a mechanism like this, that of the ERTE, which mobilizes a brutal, massive amount of public resources, as many speakers have already said, must count, as it cannot otherwise be, with effective control to prevent the fraud and the stinging of certain unscrupulous entrepreneurs who dedicate themselves to living on public money. In this line, this royal decree contains aspects that we believe are of common sense, for example the exclusion from these measures of companies that have their tax domicile in tax havens. If you do not pay taxes here, you will not pretend to benefit from the measures covered by these taxes; it seems logical. In addition, the impossibility of sharing dividends in the year for companies that are enjoying such aid or measures, which also seems to be of pure common sense. Likewise, that no extra hours or new outsourcings in the activity can be carried out or new contracts concluded during the application of the ERTE, that is, if you have people in ERTE and you need all that, what you have to do is to get the people out of the ERTE; obviously, if not, we would be in a situation of fraud. Also, the ban on dismissal for reasons justifying the same ERTE should be maintained, because that is what the measure is for, as well as the commitment to maintain employment for six months from the existence of this tool. All this is fundamental and it is evident, as I said before, that it is avoiding suffering for millions of people. But there is no doubt that it is a protection network that is neither structural nor can have it, because basically contributions and public resources are not infinite. Therefore, it is key to legislate so that we abandon precariousness as a tax model that causes, apart from the suffering of the working people, tremendous fragility in our labour market; and this, unfortunately, is not an opinion, there are the data. The destruction of employment in the pandemic occurred mostly, and you know it and so you have exposed it, in temporary contracts, especially affecting young people. We must put an end to this fragility in the labour market, and that can only be done by legislating and, of course, by changing the productive model. It is key to firmly promote the law that is already preparing its ministry, together with civil society, to end the drama of the false autonomous, who are so fashionable in the evil so-called new economy despite judicial setbacks. It is also key to push the law to regulate distance work and prevent abuse, and I know, we know that your ministry is working in this direction. And, of course, it is equally important or more important not to take a step back in the repeal of labour reform and in the generation of a new framework of labour relations in our country. [[Give it up.]] Issues such as, for example, the restoration of the functioning of the conventions, the prevalence of industry agreements on corporate agreements and the strengthening of collective bargaining are urgent issues for many working people in the country and for the country's own economy. We know, we are perfectly aware, because we live it every day, that pressure is coming from all sides and from very powerful people both outside our borders and inside; it is more, outside our borders there are those who have help from people inside. These days we are seeing how the Dutch Prime Minister, who sometimes has delusions of being the master of the world, believes that in order for us, as a member of the European Union, to have access to the funds, we need to change and tighten the plugs even more to our pensioners and working people. I believe, we firmly believe, that the only pressures that we really have to deal with are those that the working people have to reach the end of the month, the pressures that people have to sign a collective company agreement with a yellow union set up by the bosses, those that people have with a temporary contract when it comes to the day it's going to end and they don't know if they're going to renew it or not. We firmly believe that these are the only pressures we have to deal with, because that's what they voted for and that's what we're here for. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u94	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Royal Decree-Law 24/2020. We cannot vote in favour of this validation because it is a new sign of the legal uncertainty that this Government is constantly causing, which is the least in need of any economic recovery. And I am going to focus solely and exclusively on what is laid down on the social agreement for the employment of Title I. It is curious that this agreement between the so-called social partners and the Government on the development of ERTE and the measures of the so-called evil safeguard of employment will be formalised only a few days, a few hours before 30 June, the date scheduled for the completion of them, in the face of the logic of insecurity of all those affected, extending them until 30 September. We already hope that in many companies - more than those provided for in the standard - health-related and other limitations will have to be extended in view of the fact that many companies are unable to reactivate because of the obstacles being put in place by the Government. Stay here with the date of 1 October - again on 1 October - when the dripping or avalanche of competitions will begin in the commercial courts; agreements that come to rectify errors recognized even expressly in the explanatory statement of the Royal Decree-Law 15/2020; agreements that are signed with a corporate confederation on many occasions saddened by the abuses and ex-abrupts of the Government and specific trade unions of class that are treacherous, ineffective, inefficient, subsidized, servants and silent, simple belts of transmission of ideological sotrolass, hardly representative, which without a doubt makes it essential to break out of a union in Spain in solidarity that represents workers without distinctions, without partisan interests, aware of the defense of their rights and that advocates for the survival and growth of companies as a worthy source of work. [[Give it up.]] We said that we are before the Government of the legal uncertainty that this executive constantly causes and to which it contributes part of the Legislative Chamber, a kind of thing that they will say alien to the lament of advisers, companies, lawyers, workers, managers, officials, all of them desperate in the face of so much procedural uncertainty that we see again embodied in this royal decree-law. And serve as brushes the following. Firstly, legal uncertainty as to the third article, because in the event of a resurgence of companies that have renounced an ERTE because of force majeure of article 22 of Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 - original sin of subsequent ones - they must go to an ERTE on the basis of article 47.3 of the Workers' Statute, with all the formalities and complexity that this represents. Minister, are you aware of what it means? Are you aware that by the time the company presents and resolves, it will be closed? Are they aware of what this process entails and the complication for small and medium-sized enterprises? Obviously not; it gives them absolutely the same, I'm afraid. Instead of helping with reconstruction, we use it to sink business projects that give and sustain jobs, to subject them to a maze of meaningless administrative truths. Secondly, legal uncertainty in relation to the ERTE Cetop of article 23 of Royal Decree-Law 8/2020. Why has the passage of an ERTE from force majeure to an ERTE Cetop not been authorized if in the end we can say that the causes of almost all ERTE Cetop presented these days are for productive causes? It is incomprehensible that small businesses should have to restart a period of consultation, when both workers and employers have not yet taken over SEPE and do not know what is going to happen to their jobs. Was it necessary to expose such workers and entrepreneurs so much to this calvary? This has already been raised, Madam Minister, expressly in the appearance of 21 April as a future problem, but no case. Also, legal uncertainty because the rule prohibits overtime if the company is in ERTE in administration and there is a productive tip. Can it be understood that it is forbidden to take advantage of it? Only the workers, the employment itself, are injured. Don't you realize it's absurd? This is a constant question from many small entrepreneurs, but you are in something else. Correction of errors that have just given us a few minutes ago, Minister, according to which, in fact, they must accept that there can be resumed externalisations that already existed. Legal uncertainty following article 6, safeguarding employment, of the sixth additional provision of the famous 8/2020; we insist, original sin. To this day, two months after the publication of Royal Decree 18/2020 of 12 May, there is still no clarification either through royal decree-law or office in the General Directorate of Labour of the Ministry of Labour or of the General Treasury of Social Security if in case of non-compliance the social security contributions have to be returned more burden, more interest of delay of the fired worker or of the whole ERTE. This has paralyzed thousands of companies that need personal adjustment but cannot be afraid of being sanctioned with the return of the entire ERTE. Legal insecurity of article 7, with reference to articles 2 and 5 of Royal Decree 9/2020. It extends until 30 September what is known as a ban on dismissal, which is not such, but an increase for direct inadmissibility. Why are you lying like that? Minister, where are the fighting class unions? It is not permitted - through the ostensibly increasing of them - to make individual dismissals of articles 52 and 53 of the Workers' Statute or ERE, collective dismissals of 51 of the Workers' Statute, when there are thousands of companies that need to adjust their staffing. All this undoubtedly violates article 38 of the Constitution, freedom of enterprise in a market economy such as we are in. Royal Decree 9, article 5, implies a false and unreal extension of temporary contracts in order to avoid the inevitable image of actual figures. We know that on many occasions - and you know it - it will be unreal, since there will no longer be the work or service determined or because the worker is no longer needed, for example, during Holy Week. It is to extend for months and months to cover up the tragic reality of employment. In short, before my colleague Víctor González has explained some of the solutions, but the government of intervention, of subsidy, of unemployment, of the queues of hunger, of inefficiency, of control and of course of legal insecurity is the one that is leading us to ruin. Minister, of course, still doesn't call VOX. Address the problems of real Spain, stop thinking about the Galician elections, have already passed, as have the times of its nightly policies. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u96	Thank you, Mr. Aizcorbe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Madam Queen Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u97	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today it is twenty years since the murder of my colleague and councilman José María Martín Carpena by the terrorist band ETA in front of his wife and daughter. It serves today to remove the consciences of those who want to whitewash the history of terrorism and of those who protected it and still continue to protect it today. It's for you, dear José María Martín Carpena. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and VOX, stood up.]] On the subject, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party is going to support this royal decree precisely because it is agreed in the social dialogue with employers and trade unions. Madam Minister, welcome to the social dialogue, which you broke stupendously when you signed with Bildu the repeal of labour reform. But let's talk about ERTE, what's going to happen after September 30th? You know that the evolution of ERTE after September 30 is key to the recovery of the labour market. You said even the children would know what an ERTE was. And so much they've known! Like parents have been months and months off! What do you laugh so much about when you give the dramatic unemployment figures? Let's talk about June's unemployment. For the first time, unemployment has risen in June since 2008, there are 28% more unemployed in the last year. Social Security has lost almost 900,000 members in the past year. Youth unemployment doubles the European average. Undefined recruitment does not reach 10 % and fell by 35 % in June. It increases female unemployment; minister, female domestic workers - who are mainly women - have not been receiving help for more than four months now. I'd be ashamed of myself. There are 422,000 fewer women working than a year ago. That is the propaganda feminism of his Government. There are 700,000 more unemployed than when Sanchez arrived in the government. We have the worst government at the worst time and, look, in January, before the coronavirus, 244,000 jobs were destroyed, I repeat, 244,000, the worst number. I mean, before the coronavirus was already going up the unemployment and now it's shooting itself. That is what the Government of Pedro Sánchez has brought us: more unemployment, more poverty, less employment, less business and less self-employment. Pedro Sánchez said he wouldn't sleep, with Podemos in the government. We know you lied to all of Spain. I ask you: do you sleep quietly, minister? That's what she asked the Popular Party minister when Spain was the most employment-creating country in the whole European Union: 600,000 jobs on average a year. Now that unemployment is growing ten times more than the European average and the triple that Germany I ask you: do you sleep quietly, Minister? I think the one who doesn't sleep very quietly is his boss, Mr. Iglesias, keeping his cell phone card, threatening journalists... This smells bad, this smells like mud and smells like machismo. But anyway, let's get on with the job. We must be on the side of the workers, so we propose to extend the ERTE until the end of the year or even the end of the first quarter of the following year. Because you can't leave the workers out of the weather. That sounds to you, doesn't it, minister? You will be responsible for those ERTEs becoming EREs; by the way, EREs that have made it possible to cap the crisis thanks to the modification introduced by the People's Party. We are the champions in Europe of temporality, unemployment and labour poverty. Yes, Yolanda Díaz, year 2018. What have you done to improve this? Nothing, nothing. [[Minister of Labour and Social Economy, Díaz Pérez: Nothing, nothing...]] Return to the left and return the historical figures of unemployment. By the way, pay over $5 million in unemployment benefits and get the hell out of it, me you'd make me look at it. [[Give it up.]] Let him look at it. If there is no job endangers pensions, the ghost of freezing with the left returns. A curious fact, in June the affiliation grows in Galicia the triple that in Spain. Do you know why? Not because you're a Galician, but because there you rule the Popular Party and you rule Feijoo. Which, by the way, I take advantage of to congratulate you, which I cannot do with you because Podemos has sunk, has disappeared from the Galician map. [[applause]] [[Give it up.]] And you know why? We can't because they don't trust you, either inside or outside Spain. And if you don't ask Minister Calviño to be slapped, you've been in full negotiation of the European fund, which is key to saving our economy. They do not want them in Galicia, Spain or Europe. Let him look at it, ladies and gentlemen. Electro-intensive. Too bad, companies agonizing for their unfulfilled promises! Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens - who are now the new palm trees of the PSOE - stop scolding us and fix your house, who are also on their way to disappear. But do you know what the real problem is? That you do not have a plan for Spain, neither now nor from 30 September. We will not get stronger, the fall in GDP will be 15%, the deficit will exceed 10%. We will lead the global economic collapse and it is that you are specialists in creating uncertainty. And the pact with Bildu for the repeal of labour reform has caused panic, ladies and gentlemen. Investors are driven away. And you know what your solution to all this is? Massive rise in taxes, the opposite is being done by the countries of the European Union. When the left talks about social justice, take your hands to the wallet because they're going to fry us at taxes. By the way, to Nissan's workers, our support, but I want to remind you that it was Mr Sánchez who said in Davos that the job was guaranteed. [[Give it up.]] As far as self-employed people are concerned, they have been suffering from the desirousness and abandonment of their government for months; 20 000 self-employed people have disappeared in the health crisis, but it is not new, it is that in the last year more than 41 000 have had to close their business. I finish as I started: welcome to social dialogue, does well to renew your position; I remind you that you - you - boycotted the agreement in the Toledo Pact on pensions in the previous legislature. It is a decree that remains short because October is around the corner, because we already have the worst official unemployment figures in the whole European Union, and I ask you not to do any more damage in the economy and in employment because you will end up paying millions of Spaniards, although more and more people know that with you, with the left and with the extreme left, Spain always returns to the queues of unemployment and hunger. That is the new normality but, of course, I tell you that we, the People's Group, have changed it twice and we will do it again by the hand of Pablo Casado and the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Requena Ruiz: All right!-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Spain. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Narváez Bandera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u99	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to this rostrum to state that the Socialist Parliamentary Group will support the consideration of this royal decree-law. This is a rule that reflects once again the concern of a Government to protect employment, to avoid the destruction of jobs and to sustain the productive fabric; consequently, it extends the protection of self-employed and self-employed workers. In the early stages of this pandemic, measures have already been taken to preserve employment and protect the most vulnerable. We remember that it was and is the priority objective of this Government and of the President not leaving anyone behind and helping those who need it most. This was regulated in Royal Decree-Law 8/2020. This one, of which validation is requested in this House today, again affects this need for protection. And you will agree with me that since the pandemic broke out - I do not know whether Mrs Spain is aware that we are in a pandemic that does not leave us in a truce - this Government has not spared resources in order to protect people, measures which have been taken in parallel with others aimed at laying the foundations for a fairer economic recovery. [[Spain Queen: Before, before]] This pandemic has placed us in an unusual situation of uncertainty, in which it is not easy to see the effectiveness of the measures taken. Its effects continue to affect businesses, which are still, of course, not fully active, and workers, who are to be provided with the resources necessary for the replacement of lost income. That is why this royal decree-law aims to continue with the necessary measures for the protection of employment and the gradual recovery of economic activity, measures taken, as has already been said here, from the necessary social dialogue, dialogue with trade unions - for which the deputy of VOX has not spared in qualifications - and the employer. It must be remembered that social dialogue is established with trade unions and employers, and we are aware that only these shared decisions are a guarantee of effectiveness. We are faced with a Government that is able to listen and has acted responsibly, taking action as the situation caused by COVID has evolved. The result of this dialogue for the defence of employment is what has allowed the ERTEs to be extended until 30 September, allowing the companies to reintegrate the workers to the extent that they have been needed for the development of their activity, and this has given safety and tranquillity to the companies and the workers. By the end of September, more than 3.4 million people will have been in an ERTE. The ERTEs, even if Mrs Spain says that she would be ashamed of it, have made an investment of EUR 5400 million until June. As I will tell you, in my province, in Malaga, more than 120 000 workers have been admitted to an ERTE, amounting to EUR 222 million. This is to protect people and their families, to protect more than 400,000 workers from hospitality and catering, to protect more than 250,000 workers in the trade sector, to protect workers who provide their services in education companies, to protect construction workers and to protect workers for a long time. It is also protected by allowing unemployment benefits to be extended until 30 September and, in the case of permanent workers, until 31 December. It is protected by allowing them to cover these unemployment benefits for workers who, even if they had not contributed enough time to do so, are receiving them. This is how our country's social shield and economy are maintained. [[Give it up.]] Companies are also protected by allowing workers' social contributions not to be paid in certain percentages ranging from 70% to 35% during the months of July, August and September. And it protects the self-employed as well, a collective that worries all groups in this House. Let us ask these self-employed people whether they prefer to benefit from the aid that was given in 2012, of which I do not remember any, or prefer to benefit from the termination of activity in 2020 and from the exemptions in the contribution, measures that this Royal Decree-Law extends until 30 September, 100 % of the contributions for the month of July, 50 % of the contribution in August and 25 % of September. It is also protected in this royal decree-law for the first time to the season self-employed, those who are alone high in the periods from March to October and which in some cases had not even been discharged when the state of alarm was decreed. For the first time, they will have the right to cease their activity for a period of four months with retroactive effect, as the minister has said, since 1 June and without the obligation to contribute. [[Give it up.]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, this government knows how to listen and is trying to reach out to all groups of working people. This government is really trying to keep no one behind and we could compare the aid that this group of self-employed people has received since the start of the pandemic, charging an average of EUR 670 per month, which is what they have been collecting, plus the exemption from social security contributions, and the aid that has been provided in some self-employed communities, for example in Andalusia. The government of Juanma Moreno presupposed and published aid that has barely reached 4% of the Andalusian self-employed. It gives the impression that they made this measure so as not to spend a hard one because barely 10% of the budget has been implemented. In the face of this, this Government has supported more than 236,000 Andalusian autonomous people. In Malaga alone, 61,000 self-employed persons have ceased their activity. With direct support like this is how it protects this sector and not with a media report. They have made many more Andalusian municipalities within their possibilities than the Government of the Andalusian Junta. Can we do more, ladies and gentlemen? Certainly, but in a responsible way I believe that this Government has done what it should, facilitating with all these measures the recovery of business activity and the protection of employment. I, who have been in municipal politics for a few years in my people, El BurgoSierra de las Nieves, have always tried to make and support viable and sensible proposals, whether we have been ruling or in opposition, because that is what citizens expect of us. Ladies and gentlemen, recovery is a matter for everyone and this decree will certainly help to follow that path. That is why the Socialist Group will support him. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Narváez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 25/2020, OF 3 JULY, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES TO SUPPORT ECONOMIC REACTIVATION AND EMPLOYMENT. [[File number 130/000026]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u101	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 25/2020 of 3 July of urgent measures to support economic recovery and employment. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u102	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this House to defend for the sixth time since the pandemic began the validation of a real decree-law of urgent measures to deal with the consequences of this health crisis and this economic and social crisis. Fortunately, the circumstances in which we are at the moment are very different from those in previous weeks, when I went to your ladies and gentlemen to ask for your support for measures that have made it possible to preserve the productive fabric and employment of our country and to avoid a great deal of additional suffering for all citizens. In this sense, in pain, we must be proud to be doing good service to our country in a united way; because, although it has been the Government that has been proposing the different action packages as the situation evolved, the merit of the results achieved is that of the country as a whole. As I pointed out earlier in this House, economic reconstruction does not begin now, but begins with the first package of measures adopted and all those that have followed it. Thanks to this determined response, Spain is now in a different situation and the short-term indicators available show a change in trend with the gradual recovery of economic activity and employment. However, this does not hide the fact that physical distancing measures and limitations on mobility, which are essential for controlling the transmission of the virus, have had and continue to have a huge impact on productive activity and on the well-being of citizens. These effects have been noted both in supply, with difficulties for supply chains and temporary business closure, and in domestic and external demand, with a significant impact on some sectors essential to our economy, such as tourism. The magnitude of this situation is unprecedented and, therefore, we have spared no effort to address the transitional difficulties of businesses and citizens, beginning last March and looking to the future. The lines of endorsement, the flexibility of the temporary employment regulation dossiers - of which we have just spoken -, the extraordinary benefit for self-employed people - we have also just talked about this issue - and the almost 100 additional measures that we have been putting in place among all to support business and family incomes are effectively fulfilling their objective. Overall, measures with a budgetary impact of almost 4% of GDP and liquidity support measures equivalent to 11% of GDP have been taken to address the impact of confinement on economic activity. Overcoming that first phase in which the basic thing was to resist, we are now immersed in a second phase, in which the priority is to reactivate our economy and support job creation and investment, focusing our efforts in the second half of the year, key to achieving robust and sustainable growth in the period 20212022. To this end, we need to adapt, complement and expand the various instruments launched over the last four months to consolidate what has been achieved in terms of the protection of the productive fabric and employment. That is what we have been doing with the legislation that we have been adopting in recent weeks and that has now been brought to validation, focusing on different objectives. On the one hand, in reviving the renewable energy market, taking full advantage of its potential in terms of employment generation. Also in strengthening support for large energy consumers, creating a Spanish reserve fund for electro-intensive guarantees, which will serve to support the signing of long-term bilateral contracts. We have also extended the ERTE until the end of September, adapting them to encourage the reinstatement of workers, thus complying with what was signed with the social partners in the employment agreement signed a few days ago. And we have also extended the special protection regime for the self-employed, including many other social protection measures for the most vulnerable. And that is without forgetting the specific plans that we have put in place for the tourism sector, the automotive sector and the transport sector, which are very affected by the pandemic, which will also be a major revulsive, an important contribution thanks to the more than 8 billion investments that are associated with it. In this regard, I would also like to mention the clash plan for science that was presented a few days ago. In short, there are many measures and initiatives that we have been pushing to accelerate the revival, which has already begun in our economy, and to support thousands of jobs. This is also what the royal decree-law that I bring today for validation pursues. This includes measures that can be summarized into four large blocks. A first group of measures aims to strengthen business solvency and boost the investment needed to revive the economy. If during the confinement the priority was to tackle the liquidity problems arising from the lack of economic activity, which could have resulted in chain effects and a very deep fall in our economy, now that companies can begin to cover their liquidity needs by their own means, we must boost the investment activity in order to get the economy to grow. In other words, it is essential to prevent liquidity problems caused by confinement from becoming solvency problems and perfectly viable and strategic companies for the country from becoming bankrupt. And this must be done by ensuring that public resources are designed to optimize return for society as a whole, protecting the general interest. To this end, this Royal Decree-Law includes, first of all, a new line of endorsements of the Official Credit Institute amounting to EUR 40 billion, which will be aimed at promoting the financing granted by supervised financial undertakings to enterprises and self-employed persons for the realization of new investments generating added value, in particular by focusing on the transformation necessary for environmental sustainability and digitisation. Because in order to combat the crisis, to boost economic and social recovery and to promote future growth, it is not enough to preserve the productive fabric, but rather to adapt it to the structural changes that are going to accelerate and are accelerating as a result of the health crisis. Therefore, investments that can provide such potential growth, productivity and the long-term sustainability of our economy must be facilitated. In view of the excellent functioning of the liquidity lines of EUR 100 billion that we have authorised in these months, of which until last Sunday more than EUR 67,400 million has already been made available in 704 155 operations, 97% of which with SMEs and self-employed, which have enabled almost EUR 88,700 million to be mobilised for the productive fabric, we have opted for a similar operation, whose specific conditions will be defined in successive Council of Ministers agreements, as the tranches are being released. Secondly, the Royal Decree-Law establishes the creation of a fund to support the solvency of strategic enterprises, which will initially be endowed with 10 billion euros that will manage a management council within the State Society of Industrial Participations, SEPI. Its operation shall consist of aid for the taking of financial instruments, including, for example, subordinated debt, hybrid instruments, shares or social holdings in the capital of solvent non-financial undertakings which may need reinforcement in the face of the extraordinary fall in activity and which are considered to be strategic for the productive fabric in terms of social or economic impact or relevance to the safety, health of persons, infrastructure, communications or their contribution to the proper functioning of the markets. It is a temporary instrument that complies with European state aid rules and is well aligned with a new mechanism proposed at Community level, the solvency support mechanism, proposed by the European Commission. It is an instrument that will serve as a last resort lever for cases where credit or liquidity measures are not sufficient to ensure the maintenance of business activity, which - as I said - are experiencing severe temporary difficulties as a result of the pandemic. Therefore, the conditions for the implementation of this fund are strict. The operations must be requested by the beneficiaries, authorised by the Council of Ministers, and the aid will be subject to plans to divest State participation which, in any case, will be remunerated in line with the provisions of the above-mentioned European Union State aid framework. Thirdly, this royal decree-law extends to listed companies the possibility of accessing the extraordinary line of circulating credit coverage, managed by the Spanish Export Credit Insurance Company, Cece, initially designed only for SMEs and non-listed companies. We considered it appropriate to extend the scope of application, because initially it was thought that listed companies had better access to financing, but yet the impact of this crisis is being felt equally in all business segments, and the sector of activity is being more decisive than the size of the company, ultimately, to access public financing, so some listed companies are finding it difficult to finance themselves. Fourthly, the provision of the External Investment Fund, the FIEX, will be strengthened from €10 million to €100 million, with the aim of supporting the internationalisation of our companies, one of the vectors, one of the key levers of our economic recovery. This is a first block, but, beyond measures to support liquidity and strengthen solvency, a second block of this royal decree-law focuses on the reactivation of sectors particularly affected by the health crisis, thus developing and implementing some of the elements contained in the sectoral agreements recently signed with the tourism and automotive sector. With regard to the tourism sector, which has been given priority attention since the beginning of this crisis, with more than EUR 12 billion dedicated to this area, only counting the ICO lines deployed so far and the ERTE, four measures are foreseen in this royal decree-law. Firstly, a moratorium on the payment of principal mortgage loans for buildings affected by sectoral activity, such as hotels, tourist accommodation and travel agencies. This means that payment of the principal of the loans is suspended during the period requested by the debtor, with a maximum of 12 months, where there are financial difficulties resulting from a fall in income or turnover of at least 40 % between March and May compared to the same months of 2019. This moratorium may also be requested at the request of the tenant of the property, even if the debtor has no economic difficulties, provided that the quotas and the corresponding modification are redistributed and also benefit the tenant. In order to qualify for this measure, certain conditions must be met, such as not having incurred arrears or having entered into a tender with creditors, not distributing profits, making capital repayments, buying back own shares, or remunerating capital in any form until the moratorium has ended; or, in the case of rented properties, a moratorium of at least 70 % of the amount of the mortgage default must be granted to tenants. In addition, the moratorium is accompanied by a 50 % bonus of notarial fees and the registration of the property that is required to be paid, as well as any other taxes or taxes. According to data from the Banco de España, it is estimated that this measure will reach the main mortgage loan for a total of €904 million. Secondly, the programme of tourism sustainability plans in destinations is regulated, which will support investment in actions to boost, adapt and improve the mature and rural tourist destinations in the interior of Spain. In total, the budget for this programme amounts to €23 million this year and an additional €30 million until 2022, which will help the sector to have safety and hygiene programmes and protocols to properly serve and transmit confidence to tourists. Thirdly, there is a line of repayable loans amounting to EUR 216 million to meet the investment needs of destinations and tourism companies affected by COVID-19 in areas such as digital transformation or R & D+i in the sector. Fourthly, in the months of July to October, social security subsidies are extended to cover fixed, discontinuous contracts in the tourism, hospitality and trade sectors linked to tourism, under the same conditions as it was in force between February and June, a very important issue for some of the territories of our country. As far as the automotive sector is concerned, the Royal Decree-Law regulates the Programme for the renewal of the Spanish fleet, known as Plan RENOVE, with a budget of 250 million euros to encourage the replacement of older vehicles by cleaner and safer models, incorporating environmental criteria, but respecting technological neutrality. The aid will be granted directly and will range from EUR 300 to EUR 4000, with additional amounts for the flattening of a vehicle over 20 years old, for beneficiaries with reduced mobility or for those belonging to low-income households. The expected economic impact of this programme is estimated at more than EUR 11 billion and 7400 jobs throughout the value chain and the services associated with the automotive ecosystem. Finally, the Royal Decree-Law includes three additional measures of a different nature. On the one hand, the period of suspension of the right to separate members in the event of separation for lack of dividends is extended until 31 December this year. In this way, companies are allowed to retain the dividend so that they can have greater solvency and be able to cope with economic recovery with a boost. Public-private collaboration mechanisms in the area of public financing of R & D+i projects are also being put in place to obtain treatment against COVID-19. The aim of this measure is to overcome any difficulties in the escalation and production of these medicines or health products, which may lead to shortages of stocks to meet domestic demand. Finally, amendments are included in the Royal Decree-Law 20/2020, which establishes the minimum living income, to give the necessary legal coverage to the National Social Security Institute to exchange information with autonomous communities and municipalities for the purpose of recognition and control of the benefit. Together, the measures contained in this Royal Decree-Law will mobilise some €51.5 billion of public resources between guarantees, grants, funds, loans and tax subsidies. I always like to point out this element so that we are all aware of the collective effort that Spanish citizens are making to support the productive fabric and employment in this extraordinary situation. This means that, taking into account the expansion of ERTs and the self-employment benefit - which has also been brought for validation today - the COVID-19 Fund for the Autonomous Communities - which has been brought for validation today - the automotive and tourism schemes, the Education in Digital programme, the Solvency Support Fund and the new ICO investment guarantees - the budgetary impact already reached 5% of GDP by 2020 and liquidity measures amount to more than 15% of our country's gross domestic product. An effort, as I said, of all the Spaniards to get our economy reactivated so that we can return as soon as possible to the solid, inclusive and sustainable growth path on which we were until this extraordinary situation began. And in this way, what we intend to do is to be in the best possible conditions to deal with the third phase of recovery, which involves relaunching our activity with a plan of investments and reforms in which we are working and which will allow us to project the Spanish economy in the coming decades, taking advantage of the mobilization of public and private resources to modernize our productive fabric. In fact, as I have just described to you, many of the measures contained in this royal decree-law are already designed to begin this path of reorientation, adaptation, modernization of our productive fabric towards sectors with greater potential growth, which will allow the potential impact of these aids to be felt not only on the recipient companies, but on the whole of our country's economic activity. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen. None escapes that this is a real decree-law with very important measures to support our companies and accompany them at this time of reactivation. That is why we hope to have the support of all the groups in this House, who will be able to see their importance. The current circumstances require a public policy aimed at achieving objectives well defined by the Government and whose implementation requires extraordinary and urgent implementation. The situation that our country has been facing since the declaration of the state of alarm, which has just concluded, generates a confluence of reasons that justify the extraordinary and urgent need to adopt these measures and of this royal decree-law, which I hope today we can validate because just as unity has saved lives, unity can save businesses and jobs. This is the spirit with which I come today and this is the spirit with which I hope we will end the day. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u103	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Madam Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. I will vote in favour of the validation of this Royal Decree-Law of urgent measures to support the economic revival and employment that you have just presented. And I take this opportunity to regret that Spain has not been able to achieve in its own person the Presidency of the Eurogroup; regardless of political colors it is undoubtedly good for the Spaniards to have a presence at the highest of the institutions that mark the pace of the economy and even more in storm times with important social derivatives. So we all lose without Mrs Calviño at the head of coordination between the economic policies of the euro area Member States. [[The Lord]] With regard to this legislative initiative, I would like to highlight some aspects that I am surprised that have not been taken into account in the months of the health crisis, although at last they appear in the Government's priorities for economic recovery and, therefore, for progress in the consolidation of the productive fabric and in employment. In this regard, I believe that the measures envisaged to boost the value chain in the automotive industry and also those relating to the boost for the tourism sector, which you have said has been given priority by the Government, have been long overdue, but I am afraid that its protagonists do not feel that way. It should even be recalled that both sectors, which are capital to our economy and to employment, have been the subject of some unfortunate and damaging comments by members of the Government. Energy measures are also clearly insufficient. I have already said this several times in this rostrum throughout this very plenary because the Government has specialised in patching up the serious consequences of the high price of electricity for the competitiveness of large and small enterprises and also of industry as a whole. Legislative production to allegedly strengthen the industrial sector intensive in the use of electric energy is a patch to cap a time frame generated by the Government itself with its own unfulfilled commitments. It is better that I tell the main victims of a situation that has dragged the Spaniards to pay the highest electricity price in the European Union and, in particular, the workers of companies such as Alcoa or ArcelorMittal, among others, who are threatened by jobs that were historically qualified, stable and, in addition, pillars of the economy for large areas of population. Without essential measures, such as an electro-intensive consumer status that harmonises the high energy costs of our industry with those of our European competitors, we are not going anywhere or, in other words, we are going to the garage. I therefore continue to call on the Government to take urgent measures to curb the closure of production-related companies with a high energy cost. Some of you have been in government for more than two years and no longer serve the pretexts to stop dealing with these matters, which have ceased to be a priority to become a matter of emergency. In this royal decree-law there is a touch that accommodates the measures to what it is to become economic throughout the European Union, although we miss a greater agility in the implementation of the measures that provide support to the large sectors that sustain a substantial part of the national gross domestic product. A country like Spain, which has one of its fundamental economic pillars in tourism, needs its top political leaders to be world leaders in order to propose measures that provide oxygen to the situation of asphyxiation that passes through the subsectors that give life to the tourism industry. However, we are going to rebuff what other competing countries do, in the case of France or Italy, with everything that this implies when we are immersed in the summer campaign. A similar case is that of the automobile, which has in the government one of its main detractors. How much damage has been done, Mrs Calviño, by the statements made by your colleague from the blue bank, Minister Ribera, to the car sector, including not only that of the manufacture of vehicles, but also that of components and dealers. This morning at first we saw some Nissan workers in the vicinity of Congress and I regret that the government was late. Here, too, we are rebuking what other countries are doing, but we have to welcome - and I do - the Renove 2020 vehicle renewal programme. In any case, the mobilization of resources that you detailed through this royal decree-law is a relevant, timely and necessary issue, so you will have my vote in favour. We will be paying attention to that investment and reform plan, in which you are already working to achieve the third phase that is coming for the whole of our productive sector. I will vote, as I say, in favour. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Next, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u106	Thank you. I'll speak briefly. You have presented, Madam Vice-President, a line of measures which is very broad, which includes very many amounts and very many sectors and it is impossible to disagree with some - even enough - of these initiatives, but it is no less true that it is also impossible - in fact, it is very feasible and you will see it - to disagree with some of those you have raised. I believe that what best summarizes this balance position is its definition of what the horizon we have to go to; I tell you without warm cloths, we quite disagree. That is, if you pose that the effort that all Spaniards are making has to be used to reactivate the economy in parameters of inclusiveness and sustainability such as those we had before the crisis, we already tell you that we do not count on it. For us it was not an inclusive market, we were not in an inclusive economic reality when we saw that the feminization of poverty was chronicled; when we saw that the wage gap was a constant; when we saw that young people had to look for what they did not find here; when we saw how - and the Secretary General of the Confederation of Workers' Unions of the Spanish State also told us - the temporality had increased, even with the 2012 labour reform. If that's the inclusiveness you're talking about, of course we're not going to participate in it. That's why we tell them; we make a lack of determination. Some will say that our proposals are radical; I waste little time thinking whether or not they are right because I really don't care that they say that my proposals are radical. But what you can't do is try to please tyrios and Trojans. You cannot propose measures in one direction with other measures that serve as warm cloths to appease those who would like another direction because it is not sustainable either. We can talk about Renove plans and everything we want, about economic reactivation with ecological neutrality, as has been said, but in six months - I hope six months and not a year - we will be talking about the enormous duties we have to fulfil the 2030 Agenda and the enormous duties we have as a society to fulfil the agenda to curb climate change. In essence, what they are now proposing are measures that have a purely developmental character and have little to do with this search for the reduction of pollutant gas emissions, with the greening of the economic model. Therefore, we do not find too many reasons to be happy with that, beyond the fact that we may well find certain lines of aid to small and medium-sized enterprises; beyond the fact that we can understand that we must reactivate economic sectors or, even, beyond the fact that we can share with you the definition - which at last seems to be possible and is no longer an element that serves to call anyone pro-Soviet, which would not be a bad thing either - of strategic sectors in the economy of a society. But you are talking about the strategic nature of certain companies, and you therefore suggest that we must help them and point out that we must be able to attract public money to enter them, but then you point out that we must leave as soon as possible because, if not, the European Union will punish us. I do not know - we have always discussed this in this House - why the Spanish state is more timid or pacate when it comes to fearing European sanctions than are the French or the Germans, who are able to intervene in a much more risky way with public money in strategic companies. However, here what we always see is that strategic companies are involved when they are very bad - frankly bad, I would almost say that in the UVI - and, when they are reflected with public money, they pass into private hands and, moreover, with prices of balance, of real cabbage, so that someone keeps making more money with the money that everyone has already invested. That's just outrageous. There are examples, it is not necessary to point out many, we have lived it with Euskaltel. Euskaltel was a public telecommunications company that has decided to privatize and the money that all Basques and Basques have contributed to that company will now be enjoyed by their private investors, but certainly not the Basque society that had at its heart to have such a public company. So we don't agree with that at all. I will simply point out two questions to be faithful to what I have said about shortness. First, we believe that in the face of relocations like the ones we are living - because the automobile sector is mentioned and those of Nissan are out there, but when we talk about technological sectors the Siemens Gamesa are on the street in Aoiz and in Nafarroa - we have to talk about relocations. We need a commitment decided by the public authorities and by public intervention, and we say so. The other is that, in the face of donations and aid, in the face of the State's willingness to be generous with companies to remain on national soil, what needs to be done is to impose obligations on them and also, why not, state intervention in strategic sectors without thinking about sanitation horizons so that they can then move back into private hands.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u107	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea then has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u108	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing here the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 25/2020, a decree in line with the previous ones that have been adopted during the crisis of the COVID-19 and with which a series of economic measures have been adopted - today also this decree - to support companies affected by the crisis, the productive sector, employment and income. In this regard, we believe that all available means should be used to try to alleviate the negative effects of COVID and thus avoid the destruction of the productive economic fabric. For us in the short term it is a priority to strengthen this fabric and then, a posteriori, to modernize it to ensure growth. It is a decree to support economic recovery and employment, which contains, among others, a number of measures focused on the tourism sector, one of the most affected by COVID and which represents a significant percentage of GDP. For this reason, mortgage moratoriums, extraordinary financing systems for projects for digital transformation and innovation, tourism sustainability plans and measures to support the extension of the period of activity of workers with fixed discontinuous contracts are established. This last measure was already approved in another royal decree-law earlier and also counted on the favorable vote of this group. Therefore, today we will do the same. On the other hand, the decree establishes a new line of guarantees for businesses and self-employed people and, unlike the previous line regulated by Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 to meet liquidity needs, it aims to promote investment-oriented financing, an issue that this parliamentary group has already requested in some resolution proposal regarding the first alarm decree, which was not met, but which is now adopted in this royal decree. In addition, it includes a Renovation Plan that we consider necessary because the car park is a very high average age and therefore with a strong presence of vehicles that meet Euro 4 or previous emission standards. We believe that these old vehicles should be replaced as soon as possible by much more efficient vehicles and be used for flattening by achieving two objectives: to reduce emissions of both polluting and greenhouse gases and to reactivate the vehicle manufacturing and distribution sectors. A fund is also set up to take shares in companies, enter the capital of companies that are in difficulty and request it through SEPI. To this end, they must have a viability plan and the problems have had to arise since the crisis of the coronavirus. In addition, it is an entry into the capital that will not interfere with the management of the enterprises, an entry of the State into the capital of the enterprises that can help their survival. Of course we agree because in Euskadi we have a fund - much smaller - called Finkatuz for taking shares in a company, and we understand that it has to be a financing tool with a model of intervention, that is, reasoned and efficient. It is not worth any intervention either. Finally, there is an amendment to the Royal Decree-Law 20/2020 regulating minimum living income, which adds a new section to give legal coverage to the National Social Security Institute and to provide the autonomous communities and local entities with all the information necessary for the recognition and control of the benefits that fall within their competence. In this sense, in the outlying territories it also enables this transmission of information between the INSS and the outlying haciendas. Therefore, as we believe that these are positive measures to address the consequences of COVID, we will vote in favour of this royal decree-law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Third Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you all. First of all, Minister, I would like to say that you do not know how much we regret in this parliamentary group - you know that you had all our support - that you have not finally been elected president of the Eurogroup. We regret this because we believe that, in order to get out of this crisis, it would have been very important and beneficial for this country if you had achieved that position. We truly regret it and will continue to support its work, as it cannot be otherwise, within the high European institutions because we believe that it is the obligation of any party that really wants to put Spain's interests before its own. On the question, Minister, you bring us a royal decree-law, today we have seen four royal decree-laws and there are four patches, and not just this parliamentary group, you have told your Government throughout the morning many parliamentary groups from very different perspectives. I'm going to try to explain to you why we understand that this is a new patch. You are talking about the adoption of a funding line for tourism, a funding plan of 216 million that has been achieved in large part thanks to the negotiation that we have maintained with you on this topic in particular for projects of innovation, digitisation, companies and autonomous of the tourism sector, and that can be used for projects of improvement of domestic management, digitisation, data, improvements in electronic commerce, digital marketing and virtual reality. We believe that this fund should be just the first step towards a more ambitious tourism plan that will bet on the sector's present, ensuring its survival so that we can start talking about the real future. It is true that all measures aimed at improving the competitiveness of the tourism sector, modernisation, digitisation, respect for the environment, are crucial to ensure the future of the sector, but we must be aware of the delicate situation of companies that work throughout the value chain of the tourism sector and need measures to survive now. [[Rumors]] We are attending the first contests of creditors of tourist teleoperators, the very complicated situation of the airlines...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u111	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u112	...to a situation of real despair... [[Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u113	One second, please. Please be silent to listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u114	Thank you, President. ... of real desperation, I told you minister, for small travel agencies, hotels, hospitality establishments that, if we do not react soon, will have no future. Without falling into pessimism, but being fully aware of these challenges, we ask this government to ambition and dialogue and to take the necessary steps to make this happen. With regard to the Fund for the Solvency Support of Strategic Enterprises, I believe that this would be one of the most relevant measures of this royal decree, if not because we only know its initial amount. The details of access to this fund, the conditions for exiting the state of the capital of the companies, the approval amounts and their limits, if any, are left at the end of the Council of Ministers which will have the last word in all the operations it proposes. This raises a great deal of doubt, as the granting of funds from this mechanism must follow purely technical and non-political criteria, and we therefore hope that the Council of Ministers will confine itself only to the validation of reasoned decisions subject to specific and measurable parameters previously defined. I will explain to you potential problems in the design of the Fund to support the solvency of strategic companies, those that we will want to amend in the processing as a bill of this decree. You tell us about strategic enterprises and significant social and economic impact; at no point in the actual decree is it defined what strategic enterprises are and what conditions they must meet in terms of employment or sector in which they participate. No incentive mechanisms are provided to promote an early exit from either capital or debt instruments used by companies in the event of market interest. We understand that each case and each company will have a different and determined exit mechanism, but we miss a reference to this point in the actual decree, as this should be understood as a transitional and very limited aid over time. I believe that no Government, whatever colour, should be tempted to use this fund beyond reasonable limits. In the case of participation of the company's share capital, it is stipulated that political rights arising from incorporation into the board of directors will be assumed if the quota is sufficient, but nothing is said about whether an active role will be played in the boards of directors, whether a veto will be exercised in business decisions. I believe that this mechanism, which many Member States of the European Union have given themselves to take an interventionist position in these companies, could prove more than a rescue an effective nationalisation of the company if the participation was very high in the company's capital or percentage, and can even veto or influence business decisions with non-market criteria. Within the time frame, the European Union sets out requirements for transparency and reporting of aid granted to companies, but there is not a single reference in the Royal Decree that obliges the Government to inform anyone. We believe that the Committee on Finance or Economic Affairs can know the specific actions of the fund, so that Congress can have a measure of control over what the Government intends to do. As far as the RENEW Plan is concerned, I just wanted to say one thing; we totally agree, but it is another patch because it is simply dealing with an absolutely urgent situation. One thing is missing and it is that you set the final date for 31 December 2020, but you should make it clear that this date is not the date of the delivery of the vehicle but the date of the signature because, if not, we will only be giving aid to those vehicles that are bought during the months of September and October because the delivery time is two or three months. This should be made clear to you. We believe that a national industrial plan is needed, and we extend our hand to them for this. Madam Minister, there is going to be a need to establish national emergency budgets. This crisis has changed everything. We extend our hand as we have during this time to the Government to pass the royal emergency decrees, but we will not extend our hand to the citizens, Minister; we will not extend it to them for that purpose. You must define the framework for growth, the framework for growth of enterprises; you must flee from the coven where that meeting of the Socialist Party, Bildu and Podemos - and I believe that, thanks to your intervention, it has managed to slow down - to repeal labour reform. Gentlemen of the Government, your budgets are the chronicle of a world that no longer exists. If the coronavirus has changed everything, how come the Sanchez and Podemos accounts aren't going to change? They'll have to change them. We know that the preferred form of bipartisanism to do things is through patches, like this new patch, fourth patch that bring us here. They are comfortable, they require little effort, with them you seem to do something, but in the end you often leave the hot potato to the government to come later. I don't think they'll be worth the usual patches this time, Minister. We are facing the most serious health pandemic in the last century and we are about to see the dimension of this crisis being generated. We need national emergency budgets - I repeat - designed, calculated and squared to deal with the problems of today's world and not with the propaganda of yesterday's world. They cannot attempt to pass reality - I finish, President - through the narrow eye of their pampered accounts. If you are willing to put aside this ideology, to calculate budgets of truth, of national salvation, good for the Spaniards, that serve as a network of protection against the crisis, here is the hand stretched out by Citizens. If you intend to continue in politics, the short regatta, prejudices and thinking only of the votes before the people, you will not be able to count on us. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u115	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u116	Mr President, Madam Vice-President, we believe that, although the measures set out in Royal Decree-Law 25/2020 respond to real needs that need to be met in general, they are insufficient or are short, first of all because, once again, loans, credit guarantees and moratoriums on direct aid and pardons, as the BNG has proposed. Significant is the creation of a fund to support the solvency of strategic enterprises, but we do not share the view that the Government is thinking exclusively of a temporary mechanism, since, instead of resulting in nationalization, it can easily serve to socialize the losses of such enterprises in line with previous harmful experiences. Secondly, we are concerned that a strict interpretation of the content of the decree excludes companies which, being strategic, need to intervene. In Galicia we have been suffering a serious industrial crisis before the health emergency, which will undoubtedly get worse, with companies that have closed down and others that are at risk or about to do so; this is the case of Alcoa A Coruña - former Alcoa A Coruña, now Alu Ibérica - and especially Alcoa San Cibrao. We are talking in both cases about about 1500 workers, and about a strategic activity that, if it closes, will have a very negative impact especially in the region of A Mariña. That is why our position is clear. Despite the deficits we see, we are prepared to vote in favour of this decree, but that is on condition that the government parties commit themselves here, firmly, to a public intervention to nationalize the aluminum plant of Alcoa San Cibrao and Alu Ibérica in A Coruña. At this point we know that it is the only solution and that is what the workers and the entire region of A Mariña expect of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] The next item is Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today we will also vote in favour of this decree, as we have done with all the decrees so far, even if we consider them incomplete and even if we consider them to be better, because we understand that they always mean progress and we always think about workers or companies. It is essential for us to maintain businesses because we understand that it is the best way to maintain employment. And, speaking of employment, a reminder to express my solidarity, the solidarity of Compromís with the Nissan workers who will probably lose their jobs as a result, first, of the closure of a company that has received public money and, second, of the fact that the 2012 labour reform has not yet been repealed, as many unions denounce. Well, I'm sure this union of Miss Pepis who's going to invent VOX won't report it, but, anyway, a lot of unions do report it. We understand that these ICO guarantees are necessary and, in addition, in the way they are planned, for new investments in both digitisation and environmental sustainability. In that regard, I would ask the Government to be vigilant with the banks so that they could reach out to the self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises, because they have already expressed complaints in previous cases when granting such loans. Secondly, aid for tourism is absolutely essential, in the case of my territory, because it is an absolutely necessary and strategic sector in our GDP. We also think very well that transitional minimum income, which is communicated to both municipalities and autonomous communities because it is ultimately the ones who are going to be controlling and managing this aid. And, finally, a but to be thought of. It has been left out of the aid of the Plan RENEW the flattening of a vehicle if the holder is a first-degree relative and I think there are some complaints in this regard. It can only be whipped if it is the holder of the vehicle and not if it is a first-degree relative. Anyway, think about it because I think it could reach a lot more people. We insist that we vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u119	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] The next item is Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u120	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, our group is going to vote in favour of this royal decree-law, as we have done with most of the royal decree-laws of economic content that have been brought to this House over the last few months to try to combat the social and economic crisis that has been generated around the fight against the COVID pandemic. However, on this occasion we are going to ask for the processing of the bill. We understand that some aspects are significantly improved - some of my colleagues who have spoken earlier have pointed out a lack of concreteness and a lack of definition - and we also understand, Madam Vice-President, that some measures are insufficient. Some of them are very successful and we have been demanding them from virtually the beginning of the pandemic, but fundamental measures such as aid to the tourism sector, which is one of the sectors most affected by this crisis, we think are insufficient. The same sector obviously thinks so too. We are therefore going to make contributions, some of which relate to aid to the motor vehicle sector, because we think that it is sometimes not just about more resources but about improvements. In any case, Madam Vice-President, I would like to take this opportunity to address two points. Over the last few days we have seen how, unfortunately, in some parts of Spanish territory and also in Catalonia there are rebounds of the pandemic, rebounds that generate situations of confinement and closure of some businesses that had been opened very recently. When you talk to these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, they ask you questions as difficult to answer as the following: if I had an ERTE under certain conditions in April, when it came to closing me, why don't I have an ERTE under the same conditions as in April, when you make me close again? We therefore ask for a reflection on this. Madam Vice-President, this morning I had the opportunity to ask the Minister of Finance to heed the unanimous position of this House, except for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, with regard to the remaining treasury. The truth is that when I intervened I had not read this proposal that you seem to have made to the FEMP in relation to the implementation of the remnants. Madam Vice-President, you are responsible for the whole economic area. With all due respect, but with all due respect, I say to you that it is enough political and financial trilerisms with the remaining treasury of the municipalities. It is not acceptable for you to propose as a solution that the municipalities should make a loan to you with the 14 billion of all the remaining ones for you to repay this loan in comfortable terms over the next ten years. Do you really think this is what the mayors and councillors are asking of this House? Do you really think this is going to solve the problem of citizens and small businesses in each of these municipalities?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u121	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u122	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Let's be serious, Madam Vice President. Let us be serious and no longer play with the municipalities, because this solution did not dare to pose it either Mr Montoro. Mr Montoro and the People's Party have given very limited facilities for the application of these remnants, but much greater than those you are giving in the midst of the pandemic crisis. [[Mr.Echaniz Salgado: But much older.]] Therefore, rectify. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u123	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u124	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Madam Vice President. I understand that you have recovery indicators. Or was it a desideratum? I'd appreciate it if you could show me some. Do you know what a good indicator would be? Some of his teammates were present and surely have this role, which proposes some solutions for Nissan; if not, then I give it to him. [[shows a leaf]] On the bottom, there's a multiplicity of things. Like other times you and I have had this conversation, I spare you the complaint that you have been made to defend things that do not belong to you, although I suppose you will distribute them, according to the corresponding ministry. A lot of doubts about the solvency support fund. In the end, it seems to us a plan to inject 10 billion into the large companies, a plan where the SME is neither expected nor expected. Sometimes one thinks that in the mental scheme of those who write the royal decree only very big and not SMEs enter. The SME, once again, is left out of its vision of the economy, not its speeches, that never. Also a lament for the Legislature, which is not addressed to you either. We will vote for it to be treated as a bill, as we will vote in the affirmative on this royal decree. But there is a paradox: if amendments are discussed and approved to target SMEs some of these 10 billion - left, modestly, it will amend in this sense - this will happen when all this is already in the balance sheets of these IBEX companies. Tourism. Late and bad. Late, because, as we have repeated several times, they began to dimension the problem thinking that a tirite larger than the one we used with Thomas Cook would stop the hemorrhaging that has occurred, when the magnitude of the tragedy is difficult to describe. And wrong, because you forget certain CNAEs on the list of aid recipients: those of the campsites; the whole group of 553, for example, and the bloody forgetfulness of the discretionary passenger transport sector -4939- and its annexed activities -5221-, those who transport tourists from the airports to the hotels or go visiting monuments, which are also other forgotten; and those who transport or transport the elderly people of the Imserso program. Do you really believe that you are not part of tourism or have simply forgotten about them? Please run to patch it up in the next royal decree-law, because the system I complained about is going to be slow by way of amendment, and these people are having a really bad time. With regard to the urgent measures reflected in the Royal Decree regarding tourism sustainability and digital transformation plans, welcome are welcome. We believe that these measures should boost decentralized territorial competences, as we should not forget that there are prepared and equipped administrations with the necessary instruments, which only need more resources at their disposal. To greater decentralization, greater efficiency. The territorial administrations know their realities better than any plan linked to the Spanish State. In the end, the question is what model of state the government has in mind, how federalist it is. Someday I'll tell him the fed joke on the corner. Article 348 bis of the Capital Societies Act. Those of us who are a little older have panicked. You've done a Montoro trick, which has generated many side effects. I think it is very important that they are prepared for their reversal as soon as necessary, and I am not criticising their application. As far as the 2020 Renovation Plan is concerned, we cannot deny that it is necessary; it was and certainly is an opportunity to support renewable fuels. Bearing in mind the objective of future decarbonisation, any aid for clean transition should be given priority. If we focused on the sector, you could have been a little more surgical, because, in the end, it doesn't matter so much to unpack an old diesel that only comes out on weekends, like a diesel that, even if it's less old, is distributing last-mile packages in the center of our cities. In that sense, we would have liked you to be a little more surgical. Only thirty seconds to say that investments in the industrial sector should be a door to reindustrialisation, with the ultimate aim of achieving a qualitative advance, beyond giving oxygen to the usual business, as in the case of Nissan who had been commenting on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u125	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u126	Thank you, President; thank you, Vice President. Good afternoon. In September 2019, Bibiana Medialdea was reflecting on the lack of capacity of the economy to predict the future, because this does not go from spells, of course; just as she also said that we should take into account, in the face of a future that cannot be but uncertain, the only certainty, that is our great vulnerability, especially in those groups most hit by the 2008 crisis. As we are aware of the existing inequality and as a health crisis also impacts unequally, this government has taken contingency measures, such as the social shield, the minimum living income, the promotion of ERT to which three million workers and half a million businesses have been welcomed, and lines of endorsement to solve liquidity, of which 98% have been for SMEs and autonomous people. So, in this key, we welcome this royal decree, which comes to continue the task of helping our productive fabric to now face the reconstruction phase. Reconstruction is a term that has two meanings, which we could define as building with hands or building with memory; that is, reconstructing a structure or reconstructing the scene of the facts. Feminist teacher Begoña Marugán, a few weeks ago, in this very House, said that we must rebuild by being aware of the past and looking to the future. And that inevitably leads us to say that the foundations cannot be the same. This royal decree goes in the right direction, as a short step on this long road. And in this new normality, horizons are more necessary than ever. This text focuses on environmental sustainability and digitisation, with a significant resource mobilization of EUR 51 billion. We believe that a government that does not leave anyone behind must bear in mind in its development that sustainability implies - in addition to this of the flora and fauna that we heard yesterday and that I was reminded of life and color, by a group that does not have a position on climate issues, but that can make us waste a lot of time with an amendment to the whole of a law that deals precisely with the consequences of the climate crisis - the sustainability of life. When we speak of a productive model, we understand that the work of care must be there, that it must be with full rights and as part of what is not only a question of justice, but also of our gross domestic product. And we can't talk about digitization without taking into account the territorial, generational, gender and other labor ravages that it also causes, because we can talk about the crunch or directly ask video game developers what are the ravages that cause them in their health these kinds of labor problems arising from that work in digitization and what we should be taking note of. I would even tell you, Madam Vice-President, that we can start talking today, if you like, about digital sovereignty. We have to assume that the public has a responsibility to carry out another development model, but the public is not omnipotent: co-responsibility is a term that has to be within the semantic field of the private sector. Millionaires in many countries have it clear - we saw it this week - that they want to pay more taxes; they know that with individualism they do not get out of it. What they said in Lost, 'live together, die alone', who call themselves'millionaires for humanity' have understood. And here, however, while the state empowers ERTEs to alleviate the fixed costs of businesses, the CEO, in conclave, calls for tax cuts and more job adjustment. While the state makes billions of euros available to the private sector to alleviate liquidity problems and encourage investment, we see the centrifugal tensions of many companies that want to take production to other countries, and the Nissan workers told us very clearly this morning. [[Give it up.]] While the State implements the minimum living income, large companies in this country pay 70% of their taxes outside Spain. Shall I tell you which one? It came out yesterday in the news: Inditex. By the way, the People's Party aims at minimum living income when social clamor forces them and now demand to manage it in the autonomous communities that govern to target so many, but the Asturians do not deceive us because they have not been torpedoing our social wage for half a year. They're not gonna cheat on us now, either. There are two more issues than in the time left for me to point out on this royal decree. I return to Medialdea, when he points out that the dimension of the wreckage is measured not only by the force of impact but also by the strength of the body that receives it. Do you know what aggravates the wreckage in our industrial fabric? The same thing that is ending the job in my country, in Asturias, the relocations. That is why the section of the corporate solvency support fund is so important, understanding that if public capital comes in, the public must also be involved in decision-making. I think of Alcoa, but, I say more as an Asturian: let us also think of Arcelor and even what we might be doing and how we might be avoiding another closure of companies, as we have seen with Vesuvius, if we are participating in decision-making. And I'm going to something that said a fellow Cianhu. [[He continues his intervention in bable.]] So, let's rebuild from other foundations. They talk about tourism plans, Plan Renove, but let's also think about another sector that has to be strategic for our economy, that of culture. How much does the state invest? Less than 0,06 % of gross domestic product in culture. And yet how much does culture generate in our economy? 3.2% of gross domestic product. Let us also pioneer in that and invest - as they do in other neighbouring countries - in our cultural fabric, in creators and creators but also in technicians and techniques. And today, which is Wednesday, let us also bear in mind that without science there is no future and that this also has to be in our reconstruction plans that we have to carry out. I'm done with this. We can do it. I now quote Naomi Klein, who this very week said: I feel like we have a chance. I would not describe myself as optimistic, because we are talking about a future for which we have to fight, but if we look in the direction of the moments of history in which great changes have taken place, they are moments like the present. It is time, we are well on our way; determination and courage now become a democratic duty. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u127	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u128	Thank you very much. Minister, those of us who care about travelling through Spain have the extraordinary opportunity to meet amazing people, it is a real privilege; people who have stories of overcoming that it is worth knowing, inspiring stories for those we believe in the effort and ability of people to carry out their own projects. They are also very revealing stories of how far away the rulers are, in their office, from the reality of these people; real stories of the early Spain, which fights to resist and which does not want the government to solve its problems, but which at the same time is outraged when it sees that the same government is its greatest hindrance. There are workers like Miguel Ángel and his colleagues from Meirama, in La Coruña, who, as a result of a bad energy policy today, after many years of service, see themselves on the street without any alternative employment. Or as Sergio and his wife, Diana, also workers - and certainly trade unionists - of that early Galicia, who see how they face the closure of Alcoa, in which this government has so much responsibility. Or fishermen such as Manuel Ángel or Antonio, whom we have met, who went out to work at three o'clock in the morning, to throw their nets into the water, or like Marcos, who dedicates his hours to the mussel in the beautiful land of Pontevedra and who suffers from misunderstanding in the face of labyrinths and bureaucratic obstacles, or like Aurora, like Alfonso, like José María. Minister, you are real people who have very concrete real problems and who are perplexingly watching how in the midst of this crisis your problems get relegated, perhaps because some do not listen to them. They work in very diverse sectors, but they share two things. They want to make a living with their work and they perceive that the government's agenda, that agenda, is progressing, has little or nothing to do with their real problems, and they feel the suffocation of burdens and bureaucratic obstacles, they live drowned by taxes, and they live by maintaining what they have achieved with so much effort. All this I say to you because I think you should step on the street more and listen to them before returning to that speech so self-complacent, without a single self-criticism and above all without any intention of rectifying, because it is a lack of consideration for all of them and above all because it is a disconnection from reality. [[Give it up.]] It seems that the reality of this government is irrelevant or simply gives them equal weight; it gives them equal weight that because of their mismanagement Spain is already at the head of the world economic collapse, it gives them equal weight that we destroy more employment and more intensely than all the countries in our environment, about ten times more than the European average. And as everything seems to them to be going so well, instead of pushing forward an ambitious productivity reform plan, they are announcing policies that have led us to unemployment in the past. Madam Minister, we have a clear priority and we have said this here many times: to ensure the liquidity of the productive fabric and thus to defend employment in as many companies as possible for as many workers as possible. But the result of the policies we have implemented so far is the opposite: an unprecedented destruction of the productive fabric, an unprecedented failure from which we should have already learned some valuable lessons in order not to make the same mistakes again. But listening to what you have said here and reading the explanatory statement of this initiative, I do not see the slightest symptom of self-criticism or the desire to change policies in the face of the obvious failure of those that have been implemented so far. A strong and agile response was needed to keep our companies alive and keep our jobs alive, but, on the contrary, the Government has offered an insufficient response, of the lowest in percentage on the gross domestic product compared to countries in our environment, and also tremendously ineffective in its design, with credits that did not arrive and ERTs that did not end up collecting. With the royal decree that they bring to this House today - which, by the way, has been passed outside the Commission for Reconstruction, but we will talk about that another day - we again stumble on the same stone. Many companies and workers continue to suffer the economic consequences of the coronavirus and the remaining productive tissue, because it is getting less and less damaged and needs more than ever decisive measures to stay alive, but for the government of Pedro Sánchez the only relevant force is that of the story, that of being counting things in the media. That is why, once again, the answers that bring us in this royal decree-law for the automotive and tourism sectors are adequate to make propaganda acts, but clearly late and clearly insufficient to keep those sectors alive, which, as you well know, are key in our economy; of course they are late. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has tabled a request for measures for the motor vehicle sector and for the tourism sector in March and April respectively - of course, we were not heard - and the measures they bring today are insufficient, far below those observed in the countries in our environment. On the one hand, the engine plan is far from the 8 billion or 11.7 billion that France and Germany have set up respectively. Let us not forget that Spain is not only a power in the automotive sector, but is the number one power within the diesel sector. [[Give it up.]] And the same has highlighted the tourism sector. The 4300 million that has been provided is insignificant compared to the 83 billion euros in projected losses. France will mobilize four times as much as Spain for the tourism sector. You also choose less agile ways to ensure liquidity at a crucial time. While the big European countries are lowering taxes, just to avoid damaging the recovery, the Spanish Government - after four attempts, by the way, with the Minister of Finance - has already admitted that it is thinking of raising taxes, beyond some that have already been announced. It is about getting out in the best possible conditions to guarantee a return to the activity with the least possible damage and, unfortunately, it does not seem to be so. As the sector has pointed out, the prolongation of ERTs is not enough. In practice, what is involved is a gradual increase in social security contributions, which will create a risk of bankruptcy and dismissal if we fail to guarantee sufficient liquidity. But it is that this royal decree-law goes beyond and, in addition to those insufficient and late measures, introduces a measure that I dare to qualify as dangerous, especially if placed in bad hands. Madam Minister, a few weeks ago I asked you about this government's intentions to enter private companies and you answered me literally: the solution I do not think is that a mastodontic public sector replaces the functioning of the private sector. At that moment I thought: less wrong, there is at least one brake lever to so foolishness in this government. But what you bring us today is the creation of a fund of EUR 10 billion, precisely managed by SEPI, to enter discretionaryly into companies in problems that gives this government unprecedented power. They install our economy in an alarming, very typical leadership of that totalitarian left to which you are so fond. We, on the contrary, believe, as our colleague Contreras said this morning, that the essence of the left is the constant growth of State power over society, but that the individual and private initiative are the ones that generate the most growth. You told me once, when I told you about the idea of creating a reconstruction commission led by executives, as has been done in Italy, executives with knowledge about the economy, about job creation, who believed more in the management of the public sector. You have already shown with the management of savings banks, with the management of Post Offices, that you manipulate our ballots, in what you believe when you say you believe in the public management of companies like those you now want to start controlling with that fund of 10 billion. [[Give it up.]] I'm done. Precisely for examples such as these we must protect the independence of companies. Let us pass this royal decree-law as a bill - we will abstain in the other - and let us make it possible for the remaining solvent companies to remain so.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u129	Your Honor, you must finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u130	Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u131	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u132	Thank you, President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are back with another royal decree-law, on 25/2020, of urgent measures to support economic recovery and employment. Apart from the fact that everyone is called alike - there is almost no way to distinguish them -, on all the royal decrees they plan a little the same valuations. [[The lady]] Firstly, that we are late; the measures are late, the slowdown and the negative impact of this crisis have not been properly estimated. And secondly, the scarcity of measures, scarcity that is being consolidated over time, with every new forecast of GDP. The forecasts are getting worse and are likely to have to do with the delay and scarcity of measures. And the worse the lower the forecast, the more the measures remain. Instead of creating a virtuous circle, we have a vicious circle. We saw this in the previous crisis: when sufficient and decisive measures are proposed, everything changes, because confidence is fundamental in the economy and more in times of crisis, and when the consequences are explained they are much more negative than expected. I go on to detail the most important measures contained in this royal decree-law. A 40 billion ICO line of guarantees is approved to finance productive investments. We do not understand why the extraordinary lines of liquidity and investment were not initiated at the same time, why this delay. The mobilisation of 20% of GDP announced by Mr Sánchez has been another of his lies, apart from the fact that 200 billion is 16% of GDP and at 30 June the leverage of the credits actually granted is not 100%, but 31%. What I mentioned earlier about the vicious circle, if we initially needed 200 billion with the expected deterioration, we should now need more, shouldn't we? We do not even reach half of what was originally planned; something is not being done well, Madam Vice-President. In addition to the amount, there is the problem of management by financial institutions: excessive compensation to close operations, leaving behind micro-enterprises and small self-employed, some financial institutions taking advantage of ICO lines to improve their risks. They say in the explanatory statement - and you have repeated it here in your presentation - that they want to replicate the same operation as the liquidity line to the extent that the operation of this has been satisfactory. I hope not, I hope they learn from the mistakes, although, in fact, I do not see them at the disposal of them. A fund managed by SEPI, the State Company for Industrial Participation, is set up of initial 10 billion to provide financial support to strategic, solvent non-financial companies that have been particularly affected by COVID-19. We applaud the measure; we do not applaud the delay, which seems to be the norm of the house, but yes the measure, and we make some requests to it because we have some doubts about its use. We want absolute transparency, absolute control and absolute clarity, and that the characteristics determined in the royal decree be scrupulously fulfilled. The temptation to nationalize companies or to play Monopoly with Mr. Iglesias in the Vice-Presidentship of the Government is a reality that must be of concern to us. That's why our deputy secretary, Elvira Rodriguez, has asked them to be part of the board of directors. I don't know if you'll come to so much by looking at the background of agreements with our group, but at least count on us, we're a ruling party and I think our input and knowledge would be positive. We appreciate positively the measures to support the internationalization of companies, but I keep reminding you - as I did in Royal Decree 15 - that Cesce continues to leave out of its credit coverage for the little ones. Textually - I open quotes - they say: Because of this and even new order, we have indefinitely suspended the granting of small-scale risks for commercial interest, silver bullets that allowed to classify companies with negative financial data or without objective information necessary to classify. I close quotes. The little ones. I bring him back because when I told him the other day he looked at me strange, although in the end I saw that he was pointing him; I don't know if he's made any management because the situation is currently even worse than a few weeks ago. As regards measures to support the tourism sector, the plan is absolutely inadequate. The mobilisation of 4262 million will not help to curb the loss of employment in a sector whose impact is estimated at a loss of some EUR 60 billion, so the measures included in this royal decree are only small patches, and I am sorry to tell you this. But it is even more contradictory for us that this plan is insufficient to read the explanatory statement and the disaster foreseen in the tourist activity announced by the exhibition. Although the renewal of tourism sustainability plans for destination seems to us to be an excellent idea, the 216 million line of credit for the digital transformation of tourism enterprises that have been affected by this health crisis does not allow for the digital transformation or the investments necessary even to ensure the safety of tourist establishments, and many subsectors remain outside, as Mr Capdevila has said. We support the Renove program and, finally, rules are laid down to arbitrate the mechanisms for public-private collaboration of health projects related to the coronavirus. Spain has been left out of some European projects and try to prevent it from happening differently from some national projects that are investigating medicines and vaccines against coronavirus. A good measure and we are glad that they are cured of that phobia of public-private collaboration. They must be aware that it is the future of our country, as the rest of the developed countries understand. We are therefore going to abstain, since it does not affect its approval, because some measures are really scarce, especially as regards tourism - a vital sector for our country - and others must be modified, because of the doubts we have about the use of funds through SEPI and because we continue to expect them to have us. They are absolutely reasonable and reasoned complaints, nothing to do with chrispation or the overthrow of a government or similar messages coming out of that bench, even sometimes from the blue bench. I'm done, President. These days we are seeing doubts in some European Union countries about Spain; Madam Vice-President, why do you think some European countries do not trust us? The last time we received funds through loan for the restructuring of the financial sector, the report of the head of the mission in Spain, the so-called black men, was very positive about our country and about the fulfilment of the conditions imposed: Europe should have no doubts about Spain, which is a country fulfilling its commitments. So what doubts can you have? Perhaps the failures of the past two years? Maybe our president's messages? Maybe the messages from our vice president? Do you not think that an agreement with our group, with the Group of the European People's Party, would help to build the confidence of those countries? President Sánchez believes that he should not do so because it is bad for Spain - we are already seeing that it is not - but because he believes that it would be bad for the PSOE, he does not want the same thing to happen to the Greek Socialist Party, and we believe that he is wrong. Firstly, because it puts the PSOE above Spain, something unforgivable in a president of the government, and, secondly, because if it fails because of its impeccability I am not so sure that the Spanish forgive the PSOE a second failure after that of Zapatero in the previous crisis; two socialist failures followed and with very negative consequences for the citizenry. We are still here, willing to help, rebuild or recapacitate the president for the good of Spain and, humbly, I believe that also for the good of the PSOE. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u133	Thank you, Mr. Paniagua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Socialist Group, Mr Alfonso Cendón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u134	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by thanking Vice-President Nadia Calviño for having put forward a valid, sensible and necessary candidature for the presidency of the Eurogroup. [[Applause.- The third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, Calviño Santamaría, makes gestures of thanks.]] I believe that everyone in and outside this House knows that it brings together the preparation, dedication and qualities that we need so much to rebuild Spain and Europe with social justice and equity. Thank you for your work and your dedication, Vice President. The elegance, solvency and leadership with which Vice President Calviño congratulated Paschal Donohoe contrast with what we heard from the People's Group. Although I have been surprised today, I have seen them moderate; it is noted that this very morning Mr Feijoo has visited you, even that you - in the intimacy, that is - some, start speaking Welsh. We hope it lasts. [[Give it up.]] When Mr. Casado lost the first general elections to which he ran, he was asked for moderation in his party and he promised moderation. A few days later, he dedicated himself to calling the President of the Government a traitor to the homeland. When he lost the Europeans, the autonomics and the municipals again received internal criticism and promised his own party moderation and centrality. [[Protests.]] Shortly afterwards they were saying that this was the worst government in history and that the president was a felon. [[Greetings.-Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u135	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u136	He promised moderation once again when he lost the general elections again, and since then they have taken advantage of the worst health crisis in our country's history to unleash an unbridled struggle against the government; an unbridled struggle and a permanent scandal wherever and whatever it may be, in Spain and in Europe. They have asked their partners to be tougher with Spain. They have sent reports to the European Union criticising our rule of law and have not been able to join the other parties in the reconstruction plan, not even in Europe-related aspects. Ladies and gentlemen, love for a homeland and respect for its people are not shown by words that, as we see, wind is coming. Today they have a new opportunity - and I hope they will, as they say, take advantage of it - to demonstrate their patriotism with facts. They abandon the politics of anger and radical confrontation, abandon that extremism in which they have settled; the citizens have just said it a few hours ago: it does not correspond to the majority feeling of the voters, nor that of the voters of their party. [[Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u137	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u138	Today they have a new opportunity to show that their concern for Spain goes beyond sufflamas by validating this royal decree, a royal decree to continue strengthening and accelerating the recovery of our economy; a royal decree, as the Vice-President has argued, to help the Spaniards and Spaniards who today are having a bad time and waiting for all of us answers and solutions, not scolding and screaming; a royal decree to stimulate the investment, with a new line of guarantees channeled through the ICO for the amount of 40 billion euros and aimed at promoting the realization of new projects; a royal decree to support our companies, with the creation of a fund to support the solvency of strategic companies endowed with 10 billion: sectors such as the automotive sector, with a very important weight in our economy, which has been particularly punished and which will be benefited by the Plan Renewal 2020, endowed with 250 million euros; sectors such as tourism, with a mortgage moratorium for buildings affected to the tourist activity, with the setting in motion of an internal system of financing still in the field of the field of tourism and innovation. Those of us who live in the province of León, as in many other provinces of Spain, know well the importance of this type of action to revive the life of our rural environment that has given so much and gives to the development of our country. It is a real decree, in short, to stimulate investment, to strengthen the solvency of companies, to maintain and create employment. Ladies and gentlemen, the action of the Government has been based on a clear principle, on which, despite the differences we have, I am sure that we can understand ourselves: that no one is left behind. And for no one to stay behind, we have raised a social shield of responsibility and solidarity that continues to protect those who need it today. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for no one to stay behind, we have to start our economy, modernise our productive fabric by moving towards a greener, more digital, more innovative, more inclusive and more egalitarian economy. It is difficult to exaggerate the significance of the moment we live in, of what we are dealing with, and we are not tired of repeating from the Socialist Parliamentary Group that this is not a project of the party, this is a project of the country. What we do at this crucial moment will depend on the future of millions of Spaniards. That is why we need two things: harmonisation of investments and reforms at European level, and we need above all and above all unity and consensus, the same unity that social partners have shown by signing the Pact for Economic Reactivation and Employment, the same unity that Spanish society has shown with its responsibility during this pandemic, that unity, that exemplary responsibility that this House must also reflect with its vote. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Alfonso. We vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have already cast the vote through the telematics procedure cannot do so again from their seats. We begin with the votes. Opinions of the Committees on legislative initiatives. Draft Organic Law on the Use of Passenger Name Registration Data for the Prevention, Detection and Prosecution of Terrorist and Serious Crimes. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: cast, 160 plus 185 by telephone, 345; in favour, 157 plus 168 by telephone, 325; against, 1; abstentions, 2 plus 17 by telephone, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u141	The opinion was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u142	Overall vote on the draft organic law on the use of passenger name registration data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crimes of the same organic nature. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 160 plus 186 telematics votes, 346; 157 plus 168 telematics votes, 325; 1 plus 1 telematics vote, 2; abstentions, 2 plus 17 telematics votes, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u143	The draft organic law was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u144	Opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. Voting on the opinion on the international agreement on taxation and protection of financial interests between the Kingdom of Spain and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland concerning Gibraltar, done ad referendum in Madrid and London on 4 March 2019. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 159 plus 186 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 81 plus 105 telematics votes, 186; against, 76 plus 66 telematics votes, 142; abstentions, 2 plus 15 telematics votes, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u145	The opinion was adopted. - PROTOCOL BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE KINGDOM OF MARK FOR THE IRREVECTIVE DONATION OF THE PROPERTY OF THE GREAT TANGER CERVANT THEATER, DONE IN RABAT ON 13 FEBRUARY 2019. [[File number 110/000005]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u146	Vote on the opinion on the Protocol between the Kingdom of Spain and the Kingdom of Morocco for the irrevocable donation of the property of the Great Cervantes Theatre in Tangier, done at Rabat on 13 February 2019. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 159 plus 186 telematics votes, 345; 157 plus 160 telematics votes, 317; 10 telematics votes, abstentions, 2 plus 16 telematics votes, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u147	The opinion was therefore adopted. - COMPLAINT OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE UNIVERSITY OF THE UNITED NATIONS ON THE INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF THE UNITED NATIONS FOR THE ALLIANCE OF CIVILIZATIONS IN BARCELONA, DONE IN MADRID AND TOKIO ON 28 JUNE 2010. [[File number 110/000010]] - COMPLAINT OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE UNIVERSITY OF THE UNITED NATIONS ON ESTABLISHMENT, FUNCTIONING AND USE OF THE INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTION OF THE UNITED NATIONS UNIVERSITY FOR THE ALLIANCE OF CIVILIZATIONS IN BARCELONA, DONE IN MADRID AND TOKIO ON 28 JUNE 2010. [[File number 110/000011]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u148	Joint vote on opinions on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the United Nations University on the International Institute of the United Nations University for the Alliance of Civilizations in Barcelona, done in Madrid and Tokyo on 28 June 2010, and on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the United Nations University on the establishment, operation and location of the International Institute of the United Nations University for the Alliance of Civilizations in Barcelona, done in Madrid and Tokyo on 28 June 2010. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 158 plus 186 telematics votes, 344; 156 plus 151 telematics votes, 307; abstentions, 2 plus 35 telematics votes, 37.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u149	The opinions were therefore adopted. - STRATEGIC ASSOCIATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THEIR MEMBER STATES, ON THE ONE PARTY, AND JAPAN, ON THE OTHER PARTY, DONE IN TOKIO ON 17 JULY 2018. [[File number 110/000017]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u150	Voting of the opinion on the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Japan, of the other part, done at Tokyo on 17 July 2018. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 159 plus 186 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 138 plus 152 telematics votes, 290; abstentions, 21 plus 34 telematics votes, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u151	The opinion was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u152	Joint vote on the rest of the opinions. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 159 plus 185 telematics votes, 344; 157 plus 171 telematics votes, 328; abstentions, 2 plus 14 telematics votes, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u153	The opinions were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u154	Validation or repeal of royal decreeslaws. Royal Decree-Law 22/2020 of 16 June regulating the creation of the COVID-19 Fund and laying down the rules for its distribution and release. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 160 plus 187 telematics votes, 347; 124 plus 151 telematics votes, 275; against 36 plus 34 telematics votes, 70; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u155	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 160 plus 187 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 36 plus 37 telematics votes, 73; against, 123 plus 139 telematics votes, 262; abstentions, 1 plus 11 telematics votes, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u156	Therefore, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 23/2020, OF 23 JUNE, APPROVING ENERGY MEASURES AND OTHER AREAS FOR ECONOMIC REACTIVATION. [[File number 130/000024]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u157	Royal Decree-Law 23/2020 of 23 June approving energy and other measures for economic recovery. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 160 plus 187 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 82 plus 106 telematics votes, 188; against, 1; abstentions, 77 plus 81 telematics votes, 158.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u158	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 160 plus 187 telematics votes, 347; 77 plus 73 telematics votes, 150; 83 plus 102 telematics votes, 185; abstentions, 12 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u159	Therefore, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 24/2020, OF 26 JUNE, OF SOCIAL MEASURES TO REACTIVATE EMPLOYMENT AND PROTECTION OF THE AUTOMOUS WORK AND COMPETITIVENESS OF THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR. [[File number 130/000025]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u160	Royal Decree-Law 24/2020 of 26 June on social measures for the reactivation of employment and the protection of self-employment and the competitiveness of the industrial sector. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 160 plus 187 telematics votes, 347; 129 plus 159 telematics votes, 288; abstentions, 31 plus 28 telematics votes, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u161	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 160 plus 186 telematics votes, 346; 160 plus 183 telematics votes, 343; 1 telematics vote, abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u162	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 25/2020, OF 3 JULY, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES TO SUPPORT ECONOMIC REACTIVATION AND EMPLOYMENT. [[File number 130/000026]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u163	Royal Decree-Law 25/2020 of 3 July on urgent measures to support economic recovery and employment. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 160 plus 187 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 84 plus 117 telematics votes, 201; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 76 plus 69 telematics votes, 145.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u164	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 160 plus 186 telematics votes, 346; 160 plus 184 telematics votes, 344; 1 telematics vote, abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-15-CD200715.u165	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was four and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
