ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u1	Very good morning, ladies and gentlemen, the session is open. This is the third session of the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies that we are holding under the special conditions that are before us all, conditions whose sole purpose is to maintain the parliamentary function as long as we comply with the measures that have been implemented by the health emergency in which we find ourselves. Today's session will address the request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm and the validation of several decree-laws related specifically also to the fight against COVID-19 and the mitigation of its effects. We will, as you know, do so not only in the Chamber but also in the other Members of the House, who will fulfil their obligation as parliamentarians following the sitting and voting telematically and with their duties as citizens doing so from their home. At the beginning of these sessions, I have always had words for the dead, the sick, the health workers, those who feed us, those who care for us and the rest of the workers who fight the pandemic in the front line, for those who are responsible for maintaining essential services, including the workers of Congress, and specifically for members of the Armed Forces and the State Security Forces and Bodies. Today I would like to add in the relationship of gratitude, recognition and tribute to all citizens who, while staying at home, are also fighting the disease in a very valuable way. I would like to express the House's thanks to all of them. Finally, I invite those present to remember the deceased as a result of this disease, keeping a minute of silence. [[The ladies and gentlemen present in the Chamber, stood up, kept a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u2	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in order to exchange the order of debate for the validation or repeal of the actual decree-laws, so that the one appearing as item 4 of the agenda will be discussed first and then points 2 and 3 cumulatively. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted. I should also like to inform you that the proposals concerning the request for authorisation of the extension of the state of alarm will be voted on at the end of agenda item 1. ACTS RELATING TO THE STATE OF ALARM, EXCEPTION AND SITE: - APPLICATION FOR THE AUTHORIZATION OF THE PROGRESS OF THE STATE OF ALARMA DECLARED AS A REAL MEASURE DECIDED BY COVID-19 OF 14 MARCH, DECLARING THE STATE OF ALARMA FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE SITUATION OF HEALTH CRISIS PROVIDED FOR BY COVID-19, PROROGED BY THE REAL DECIDED BY 476/2020 OF 27 MARCH. [[File number 091/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u3	We begin with the debate on the request for authorization to extend the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by Royal Decree 476/2020 of 27 March. In order to explain the reasons for the request for an extension, the President of the Government has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u4	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin my speech, as always, with the excited memory of all the compatriots who have lost their lives because of the COVID-19. In these days, one of the things that we find most difficult to understand - we have said it in some other appearance - and that most shakes us is death in solitude: people who have gone without the embrace of their loved ones, without their last farewell. There is no doubt that nothing will make up for that pain, but we will give them as soon as possible the tribute they deserve. If they did not have the closeness of their relatives, they will have at least the tribute of society as a whole. I also want to send from this House all the forces and desires for recovery to those who are fighting in hospitals and their homes against the disease, here in Spain and also anywhere else in the world, because we will not be free of the virus until this pandemic has completely disappeared all over the planet. And that is making it possible, in heroic work, our great health professionals and a public health to which we owe everything and must give everything. I want to remember, of course, the more than 52,000 healed in our country today: they and they are part of our collective joy and hope, they are the symbol that we are getting it, that this war against the virus will be a total victory. And I do not want to fail to insist, ladies and gentlemen, that the drastic measures taken, followed with discipline, courage and determination by Spanish society staying at home, have served to save many lives, the lives of people who never contracted the disease because we stopped the contagions through confinement. Ladies and gentlemen, the global magnitude of this terrible pandemic is overwhelming, and there are the data; the speed of its spread is dizzying. The last time I came up to this rostrum on 25 March, the World Health Organization counted some 414,000 people infected and about 18,000 dead worldwide. Just two weeks later, we have long exceeded 1,400 000 infected across the planet and the coronavirus has ended the lives of more than 80 000 people in the world. The global dimension is an indisputable fact and also the challenge for humanity as a whole. There is no longer any doubt about this: we have faced the greatest threat to the public health of the planet since the flu of 1918. Therefore, these are extremely extraordinary times that require exceptional measures, measures such as the one that calls us back to plenary today: the expansion of the state of alarm. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear again in this House to ask that all the parliamentary forces present here support the Royal Decree extending the current state of alarm adopted by the Government of Spain in the last Council of Ministers. It is, as you know, the second extension that we requested after the first Royal Decree published in the State Official Gazette on 14 March, a measure, in my view, in our view, essential, which received the support of the majority of the political parties represented here and which was again endorsed on 25 March. Support that we once again seek with the assurance that it remains an essential measure to protect the lives and health of our fellow citizens. We have unquestionable evidence, ladies and gentlemen, and the state of alarm is working. After weeks of a struggle that has been agonizing for moments, we see how the fire that triggered the pandemic begins to be under control. The data, logically, with all the prudence we can express, are encouraging. We have reached and surpassed the peak of COVID-19 contagions and we find ourselves near the beginning of the descent, which is called descalation. After the first stage of this emergency we begin the second, which is to bend the curve. And when we decreed the state of alarm, ladies and gentlemen, the average of contagion in Spain was around 22%; today the contagion is 4%. Then we had to make a decision for all of Spain, for the whole country, for all the autonomous communities, and that decision has been positive for all, but above all it has been beneficial for all citizens; live where they live, think what they think, we focus on people, because, ladies and gentlemen, the virus does not understand ideologies or territories. Your support then made it possible, ladies and gentlemen; it has made it possible by working exemplaryly all the representatives and also the public administrations of our country, regardless of their political sign, and above all it has made possible the exceptional sense of community of the whole of Spanish society that assumed the leadership of the experts and the health authorities and followed their instructions and recommendations with responsibility and also with social discipline. We are all aware of the enormous sacrifice that this second extension will entail for a citizen who, logically, already resents the effort made over the last month, but we also know that it is essential to consolidate what we have achieved with so much pain and suffering in this time frame, and that is something that we will only achieve if we keep the state of alarm until scientists consider it so. Therefore, our priority now is not to go astray, not to go back under any concept to the starting point, not to lower the guard. We begin to see the end of this long road that will lead us back to a new normality, and we have to make this new effort to get out of that tunnel. Ladies and gentlemen, as we know, Spain has reached the peak of maximum tension of this emergency and for a few days now we have begun to bend the contagion curve. If the ascent has been hard, it will not be less hard the descent, which also contains new dangers that we will have to draw among all. The return will have to be progressive, we will need an adaptation before returning to normality and we cannot even know with precision what kind of normality we will recover, because possibly there will be many aspects of our economic system, of our social system and even of our way of living that will have to be reformulated to be stronger in the face of an emergency like the one we suffer. But that will come later, ladies and gentlemen, although we have been working on it for some time. Soon it will touch on the so-called descaled, a gradual transition or return that has two objectives, in our opinion: the first of them is to continue to protect non-immunized citizens against the virus while the vaccine logically arrives; the second, to channel the progressive return towards the reconstruction of what we have called the economic and social plane. The impact of this crisis on our economic system is leading, among other issues, to loss of employment and destruction of our productive fabric. Complete reconstruction is a future phase that can only begin when we are safe from everything, but in order to reach it we must plan in parallel the second phase, that is, the phase of descalation. As I have already announced, the Government of Spain is preparing a plan so that this phase can be developed effectively, and in this planning there is a multidisciplinary team, composed of epidemiologists, technologists and specialists of the highest level in different disciplines that will be affected logically by this transition; a team that is designing the progressive reactivation of economic and social activity, with possible individual and collective measures that will be developed subject to the criteria of public health and also with the maximum collaboration and cooperation, as I told the last Conference of Presidents to the autonomous governments and also to the municipal governments. This plan, ladies and gentlemen, will be adapted to the evolution of the pandemic, both in our country and in the rest of the world. The measures covered will be hygiene, both individually and collectively; health screening and care for people infected with COVID-19; and thirdly, initiatives that necessarily have to do with the technological field of control and monitoring of the pandemic. This transition plan will be phased out, ladies and gentlemen, and its speed will depend on progress in the control of the pandemic. Scientists, technicians who advise the Government have established several markers that will set the pace of the return to this new normality. These markers will be related to the control of contagions, to the recovery of our health system, and every weekly advance that these markers make possible the opening of new spaces and the lifting of restrictions on the way to that new normality. Every advance against the epidemic will be followed by a step towards the new normality, a new normality that will be full only when the world has an effective vaccine against COVID-19. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, all the steps towards the new normality that will be taken each week will be staggered and, without a doubt, cautious, very cautious, and all will be accompanied by personal and collective hygiene measures and with measures to control and monitor the contagion. The last thing we must allow, ladies and gentlemen, is a slip because it would mean, rather than a setback, a relapse. This coming week will take the first step towards this new normality with the conclusion of the retrievable paid leave that began on March 30. It is envisaged that all workers whose activities were suspended on that date will be reinstated and, of course, that reinstatement will only affect those workers and the suspension - and I would like to stress this: the suspension is maintained - of all the other activities which have been paralysed since 14 March when the state of alarm is decreed. Workers who rejoin next Monday will have to adopt certain strengthened habits of conduct and hygiene to protect themselves and also to protect their co-workers. In any case, throughout this process of transition to a new normality, I would like to repeat that the Government of Spain has always followed and will always follow the mandate of the World Health Organization, that is, to strike a balance between the response to the health crisis, the mitigation of socio-economic effects and the fulfilment of human rights. And we must be aware that the state of alarm that we are asking to extend today carries with it the restriction that is proportionate and necessary in order, after all, to regain those freedoms to which citizens have every right. That is why it is essential not to forget our obligation as public representatives to be exquisite in the protection of legal guarantees; public health, but also the health of our democracy, goes into this. Ladies and gentlemen, the flag that Spain needs is the flag of unity. At this time of crisis, we must be more united than ever because the threats multiply: to the health, economic and social emergency and to the tiredness, logically, physically and psychological of a citizen who has been confined for almost a month, is added a new problem that we are seeing on a daily basis, and is the danger of misinformation. The National Police warned us a few days ago of the emergence of a million and a half accounts on social networks related to COVID-19, whose only function is to spread false news to manipulate public opinion. I repeat, 1 500 000 profiles intended to spread bubbles and fake news. The fact that one lies about a subject as delicate as illness in times of social uncertainty is also a public health problem and, again, is a fundamentally democratic health problem. In this regard, I would like to appeal once again to the collective responsibility of all the political forces that we represent to the whole of popular sovereignty in this House. These are no time for sterile discussions that distract us from the only battle that matters, which is to defeat the virus so that we can begin the economic and social reconstruction of our country as soon as possible. We must concentrate on continuing to implement the measures resulting from the state of alarm, the enlargement of which we are putting to your vote today; measures that continue all the efforts we have already made and which I would like to recapitulate. We have announced the mobilisation of up to EUR 200 billion to protect and secure families, workers, the social economy, the self-employed, businesses in our country, and so far the estimated impact of the main measures approved is EUR 128,288 million, I repeat, EUR 128,288 million, of which more than EUR 4600 million is earmarked for health issues, more than EUR 119 billion for economic measures, more than EUR 3400 million for labour measures and more than EUR 11 billion for social measures. This means, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest mobilization of public resources in our entire democratic history. And to start with health measures, these are what they want - we have shared it on some other occasion in this rostrum - is, first of all, to guarantee the liquidity of the health system to expand the capacity of our system. Secondly, strengthen research, science to find the cure as soon as possible. Thirdly, to strengthen and protect the homes of older people, which have proved to be a critical point in this crisis; our parents, our mothers, our grandparents, are the most threatened and cannot and should not feel the most helpless. To strengthen, fourthly, educational measures to maintain activities through online, distance-based modalities; to avoid, in the end, inequalities in education through the closure of schools and universities. And, fifthly, to increase isolation measures and, consequently, mobility measures to prevent contagion. Secondly, social measures, backed by EUR 11 billion, aim, firstly, to implement and extend the mortgage debt moratorium. Secondly, automatic renewal of rental contracts. Thirdly, articulate microcredits for the payment of up to six months of rent through the ICO for tenants in an unfavourable situation. Fourthly, apply the moratorium on payment to rent for those tenants in vulnerable situations. To prohibit, fifthly, the suspension of basic supplies and ensure food supply. Sixth, extending the electric social bonus to the self-employed and allowing them to suspend electricity and gas bills and pay them for the next six months is a reality at the end of the state of alarm. Seventhly, ensure the minimum transport requirement. Eighthly, we must also ensure the protection of victims of gender-based violence, who are now facing the double threat we have referred to in previous debates, such as the virus itself and forced coexistence with its abusers. Ninthly, monitor consumer prices so that market prices remain fair in materials that are now essential for the general public, and finally, maintain legal attention and prohibit the increase in funeral prices. Thirdly, economic measures are aimed at financing, providing liquidity and also a credit line. In addition, the payment of taxes has been postponed to a maximum of EUR 30 000 for SMEs and self-employed workers for a period of six months, with three months of lack of interest payments. In addition, we have promoted aid to specific productive sectors. As you know, we have speeded up customs clearance and strengthened support for the autonomous communities and also for local authorities. And fourthly, there are the necessary labour measures, which set out the following. Firstly, teleworking as a measure of labour flexibility, understanding and being aware of the difficulties it poses for certain jobs and territories in our country. The implementation, second, of a retrievable paid permit from 30 March to 9 April. It ends, therefore, today. For whom? Of course, as we have said, for workers in non-essential sectors and with the limitations you already know. We have temporarily limited the objective dismissals for causes linked to COVID-19. We have allocated more than EUR 3 million for the special allowance for lack of activity for persons integrated into the Special System for Home Employees of the General Social Security System, and also add up to more than EUR 17 million for the exceptional unemployment allowance for the end of a temporary contract. The calculation of the maximum duration of temporary contracts has also been interrupted. We have automatically extended unemployment benefits. We have allocated more than EUR 230 million for the hiring of 200 000 rural workers in the municipalities, and for small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people we have postponed the payment of social security debts for businesses and self-employed persons until 30 June; we have put in place the six-month moratorium on social security contributions and the extraordinary termination benefit for self-employed workers. As regards measures for ERTE, workers entering an ERTE without meeting the unemployment requirements will receive the unemployment benefit, and SMEs with fewer than 50 workers entering this ERTE process will be exempt from paying business contributions. With regard to public employees, the autonomous calendar of public employment offers for teaching bodies, which comprise 27,000 places, is coordinated; public employees are allowed to perform tasks other than those of the workplace and voluntarily support those areas that require reinforcement as a result of COVID-19; contracts for assistants, assistant doctors, associate teachers and visiting teachers are extended, as well as contracts for research staff are extended. Finally, we have promoted special measures for the essential sectors, such as the opening of certain hotel establishments and the access of carriers to certain services and maintenance in service areas. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to summarise, albeit briefly, the impact of these measures on Spanish society. Firstly, a first line of EUR 20 billion has already been set up from the ICO line for State funding coverage, and I would like to announce to you that in the next extraordinary Council of Ministers to be held this Friday we will launch the second line of EUR 20 billion, of new EUR 20 billion of ICO lines. The Government's estimates suggest that more than 1.3 million self-employed people and businesses could benefit from this, which will be able to meet their obligations and thus ensure the continuity of their activities after the difficulties resulting from this health crisis have ended. In addition, the extension of the ICO's borrowing limit in order to increase the lines of financing to businesses, which are autonomous in order to provide them with the additional liquidity they are demanding, with EUR 10 billion, would in this case benefit another 130 000 businesses and workers and self-employed. From the Government of Spain we want all those activities that are perfectly viable, but that are having transitional difficulties - and I stress the transitional ones - as a result of the health crisis of COVID-19 and the state of alarm can overcome this gap, which is temporary - which is temporary - and can continue its activity. As far as self-employed workers are concerned, more than 588 000 self-employed have already applied for an extra benefit for cessation of activity or for a reduction, as you know, of at least 75% of the turnover compared to the average for the previous six months. According to the Government's forecasts, those who will finally benefit from this measure will reach the million. As for the extra subsidy for lack of activity for domestic workers - a collective representing, as you know, almost 400,000 people, mostly women - they will also benefit from this aid. With regard to the protection measure for workers directly affected by COVID-19, more than 300,000 workers have already been taken in, who are forced to keep quarantine because of the risk of infecting their co-workers. As far as housing is concerned, up to 1,200 000 tenants could benefit from the measures by postponing the payment of rents in the event of economic difficulties arising from the crisis in COVID-19. In the area of agriculture, and in order to ensure the food chain and supply by addressing labour force needs during the collection season, the Government is going to finance the recruitment of 200 000 workers by the municipalities with €236 million, as I said earlier. We will also make it easier to hire temporary workers, allowing for compatibility between income from agricultural work and public benefits to bring in between 75 000 and 80 000 people. In addition, the deadlines for the subscription of agricultural insurance and the refinancing of drought loans are extended by EUR 2.5 million, and also, as some autonomous communities have requested, the deadline for applying for CAP subsidies from this year to 15 May is extended. Finally, with regard to measures to ensure the provision of energy to vulnerable consumers, more than 1 250 000 families could benefit. Among these measures we have also carried out an extension of the electric social bond for six months, which will be able to accommodate more than 420,000 families. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise the idea that each and every one of these measures that the Government has taken has a clear and fundamental priority, which is to overcome this emergency as soon as possible by strengthening our public system, especially public health, without leaving anyone behind, especially protecting the most vulnerable and those who suffer from greater insecurity. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now inform you of the various orders, resolutions and instructions issued by the four ministries designated as competent delegated authorities and published in the BOE since 25 March, when I last appeared in this House. For his part, the Minister of Health has approved a total of fifteen orders, among which we can highlight the one that establishes the conditions for the dispensation and administration of medicines within the scope of the National Health System in order to ensure the supply. The one that determines the removal of the confinement of the municipalities of Igualada, Vilanova del Camí, Santa Margarida de Montbui and Ódena. The one banning the vigils, postpones the holding of funeral ceremonies until the end of the state of alarm and also limits the price rise of funeral services. It authorises the use of bioethanol in gels and hydroalcoholic hand disinfection solutions. The process of obtaining licences for companies engaged in the manufacture, import and grouping or sterilisation of health products is speeded up in order to ensure supply. And the one ordering the Secretariat of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence to develop urgently, among other tools to support the management of the health crisis of COVID-19, a computer application that allows the self-assessment of symptoms and the geolocation of the user for the sole purpose of verifying that he is in the autonomous community in which he declares to be. For his part, the Minister of the Interior has issued four orders. One, to extend the controls at the internal land borders, established in the wake of the health crisis. Another, to avoid doubts about the inclusion of vehicles intended for the development of certain essential activities that are not expressly mentioned in previous orders and thus facilitate the work of the State Security Forces and Corpses. Another, to extend the licences and authorizations of weapons whose period of validity expires during the state of alarm and to establish that during the first half of the year the shooting exercises are not carried out for the maintenance of the ability in the conservation, management and use of weapons by security guards. And the fourth, to facilitate registration and change of ownership of certain vehicles. For his part, the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has issued eleven orders and six resolutions. The most relevant are the following. Firstly, the order identifying the tourist accommodation that should be considered essential and should therefore remain open. Orders prohibiting flights with Italy until the end of the state of alarm and therefore extending the ban on the entry of passenger ships from the Italian Republic and cruise ships of any origin. The order regulating a second acquisition and distribution of masks for subsequent distribution to personnel who provide their services in the transport sector in areas of risk. The order allowing to reduce the offer of passenger transport services, on the occasion of the entry into force of the retrievable paid permit. And the two resolutions that come from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation to guarantee air transport service on certain routes of the Canary Islands and Palma de Mallorca and Ibiza. Finally, the Minister of Defence has issued an order to suspend, temporarily and exceptionally, any regulatory restrictions on the distance teaching of subjects in the different curricula. Ladies and gentlemen, the action of the Government does not, of course, end at our borders. One of the major challenges facing us in this pandemic has to do with Europe, with the European Union. They know what the Spanish Government has always advocated in relation to Europe and the demand for solidarity it entails. The extraordinary of this emergency requires strength, new measures. Otherwise - and I say, moreover, without nuances - our union is in danger. We need unbridled solidarity and a solid proof that the cohesion that defines us as a Community project is more than mere rhetoric. As President of the Government of Spain, of a firmly European government - because Spanish society is firmly European - that is what I demand of the European Union. And we don't have time to waste in this either; it's now or never. We already have on the table the European Central Bank's temporary emergency purchase programme, unpublished and applauded. We also have a design for an unemployment reinsurance fund, the so-called SURE Plan. Let's see what the details of that plan are, but we need a lot more; it's not enough. The reconstruction of Europe as a union of countries is as important as the unity of action in our own country. We therefore need to be demanding, ladies and gentlemen, we need measures to support the public indebtedness of many states, because this crisis is not guilty, it is a global emergency and therefore a European emergency. Europe has to confront COVID as expected, it has to act now to deal with the disease, and it will have to act later by mobilizing all the resources that are needed to implement a new Marshall Plan. We must learn the lesson, austerity after the 2008 crisis has only brought fragility to the disaster. Neither austerity nor cuts are the way. We do not want fragility; on the contrary, we want strength, action, unity and freedom for all. In short, we want reconstruction and that reconstruction should be initiated so that it has been more fragile since the time of austerity in 2008, which is the public, our state of well-being. Financial mechanisms that cover the reconstruction and repair of countries following this crisis should not be governed by inequality and punishment in the face of the so-called smaller economies. Today we are all fighting - and I stress it, all - in the face of the same emergency, an unprecedented emergency. Tomorrow, all the countries will have to rise with the same spirit and support from Europe, the twenty-seven countries. It is now that Europe must be more Europe than ever. It is now that we must do so together because, otherwise, the Union will have forgotten the Europeans and, logically, the Spanish. Ladies and gentlemen, I also ask you to contribute to this task. All of you have a voice in Europe through your respective brotherly parties and their respective European parliamentary groups; I humbly ask you to make it heard, to make yourselves heard. I invite you to defend Spain and Europe. I urge you to show your co-religionaries that this pandemic has no distinction between the north and the south, as it does not distinguish between left or right governments either. It is the most ferocious catastrophe humanity has endured in three quarters of a century and Europe cannot look elsewhere. The Spanish parties are European parties and these European parties have a voice and influence in national governments and also in the European Parliament. I therefore ask you to act in favour of Spain and the European Union. This is the time for unity of action, also by this House, at European level. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know that we are living in hard times of confinement that are undermining our mood, I understand the fatigue of confinement, especially that of those families with the worst conditions of habitability. I understand the concern for the future, especially that of our compatriots in situations of greater vulnerability. But I want to convey two ideas that I think are fundamental at this very critical moment. The first is that no one will be abandoned to his fate. The collective effort will ensure that the wake of civilian casualties is not followed by a mass of social victims. And the second is that only resistance, social discipline and science will allow us to overcome this very hard trance. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, COVID-19 has opened a threefold crisis around the world, we have said on many occasions - all of you repeatedly say in your various public appearances - a health crisis, an economic crisis and a social crisis. From Germany to China, from the United States to France, from Italy to Japan or Great Britain, every day that all nations pass is aware that it was not an isolated fact of one or two nations, but rather, as WHO has said, a global pandemic. This is therefore a global emergency. But, ladies and gentlemen, only in Spain, at least among the big countries, has the virus opened up a fourth crisis, which is the political crisis. I'm not saying it, it's seen as prestigious headlines, such as the Financial Times, over the last week. In a recent article, this economic journal was surprised that, while in all countries the pandemic has served to minimize political rivalries, in Spain it is serving to confront the political confrontation. This week, for example, we listened to the conservative leader of Portugal, in the opposition, making an emotional speech wishing him luck and good luck to the Prime Minister, António Costa, because his luck and his right - the leader of the opposition said - would be those of all Portugal. [[Applauds]] We were also listening to the newly elected British Labour leader, unqualifiedly standing beside Boris Johnson's conservative British government, whom I take advantage of, by the way, to wish him a speedy and complete cure. Ladies and gentlemen, while our health care providers are fighting in the front line, while our agents and military personnel are fully employed, while our farmers and staff dependent on small and large areas are feeding us, while our families are isolated to protect themselves, I believe that we must be united, as they and they are. No one understands that this is not the case. We are, before we, the representatives of all the Spaniards, think what they think; therefore I humbly ask you for unity and loyalty. Notice, the Regional Director of Europe of the World Health Organization, Hans Kluge, concluded last week the mission commissioned by that organization to analyse the situation in our country in terms of response to COVID-19. So that there is no room for interpretation, I quote your words textually after the end of that mission. He said: I am deeply impressed with the heroism of the professionals who are on the front line, with the solidarity of the Spanish people as a whole and with the inspiring resolve of the Government. The WHO Regional Director in Europe continued: I feel cautious optimism as a result of the bold measures, innovative approaches and courageous decisions of Minister of Health Salvador Illa. The Director-General of the World Health Organization reiterated those words. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I do not ask the opposition to subscribe to these words, I only humbly ask for unity and loyalty. It is clear that the world, that Europe, that all the West has arrived late and that Spain is no exception, but if Spain stands out in anything it would be for four reasons that I would like to share with all of you. First, Spain is the country that first took measures of confinement throughout the West, the first. We did it with only 120 dead, far ahead of the other countries. Secondly, Spain is one of the countries that is performing - and growing - an average of 20,000 tests per inhabitant per day. Thirdly, Spain is the country of the West that has gone further in the containment measures, because what we announce, ladies and gentlemen, we execute. And finally, Spain is the country that provides more information, the only country that reports all the positives, not only those hospitalized; all the positives, all the deceased diagnosed, all the income in the ICU and all the highs. All of Europe, ladies and gentlemen, was late but Spain acted before. I do not ask you to sign it, the only thing I ask of the opposition is unity and loyalty. [[Applauds]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, these data come from sources as undisputed as the European political environment or the COVID-19 study of a prestigious British university, the University of Oxford. Precisely, this study, that of the University of Oxford, gives Spain the highest score of Western countries, ninety out of a hundred; ninety out of a hundred in terms of rigour in the response to the pandemic. I am sure that for the opposition 100 over 100 it would have been better than 90 over 100, as well as for the Government; there are things that we would have done differently with today's knowledge yesterday, but yesterday we acted with yesterday's knowledge not with today's knowledge. No Government in any country can presume that it has not made any mistake, ladies and gentlemen, none. We are fighting against an enemy, the virus, which is unknown to science and, consequently, to experts who advise the Government and also to Governments. The self-requirement of the Government of Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is absolute. What I can assure you is that the Spanish Government has been working and has always done so in good faith. He has worked with all his energy, with all his means, with the advice of the best experts our country has. And I am also convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that the governments of all the autonomous communities, of all the municipalities - without distinction of political colour - are acting with the same will. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I do not demand recognition; all I demand of your ladies and gentlemen is unity and loyalty. The Director General of the OECD, Ángel Gurría, was this very week very clear about the pandemic, the economy and also about our country. He said the following: We are faced with an unprecedented situation and we must take unprecedented measures. It is a false dilemma if one chooses between economics or health, at the moment the only thing that can be done - said the Mexican Angel Gurría - is to fight the pandemic with all the elements that you have. First, care must be taken for the unemployed, who have been left out of work. In the case of Spain - said the Secretary-General of the OECD - what they are doing now is very exemplary from the point of view of confinement and that will allow them to end faster with the spread of the virus. The pandemic will end - said the Mexican Angel Gurría - especially if they apply, as in Spain, measures as important as those we are applying. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not ask for such statements by the opposition, all I ask is unity and loyalty. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is experiencing extreme times and the health crisis that we are only beginning to bring back is accompanied by a great economic and social crisis that we are already beginning to feel. The whole of Europe, the whole of the West, wonders whether it has reacted late to the health crisis. Time will have to understand what needs to be improved and what needs to be avoided so that a pandemic of these characteristics does not happen again, but what we cannot afford is to be late for the economic and social crisis that we already have. We need to react soon and we need to do it together, all of us. In that regard, I made the proposal for new Moncloa pacts, which I formulated last Saturday and which I would like to reiterate here today and now solemnly before this House. If our health workers fight the virus together; if our police, our military, face the virus; if our farmers, our dependents - as I said before - remain in their positions against the virus; if our families are held together to protect themselves from the virus; if the destruction of employment affects us all; if the crisis puts the well-being of all; if it strikes everyone without distinguishing political preferences, what does division mean?, who benefits the division? We have a precedent in our democratic history on which we can draw inspiration. Our country has already faced a different, but also dramatic situation, which threatened to take our economy ahead and, with it, our newly reconquered democracy, and the Spaniards were able to respond together, without distinction of creeds or ideologies. We identified a danger and planted face together with those Pacts of the Moncloa. That same formula is what we are proposing, with the logical modifications that correspond to the transformation that our State has undergone, today a strongly decentralized State. Therefore, what I propose is a great agreement for the economic and social reconstruction of Spain involving all the forces willing to hold their shoulders: political parties of course, but also entrepreneurs, trade unions and, of course, the autonomous communities, the provincial parliaments and the municipalities. I propose an agreement for the economic and social reconstruction of Spain. In recent days, I have heard some reactions that express reservations about this initiative. It has been said that it cannot involve a change of regime; well, 100 per cent agree, the regime is and must remain our social and democratic Constitution, which has full force and must inspire us to its full extent. It has been said that it cannot nullify the parliamentary control of the Government; fully agree, full force of parliamentary control. It has been said that there can be no reduction in information transparency; absolute compliance must remain absolute information transparency, as we have been doing since the beginning of this crisis. It has been said that it cannot exclude anyone; perfect, all those who are willing to tie their shoulders - as I said before - are invited and want to do so. It has been said that you are suspicious of the sincerity of the proposal; well, I repeat the proposal from the heart and also formally express it in this House, with all solemnity, to the legitimate representatives of all the Spaniards, who are you. Ladies and gentlemen, in this crisis, which has unfortunately already been extended to a great many citizens, I have had to address our fellow citizens as responsible for the Government of Spain on several occasions, and every time I have done so I have repeated the same words: sacrifice, resistance and the moral of victory. And the Spaniards are demonstrating, beyond the political color and government preference they have, that they know how to respond with sacrifice, with resistance and with a moral of victory. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I formally call you next week for a first meeting of all political forces who want to participate in this great economic and social agreement for the reconstruction of our country. We will include in this agreement the social partners, the autonomous presidents and the political forces that are willing to hold their shoulders. We're all called to those pacts. Today, in this House which brings together legitimate representatives, I ask you only what I have been repeating during this last part of my speech: unity and loyalty, which is the way in which political leaders can contribute to the sacrifice, resistance and morale of victory that the whole of our people is demonstrating. And I end with a question, ladies and gentlemen, today, here and now: are you ready? I am. I only ask you what I can offer you: unity and loyalty. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Applause]] Thank you very much. The representatives of the various parliamentary groups will then speak. Firstly, for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, the Spaniards deserve a government that does not lie to them, they deserve a government that always tells them the truth. The nearly 14,800 people who died because of the coronavirus, according to their official data, deserve it; their families who were devastated by pain for not having been able to say goodbye to them and accompany them in their last moments; they deserve it by the almost 150,000 infected and the 60,000 hospitalized who continue to fight against the virus; they deserve it by half a million health professionals who are playing their lives to save others' lives in sometimes miserable conditions, and they deserve it by the 47 million Spaniards who have been confined for a month and who, on holy Thursday, receive with resignation their decree to keep them locked up in their homes for another fifteen days. Mr Sánchez, you will also hear these words: we need politicians who do not reject debates, who face the face, who give security to citizens, who protect public health professionals and who do not blame us for their own mistakes. And he goes on: The words that come out of us are: helplessness, shame, uncoordination, misinformation and, ultimately, disgovernment. You said this on October 7, 2014, when you had barely spent twenty-four hours of Ebola infection in Spain. You had already issued summary sentences against the People's Party government as guilty of the epidemic and demanded his resignation, but good management truncated his disloyalty, effective measures prevented further contagion and the only sick woman was cured; she only lost her dog's life, which cost us twenty-five demonstrations in which we were called killers. Your moral authority to ask now for loyalty and unity is null, but, even so, we will continue today to support the containment measures of the pandemic, because the guide of our political vocation is the ethics of responsibility; I recommend that you practice it also sometime. [[Applauds]] In the first vote of the state of alarm a month ago I told him that I was not alone; in the second, that this was not going well; and today I must say to him: so no. Spain is the country of the world with the most deaths per million inhabitants because of the COVID-19, and we already recorded the fifth part of the world total; we are the first country in the world in contagion of healthcare professionals, almost 20,000, that is, one in seven infected in Spain; too many of these superheroes who paint our children with white coats and green masks have had to use garbage bags and diving glasses to protect themselves because they didn't get the material. This is all a terrible national drama. Therefore, I ask you to stop talking only about peaks and curves, depersonalizing the immense pain of this massacre in human lives. Let us not become mere statistics to the tens of thousands of truncated lives and duels in solitude. Victims deserve public visibility and the tribute of society as a whole. [[Applauds]] That is why I ask you again, half a month later, to declare national mourning until we overcome this pandemic, to guarantee the protective material to all health workers and to test massively all citizens who can go out of their confinement. Mr Sánchez, there is hardly any international influence that has not criticized your unpredictability and mismanagement of the crisis. You can't threaten them with the BOE. Unlike what you sell, this crisis is not symmetrical, because it has affected countries differently depending on the effectiveness of the governments and because not in all the opposition has adopted its tough measures, as we have done in Spain. There is nothing more to see than good governance in Korea, Japan or Germany, or there is nothing more to hear from the US, British, French or Italian opposition to highlight our loyalty, despite the contempt with which it treats us. But I won't be the one to hold him accountable in the middle of the storm, not until he's gone. It will not be this party that climbs to the door of their homes, nor 'pass it' campaigns with photos of victims on social networks. We are not like you, but at least we can say what we think should be best done, even if only because we are supporting, without even being consulted, the most drastic measures in the democratic history of Spain. Now that we have managed to get them under parliamentary control, after a month of demanding it and a thousand unanswered initiatives, we must exercise our constitutional obligation as an opposition, even more so when today we will support for the third time a state of alarm that has already overstretched its constitutional scope. That is why we do not put forward motions for resolutions that endorse their exceptionality, but with a 15-day margin we warn you that this restriction of rights is not unlimited. The maximum powers we grant you must be accompanied by efficiency and transparency. One thing is to try to contain the expansion of the pandemic and another very different is to confine democracy, constitutional freedoms and even the legitimate criticisms of the opposition, the media or the citizens themselves on social networks. Above loyalty to the government will always be our loyalty to the Spanish. Ladies and gentlemen, this has been the chronicle of a pandemic announced. It has been repeatedly warned for three months by the World Health Organization and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, bodies whose alerts must be managed directly and automatically by the Ministry of Health, as provided for in the General Law on Public Health. However, this Government replied to the WHO claim on 30 January by literally saying that 'Spain will not have beyond some diagnosed case, that there will be no local transmission or at least very limited and controlled' - close quotes -. The truth is that we are already the second country in the world in contagion, with 150 000, according to their own official figures. On 3 February, WHO warned that prevention and control measures are absolutely essential to ensure that health workers are protected from the virus, but the Government replied textually that 'Spain has sufficient supplies of emergency personal equipment' - closure quotes -. The truth is that we already have 20,000 infected professionals, not counting social, funeral or security services. On 11 February, the WHO insisted on the urgent need to acquire protective equipment and only two days later the European Union warned of the risk of depletion of health products, but the Government stated that 'Spain had already implemented preventive and preparatory measures' - closure quotes -. On 24 February, the Director of WHO urged the international community to make every effort to prepare us for a pandemic. That was two days before I asked the President of the Government in this very House to coordinate the response to the coronavirus instead of sending his ministers to the negotiating table with Torra that same morning. And just a week later, on 2 March, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, as the National Security Centre itself later did, warned against mass events that could spread the virus, but throughout that week the Government authorized, through its provincial delegations, hundreds of sporting and playful events and demonstrations; only in Madrid encouraged 77 mass demonstrations on 8 March. Mr. Sanchez, it's not this, it's not this. Do you really maintain that you've done everything right? Do you think, as your minister, that this government has absolutely nothing to regret? Aren't you going to apologize to anyone? He would be grateful for his less voluntarist speech and a little sensitivity, humility and sincerity. Far from any self-criticism, you justify your decisions on a supposed committee of experts that we know nothing about and whose effectiveness has been more than questioned. I have already told you that when this crisis is over we will ask for the minutes of those meetings in the Committee of Inquiry, which I hope you will not veto here, and we will know whether there was only concealment of data or negligence. Even the main national civil servants union has filed a complaint with the Supreme Court against its Government for alleged crimes against workers and has reported that only 7,000 professionals out of the more than 50,000 promised by the Government have been recruited. It had to be the People's Party and the autonomous communities in which we governed those who demanded urgent action, after weeks of asking us not to be alarmed. Madrid asked to close schools; Castile and León, the state of alarm; Andalusia, centralize the material; Galicia, do massive tests, and Murcia, limit mobility. The Government did not decide until 10 March, with the already uncontrolled pandemic, the centralized acquisition of protection, intervention and diagnostic equipment. And it was such a scandal of the rhythms and the bargains - in the words of a minister - that he had to return the ball to the autonomies after having lost ten critical days for infected and for victims. Mr Sánchez, thirty days after you have all the exceptional skills and command and sole responsibility I ask you to tell us the truth, whatever it costs you. The truth about this derailed rectification, about the failed purchases of material, about the need to wear masks on the street or not, about the identity of the fraudulent test provider and how he intends to improvise Noah's arks in the midst of the flood and violating legality. The truth about the use of our personal data in computer applications, about the fate of our TV subsidies taxes or about the fake news campaigns against the health management of the People's Party. The truth about the economic plan of its vice president vis-à-vis freedom of enterprise and private property, about the real forecasts of deficit and public debt and about the real conditionality that a European rescue would have. And, above all, tell us yes, it is true that the actual number of victims could double the official figures, because that would be extremely serious. In this crisis, what is not up to you is working better. The Spaniards have complied with everything you have asked of them, but you have not complied with them. Ladies and gentlemen, despite everything, we continue to support the Government in saving lives, but not in ruining Spain. The health crisis will leave behind a deep economic crisis that they had also denied and that they are not now able to manage either. On 4 March, the Economic Vice-President predicted that the impact of Coronavirus on the Spanish economy would be insignificant and transitory, but for the time being it has already destroyed one million jobs and 120,000 businesses and has already forced 300 000 businesses and three million workers into temporary employment regulation. I remind you that public, health and social services are paid with private sector taxes, so we have to avoid from the state that breaks what holds it. On March 9, I offered the President of the Government a shock plan to cushion the economic impact of the coronavirus and to ensure that no one is left behind. Just an hour later he hurried to say that they had been working on their own plan for weeks. Time has shown he wasn't telling the truth. It took three days to present it and it was so insufficient that it helped the Spanish stock exchange record the blackest day of its entire history. Seven days later, it extended it to EUR 200 billion, of which only 10% have been authorised, which has not yet reached almost anyone. That's right, they took advantage of the decree to put their partner in the CNI Commission. Precisely the decrees that bring about validation today follow the economic program of Podemos and charge employers with the costs of the pandemic. I've been warning for a month that fighting a supply shock alone with demand stimulus measures is like trying to chip water into a shipwreck with a strainer. Even so, Mr Sánchez, I told you personally five days ago that if we needed our votes we could negotiate those measures on the basis of the proposals we had made public two weeks ago and that, if not, I would understand that you were not interested in our support. I imagine it must have been so, because no one has even called us to explain its content. We received none of them in the previous decrees, but we were still able to support them because they were more reasonable. He can hardly aspire to rewrite the transition who is neither able nor able to negotiate a decree. You say one thing, but you do the opposite. But let us not lose hope that one day he will seek a real pact and not a trap to divert the news from so many bad figures. We do not put a slogan on a blank sheet first, but fill it before proposals. Now that you're walking with shield logos, remember that the only lasting social shield is employment. That is why I keep my hand open to negotiate this decalogue of measures for those most affected by the crisis. For healthcare professionals we propose an extra payment for the risk of contagion they face. For workers in essential sectors we raise their gross salary during the state of alarm for the workload they bear, which well deserves the forgiveness of the IRPF and contributions to military, police, civilian guards, farmers, distributors, funeral workers, social services workers, etc. For heirs of deceased by coronavirus we ask for the removal of the inheritance tax and donations to alleviate the pain they have suffered. For the self-employed and SMEs paralyzed by the crisis, we request exemption from contributions and taxes up to one month after the state of alarm. It is inexplicable that the March quota would be charged to the self-employed in full economic closure. For those affected by an ERTE, we demand speeding up the payment of benefits and the coverage of paid permits by the State; it is regrettable that three million workers have not yet been paid. For taxpayers, I call for the voluntary postponement of tax payments and the compensation of losses for this year in the previous year. For the autonomous communities, we call for the repayment of the EUR 25 billion of VAT due and the EUR 1200 of training confiscated, as well as a strengthening of the Health Expenditure Fund. To reactivate the entire productive sector, we propose to ensure the immediate and sufficient liquidity to avoid the bankruptcy of thousands of companies that have not yet received the promised guarantees. In order to recover employment we propose to reduce tax, labour and bureaucratic costs; it is not understood that those who access government credits have to use them to pay taxes when they have not entered anything. Finally, we believe that an ambitious plan of flexibility and economic competitiveness is needed by promoting second- chance laws, of entrepreneurs, of market unity and specific plans for the health, tourism, industrial, commercial and export sectors. This is our positive proposal to rebuild an economy that can suffer a two-digit fall in GDP and the loss of millions of jobs. We are able to do so without the need to seek enemies within and outside our country. We did so in 1996 and 2011 to overcome two tremendous recessions and we managed to create seven million jobs without being rescued by anyone. The problem is not Spain's reputation, but the credibility of a government that has squandered EUR 16 billion in the electoral decrees of the last two electoral campaigns, doubling the deficit committed as we grew by more than 2%. That is not understood by the Europeans, but not by the Spanish, who know how well that mattress would come to us to fight the coronavirus. Even so, our country will be able to count on the support of the European Central Bank with more than EUR 100 billion in Spanish debt purchases, with the European Investment Bank with up to EUR 20 billion, and with the European Commission with another EUR 10 billion, all without another EUR 25 billion from the MEDE. Now we must stop lamenting and putting our hands on the work, deal with the urgent and the important and not throw probe balloons to dilute responsibilities and share the mistakes made. Our institutional, economic and labour system is perfectly valid for dealing with this crisis if it is properly managed. Social dialogue, always, but complicity to make ruinous decisions for the Spaniards, never. One thing is to preach and another is to give wheat. We have been offering up to eleven pacts to the Government in the fields of education, pensions, territorial, international and social policy for almost two years without any response. That is why it does not seem sincere the sudden pactist vocation of those who have not been dignified or called in two weeks to those who are approving the confinement of the whole nation. There is no need to set smokescreens or renew any historic agreement that has already allowed us to become a modern European democracy. That is not at stake, at least for our part, I don't know if it is for all its government partners. Madam President, I would like to end by reminding the generation of our parents and grandparents, who made possible the transformation of Spain and who are now suffering the damage of the coronavirus. We must protect the most vulnerable, heal the sick, honor those who have died and thank everyone for what they have done for us. It was the children of the post-war period, the parents of the transition and the grandparents who with their pensions helped their families in the economic crises. Three years ago we celebrated in this Chamber one of its achievements, the 40th anniversary of the first democratic elections; two years ago we commemorate the four decades of our magna charter here too, with the king, and we will certainly be able to pay tribute to the Law on Political Reform, the Moncloa Pacts or the request to join the European Economic Community of the same year, 1977, but these historic successes must not be made to cover the present failures. That work is in force and the People's Party will defend that legacy against any attack or instrumentalization. Much of the UCD that led these achievements ended up joining our party, as well as four of the seven parents of the Constitution, and Adolfo Suárez himself declared us heirs of his formation. We must live up to that formidable generation by keeping its work on its feet, without taking advantage of this crisis to disfigure it. Let us listen to Unamuno and try to be more parents of our future than children of our past. Mr Sánchez, this crisis may have overcome you and that is why I spend more time searching for subterfuges and sharing blame than finding solutions, but it does not underestimate the greatness of the Spanish people, who are able to overcome any challenge. We are a great nation; in my opinion, the best in the world. Stop hiding in the mockery of history, abandon the core of propaganda, lead once and for all the way out of this tragedy with determination, courage and effectiveness and do not squander the extraordinary power that we are going to grant you today another fifteen days. That's why our grandchildren will judge him in forty-three years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u7	Thank you, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr Abascal Conde has the floor for the Vox Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the health, economic and labour tragedy that we are experiencing has the greatest responsibility: Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias. That is why I want to begin my speech by showing my regret and that of my parliamentary group to the health workers, whom you, Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, have sentenced by not giving them the appropriate protective measures; also to the civilian and police guards, who have been refused to be a risk group and have therefore been denied adequate protection and the necessary tests. The father of a civilian guard recently told how his son had been waiting for five days for a doctor at his home and three hours for an ambulance; when he arrived, it was late. I would also like to remind myself of the thousands of people, especially the elderly, who have died abandoned in their homes because there was an order not to hospitalize them or not to care for them in intensive care units. And, of course, I would like to convey our condolences and solidarity to all the victims, who do not yet know whether there are 15 000, 30 000 or 40 000; directly, we no longer believe their figures. I don't know how you dared to predict a total victory, with thousands dead in Spain. We'll get out of this, but there's no more total victory, Mr. Sanchez. You, Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, can no longer be believed. You are the caricature of a Chavista government; only lies, concealments and disinformation, but, yes, many gestures, endless televised speeches and submissive interviews with their media vassals, to which he gives the money that he has previously confiscated from the same autonomous and SMEs to which they have been forbidden to work. Mr Sánchez, Mr Iglesias, you are the protagonists, but also the ones responsible for the world's highest mortality rate by coronavirus, and that with the suspicious official figures, which threaten to be the great bubble of this tragedy, the great lie, and that the bar was very high in all that has to do with the bubbles regarding the Wuhan virus. And let's talk about bubbles, which is what now seems to take the dream away from Mr. Sanchez. The curious thing is that you are so concerned, because you, Mr President, came to the government with just a bubble, with a lie, promising your constituents that you would not agree with the gentleman who is sitting next to you. But I am pleased that you are now willing to combat misinformation and that you have mobilized the media sunrise brigade and hordes paid on social media to detect bubbles. Look at you, I'll help you. For starters, it's a bubble that the victims of the coronavirus are 15,000; there are so many more, everyone knows it and you know it. It is a bubble, in fact there are several, the dozens of statements of its ministers, spokespersons, related journalists, minimizing the danger of the virus saying that it was a flu that only killed the very elderly or very sick, as if that were little, or, later, promising aid that did not just arrive. It is a hoax, a lie, Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, to say that there was no risk to public health, as the Minister of Health did on 13 February. It is a bolus and it is a very serious lie, Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, to say that there was no population risk of contagion and that the containment policy was working, as Mr Fernando Simón did on 18 February. It is a colossal hoax and a lie, Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, to say that there should be no problem in holding mass events, as Mr Fernando Simon did on 2 March. It is a colossal hoax and a lie, Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, to say, as the Minister of the Interior did this Sunday, that there was - and I read literally - not a single objection of any expert or medical authority to massive events on that weekend, that of fateful March 8, when we already know that there was a health report on March 6 in which it was found that the coronavirus was highly contagious and even that Mr Simon acknowledged that by mid-March there had already been an increase in Madrid. They had the information and they hid it from the Spanish for ideological reasons. And now, so that you can differentiate the bubbles from the truths, I'm going to tell you some examples of unquestionable truths of this tragedy, that reality that you fight with because they are the truths that you want to hide or censor by bribing the media with the money of the Spaniards. For example, it is true that the general councils of dentists, nurses, pharmacists, doctors and veterinarians, with more than 700,000 professionals, have issued a statement criticizing the protocol of action against the coronavirus of the Ministry of Health. It is true that the army has complained in writing about the lack of coordination with the Generality and that you have not yet arrested Torra for endangering the lives of the Catalans by putting our Armed Forces in jeopardy. It is true that foreign media, many on the left, qualify their management as a real disaster, such as Bloomberg and the New York Times. It is true that many people are dying alone in their home, that they do not become hospitalized or that in hospitals they are denied breathers because they are elderly. And it is true, as we have already known in Castile-La Mancha, that the number of deaths is much higher than official data; according to the High Court of Justice of the region, it is estimated that it could triple in that community. It is true that Mr. Iglesias joyfully skipped the quarantine to come and tell the Spaniards that the containment measures had to be tightened. It is unquestionably true that a government as criticized as that of Hungary has distributed masks to the entire population, while the health care workers here have had to misprotect themselves with garbage bags. And it's true that you launch probe balloons of forced internments of asymptomatic positives in a sort of leprosy, ghetto or lazaret, which would have terrible social and also health consequences, according to many experts, for virological concentration. It is true that many Spaniards have died during Mr Sánchez's endless televised speeches, in which we can say that the children have learned to wash their hands. I would ask you, in those Cuban forms recommended by your advisers, at least to spare us the program of Aló Presidente, which some of us would like to replace with the one of agur Presidente. Because it is true, and it is such a tragic and incontestable truth that even El País newspaper has published it, that its government has achieved the highest mortality rate in the world. Your Government, Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, is responsible for the world's worst management in this tragedy. You, therefore, are the most responsible. Therefore, it is true that you must leave. But since you do not want to leave because you want to perpetuate in power, you start to fight the reality, which has already become your worst enemy. You are an uncontrolled government, but a government that wants all the control and has been dedicated during these weeks to gag Congress and watering the media with public money. That is why they did not answer the 1300 questions that this group had put, and that is why they intended to have closed this Parliament, because the work of the opposition was not for you an essential service, but a deeply annoying activity. It seems to you that the essential thing is that they are recorded on Spanish Television was premiered two days ago series and comedy about the imprisonment of the Spaniards - damn grace -, with thousands of dead, or keep telebasures programs in strict direct. But it is not essential for you that this Parliament, the Legislature, exercises control over a government that has given itself a far-reaching and highly debatable power, on which the Constitutional Court will have to clarify, and I assure you that this group is going to take care of it. Here lies the sovereignty of the Spanish people and neither you nor Mr. Iglesias can gag or lie to this House, cannot trample upon the sovereignty of the Spanish people or, at least, I believe that you cannot do so with impunity, that is what your investiture accomplices believed and that is why they are in prison. Stop abusing the patience that the Spaniards are showing with you; with that of this Member and that of this group you are done. We told you, Mr Sánchez, that we would no longer support you if you did not rectify, and the truth is that you corrected for worse. It took forty-eight hours just to manipulate the confidence of this House by twisting the decree to its measure, or to the measure of its investiture accomplices, but of course it did not rectify in its effort to bring Mr. Iglesias into the National Center of Intelligence or to give him more power to threaten the savings of the Spaniards and to endanger the SMEs and autonomous of this country. Mr. Iglesias, who has read to his elders, knows very well that the fastest path to totalitarianism goes through the destruction of the middle class, of businesses, of the self-employed and of those small businesses that do not require the benevolence of the incumbent ruler or of the favor of the State to get ahead. Make sure you don't get mad at them. Mr. Iglesias prefers to be the one who distributes minimum incomes and rations and not that people work their future and own their destiny, because so he will manage in his delusions to be the owner and lord of the destiny of all, a sure destiny, that is, towards misery and oppression. What a pain in the ass you were, Mr. Sanchez, when you said that Podemos would take us to the rationing charts. I must admit that I did not even think that Mr. Iglesias could see the socialist oasis so close, so soon, in the midst of this terrible pandemic. And I'm going on. He hasn't rectified on his equipment, either. It has not ceased those directly responsible for a harmful management that has brought us here and that inexplicably remain in charge of this crisis while you worry about the script of your next appearance on television. In short, after an unrepeatable pile of caps and dark operations, after billions promised, they have not been able to provide means of protection to the Spaniards - masks, gloves, disinfectants, tests, respirators - especially to the most exposed. You don't have a plan to get Spain out of the tragedy or to avoid the misery that comes or that you bring. Finally, it has not given them the desire to renounce chavism within the Government, which threatens freedom of expression and information, private property and even the sovereignty that resides in this House. Mr Sánchez, we are not going to be complicit in your negligence or incompetence, let alone in the sectarianism or totalitarian delusions of Mr. Iglesias. As Francisco Ayala said, incompetence is all the more harmful the greater the power of the incompetent, and the same applies to negligence and sectarianism. We will not be your accomplices, so last week we proposed ten measures that are collected and expanded in the state of alternative alarm that VOX has presented to this House and to which it will vote in favour, measures that contemplate the continuity of confinement, and I solemnly say this in this House because I know that the lackeys of the media to which you have watered with public money will lie immediately after we speak in this rostrum. Yes, we are in favour of the Spaniards remaining in their homes, and I repeat this because the social media brigades, the paid opinionaries and the media very few minutes after this intervention will say otherwise, but it doesn't matter because every day they lose credibility. And it said yes, that our proposal for an alternative state of alarm contemplates the measure of confinement, and also the carrying out of massive tests to the whole population, and the voluntary cyberlocation by the health authorities - and not politics, which perhaps is what some want - and the cancellation of subsidies to parties, trade unions and employers' organizations, and the extension of the ban on lower positions on the stock exchange so that the vultures do not bet against our economy, and press the European Union without stopping looking for bilateral agreements, since Brussels again - as you also announce - seems to be not going to be up to it. And he has invited us to defend Spain in the European Union, which is exactly what we have been doing in the European Union since there are MEPs from our group as you bow to the interests of the oligarchs who are now abandoning them and abandoning us all. And we also propose the cancellation of VAT and autonomous quotas, which will have to be paid within ten days, and the abolition of taxes such as inheritance, and more measures that I have already reported, including the last instruction this government should give before leaving, and I am going to go to it. By the way, you appeal to the Moncloa Pacts for reconstruction when it is still possible, if the Government wants, to avoid destruction. Mr Sánchez, Mrs Calviño - who is not here at the moment - you have promised to raise EUR 200 billion to fight the economic crisis resulting from this tragedy and may not need that much money if you leave. With €75 billion from the Government, the payroll and salaries of the workers and self-employed to whom the Government has prohibited them could be paid in March, April and May. With EUR 10 billion more, workers who are exposed in the front row could be added: health care workers, pharmacists, guards, police officers, the army, transporters, those who work in supermarkets and who continue to work and play it for Spain to work. That is to say, a total of EUR 85 billion, which is certainly a lot of money but which would immediately stop the anguish and the need for millions of homes. Today you spoke of 40 billion for the ICO. We've already got half. Proposals that would prevent the collapse of the economy and that would keep the productive fabric alive in Spain, and it would not be necessary to protect the unemployed because no one would go to unemployment. And that in any case it will always be less than the money that you are going to waste and that Mr. Iglesias wants to distribute to your liking and for which you are going to owe us uselessly. Even so, there is still a great deal of money, but much more has been spent for a very long time on useless policies by the Spanish Government and the autonomous communities. Thousands and billions spent on coup, sterile and harmful ideologies, promoting the monarchy/republic division, man/woman, the countryside against the city, the division on account of the Civil War, and now also the division between older and younger. Now we have to spend it, ladies and gentlemen, now we need it from the Spaniards, and we can get it by cutting all useless spending and by innovating and promoting our industry, our field and our national talent. Spain can do so, Spain can emerge strengthened from this crisis, but for that to happen you must leave. Pay the payroll and leave, please. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u9	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Echenique Robba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, President of the Government, we are living at an historic moment. We have said this many times but it has never been as true as today. We are living the worst epidemic that our country has experienced in a hundred years, a tragedy that is doing a lot of damage to our country, to families, to workers, to the economy, and that will continue to do a lot of damage to our country. And in such a situation, public representatives, but also leaders of social organizations, also opinion leaders, have a huge responsibility because, as I said, we do not live at any time. Each and every one of us in five or ten years we're going to look back and we're going to have to evaluate what we did in this difficult trance. Surely we will ask each and every one of us: Did I work to make less dead in my country? Did I work for less physical, economic, psychological, vital suffering? Did I work to defeat the epidemic at that terrible time? Did I work to make my country stronger? That enormous responsibility for which we will judge ourselves and for which history will also judge us must be at the heart of the political and social debate in the times of the coronavirus. The responsibility that citizenship is undoubtedly showing by staying at home, with the difficult - and increasingly difficult - that it is to respect the rules that the health authorities dictate, especially for people who have fewer resources, especially for people who have housing in more precarious conditions, especially for people who have more problems to reach the end of the month. It is the responsibility that citizens are demonstrating, as the mobility data show, which has been reduced by about 85% in recent weeks; the responsibility of health care providers, who play their lives every day; the responsibility of people who allow us to put food on the table - from supermarket cashiers, from repo machines, from transporters, from farmers -; the responsibility of police officers, from the Civil Guard, from the soldiers of our Armed Forces, who also put their health on the front line to protect us and ensure that the rules of confinement are complied with; a responsibility that also does not seek to protect oneself at first instance, but to protect others, a responsibility that we can also call solidarity for. The vast majority of our people are so, and that is why this is a country that we can be proud of. That is why our country is the country of no war, it is the country of equal marriage, it is the country of universal health, it is the country of the 15-M, it is the country of the only one. But, just as humans are not perfect, so is our country, and we also have a little upbuilding minority of political elites who do the opposite at such a difficult time: in the face of responsibility, irresponsibility; in the face of solidarity, insolidity; in the face of those who fight the epidemic, the political and moral misery of those who try to take advantage of it. And in the first place of that ranking - we were able to see it a few minutes ago - the ultra-right, which today, in one of the worst moments for our homeland, presents a resolution to overthrow the Government of Spain. By the way, a rather ridiculous resolution in legal terms. It seems that Mr Abascal has not read Article 99 of the Spanish Constitution and proposes to overthrow the Government of Spain, to form a ridiculous Government with four ministries and, as his spokesman said before yesterday, to preside over it, for example, Mrs Rosa Díez. This is what the VOX Parliamentary Group is proposing today. And we have also seen - and we have seen it again in the gallery - something that all Spaniards already know, and that is that VOX has become synonymous with bubbles. While millions of Spaniards have to stay at home suffering from confinement, while hundreds of thousands of health care workers play their lives, in what is spent money and the effort the far right is to set up fake news campaigns, lies on social networks with false accounts, false accounts farms, using the learned tactics of Bolsonaro and Steve Bannon, to sow fear, to sow alarm and to sow hatred in our society. Using lies and hatred while thousands of compatriots are dying and millions are playing their lives to protect us is not defending any political position, it is simply being miserable. Please, gentlemen of VOX, from the rostrum: this society is beautiful and decent, stop poisoning it, do like millions of families and stay home, let us work for those we are working to fight the epidemic. As far as the People's Party is concerned, it has been very difficult lately to distinguish them from VOX, Mr Pablo Casado. Instead of fighting the coronavirus, you are lately engaged in fighting for right-wing hegemony by desperately chasing Mr. Abascal. If this Monday VOX sent 52 deputies from all the territories of our country to work for the Congress of Deputies, forcing the workers of the house to come and disinfect and endanger a lot of people, before yesterday on the Board of Spokesmen the People's Party was desperately trying to pursue this strategy and was fighting side by side so that 45 members of the People's Party could be here today. I am glad that you have rectified in this punctual persecution of the strategy of the far right, Mr Pablo Casado. And we are not seeing it only in that gesture that I have just commented on, because, unlike what democratic opposition does in other countries around us, as the President of the Government has commented, here we see Mr Pablo Casado launching daily attacks on the Government of Spain very similar to those launched by Mr Abascal from that press set with a lot of screens that he has wanted to manufacture for this crisis and which looks too much like the captain's headquarters a posteriori. There's a lot of talk about pacts lately, and there's talk about the Moncloa Pacts. I'd like to make some historical notes. The Pacts of the Moncloa began with an agreement between Adolfo Suárez and the Communist Party of Mr Carrillo; the Popular Alliance, the party founded by seven ministers of Franco and which would then be one of the germs of the People's Party, was one of the last parties to join the Pacts of the Moncloa, and among the greatest opponents of those pacts was the Catholic Church, by the advance of public education, and the then President of the CEO, who said of Suárez that he was a leftist Falangist - there are some things that never change in our country. Of these pacts, historians say, the conditions of possibility were created for the approval of the Spanish Constitution, which, when it had to be voted in this House, several members of the People's Alliance voted against. In these days when the far right puts the particular interest ahead of the general interest, contrary to what our Spanish Constitution says, the People's Party is doing the same, is pursuing the far right and is putting the particular interest ahead of the general interest. If forty-three years ago the party before the People's Party was not all the constitutionalist that they want to be today, it seems that today they are also not up to their VOX persecution, their persecution to the extreme right, Mr Casado. Today, as forty-three years ago, you are outside the Spanish Constitution. And speaking of agreements to rebuild our country, I think we are not at that time, I think we are at the time of fighting the epidemic and protecting citizens, but I also think that when we come to that time, it is appropriate that the agreements do not form by trying to impose every political force their electoral program, designed, thought and written in a Spain that did not know the coronavirus. I believe that these new agreements have to be based on what we have learned throughout this epidemic, on the lessons that this tragedy is leaving us, and I believe that the lessons are clear. In the face of the neoliberal speech that we have heard again from Mr Casado, which seems to have remained in 2008, proposing exactly the same recipes that destroyed our country's economy and caused a lot of suffering to many people, there is a social consensus, I would dare to say that more and more in the whole of Europe, which points in the opposite direction, which points in the direction of doing everything contrary to what was done wrong, in a failed and cruel way at that time. It seems obvious that public health needs to be strengthened in our country. It is surprising that Mr Pablo Casado a few days ago did not commit himself to increasing public funding if one day the People's Party had the capacity to govern. It seems obvious that the care system was ill-treated in Spain. We've seen it with the residences. It's terrible what we're seeing in the residences. It is clear that our care system needs to be reformed to give dignity to our elders and to the workers of the residences. It is clear that Spain, which is eight percentage points behind the European average in terms of gross domestic product, must re-enforce Article 31 of the Spanish Constitution, have fiscal justice, because without fiscal justice there cannot be a welfare state. And it is clear that Europe - it has been said here too - has to do quite the opposite of what was done in the financial crisis, it has to bet on solidarity. And I hope, trust and know, Mr President, because I have heard it from your own mouth, that our country will continue to lead the solidarity position in Europe, will continue to fight for Eurobonds and will continue to work to ensure that the European Union does not do what it did last time, so that it will stop being the time of the pro-powerful bureaucrats who dictated the end of politics, who forced the European Union to put the boot on the neck of the peoples of the South and, if I may, who created the foundations of the extreme right that we see today in many countries. I believe that the time has passed for the European bureaucracy, I believe that the time for politics has come, I believe that the time has come for solidarity in Europe, and I am sure that our Government will continue to work in that direction in the European institutions. Finally - I am finishing - on the extension of the state of alarm, I think it is clear that the measures that have been taken are working. I believe that in recent days we have seen hopeful data on the development of new infected and new deceased, and I believe that we must persevere in the containment measures. It is therefore clear that our group will support the extension of the state of alarm. I would like to say in this House, as I did last time, that it is also imperative and fundamental that the Government continue to respond, as it has done from the beginning, to the recommendations of the experts. It seems that the pre-closure state of non-essential activity has allowed us to flatten the curve and it seems that these two weeks of non-essential activity closure are going to allow the curve to start going down. I think that we need to be very attentive day by day to how the curve evolves, I think we need to be very attentive to the advice, data and simulations of scientific teams, I think that the Government of Spain needs to continue to act as it has done so far, demonstrating flexibility in a changing scenario, and I think we need to be careful with what has been called descalation, to do it gradually and to ensure that the curve continues to go down. That is why, Mr President, I would like to convey to you once again the support of our parliamentary group and ask you to continue to act as you have done so far. If we can proceed to an immediate and absolute resumption of non-essential activities and manage to keep the curve down, that will be good for the economy and good for our country. But if we detect signs that such rapid de-escalation is not entirely positive for the evolution of the curve, I am sure that our Government will take the steps it has taken so far and will be able to act flexibly. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u11	Thank you, Mr. Echenique. [[A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum used by Mr. Echenique Robba]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u12	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Since it cannot be otherwise, we add to the condolences for those who are watching their loved ones die without even being able to say goodbye, and to the eternal, infinite gratitude of how many workers are leaving the soul for the rest of us to have a future, and, above all, of the socio-health personnel. I want to remember once again that they should not be heroes, they should simply be well-endowed professionals. To applaud yes, but not to cut, and to privatize as well. I begin by expressing relief, the relief that today there are no forty-five Members of the People's Parliamentary Group, as they announced, on the pretext that it was unconstitutional not to come: the Constitution above health and common sense. The Constitution as a vaccine and the flag as a food, that's your recipe. You're terribly irresponsible; less evil that you've turned your back on. By the way, Mr Casado, to you, who constantly claims to Suárez, I will remind you that during your government the PC was legalized, Alberti and the Passionary were returned to this country, the Generalitat of Catalonia was restored and the Divorce Act was passed. You'd probably send Suarez to jail today. [[Rumors]] As you know, we have been guided by four principles since the beginning of this crisis, and I assure you that it will be so until all this is over. The first, the pride of being Spanish, Catalan, Basque or Galician does not cure the COVID-19. The second, to act as Captain a posteriori or as an epidemiological brother-in-law is as easy as it is useless. During the crises one can think or act; we are much more than the second. The third, we like to believe that no one is in an office thinking about how to take advantage of or harm people during this crisis. Everyone here wants to be right, beyond their abilities to be able to do so. And the fourth, we'll be both critical and constructive. And that doesn't make you any less pure, it makes you more useful. This Government deserves a hard but constructive opposition and we are prepared to do so. Today I will talk to you about now and tomorrow, but above all about tomorrow, so let me go directly and briefly to detail our position in the now. While it is true that we will support some of the economic, labour and social measures presented here today, even considering many of them insufficient and re-centralizing, we can only abstain from voting on this further extension of the state of alarm that they pose, and we do so precisely because it is not new, on the contrary. We shall abstain mainly for three reasons. One, you have to stop, Mr. President, and it's not done. Article 7(c) of the Decree on the state of alarm, which allows for movement to the workplace, remains unchanged. We repeat it over and over again: we have to stop. Any non-essential activity must be stopped in order to have some activity to be resumed tomorrow. They made a patch, they gave a paid leave of fifteen days to coincide with Holy Week, and here peace and then to heal. It doesn't make any sense that, with thousands of infections every day yet, millions of children can't go out to play even five minutes on the street and, instead, the city is full of riders carrying someone a hamburger or a tray of sushi by bike, it doesn't make any sense at all. Either we stop the country or there will be no country or flag to raise, be it the country and the flag for everyone. Two, ineffective recentralization. A clear example is the actual decree of economic measures presented today. A good decree that is loaded, it is loaded with the absurd hatchet that puts the autonomous communities in their quest for liquidity. They open the door to cutting the active policies of occupation of the autonomous communities by more than 2400 million euros. In the case of Catalonia, we are talking about EUR 215 million, 55%. They open the door to that, thus, de facto, leaving less than half of the means available to the autonomous communities to face the post-crisis. Recentralisation is never the solution, ladies and gentlemen, and it is not by nationalism, it is by pure efficiency. No administration knows the land better than the local, the municipal and the autonomous. It is known, by force, much better what is needed and what happens in L'Hospitalet, Leganés or Jaén from an office of L'Hospitalet, Leganés or Jaén than from an office of a ministry in Madrid. If you're looking for liquidity, go to the European Central Bank, but don't put any more pressure on autonomous, terribly tense treasures. And three, the militarization of all this. We have no mania in the army, we have memory of it. And most of all, we don't care. We don't care about the color of the uniform and we don't care about the flag on the arm if it's now to throw a hand. What we are saying is that it does not seem normal to us, it does not seem right to us that in this country 11.5 billion euros are spent each year on a military budget and that there is a pandemic and there are no masks or breathers in hospitals. And that doesn't matter if you're a party so you can report it. I'll move on to what's important, tomorrow. This is not the largest pandemic and health, humanitarian and economic crisis there has ever been, it is not. It is not even the largest pandemic and health, humanitarian and economic crisis our time or generation has faced, it is not. This is the biggest pandemic, health, humanitarian and economic crisis facing our latitude, our environment. The one we thought was just passing past the concertinas is here. The one we thought was just happening in an awkward tent in the middle of nowhere is here. The one we thought was just happening on a patera is here. So hard and so absurd is to see us talking about epics and history. So harsh and absurd, Mr President, is to see you speak today of the Moncloa pacts as the only answer. I'll try to be very clear. What we have ahead does not close with the dome of four parties, an army and a king locked in an office in Moncloa. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no valid pact in Spain without a previous pact in Europe. There will be no Moncloa pacts in Spain if there is no pact in Brussels or Strasbourg before. Moreover, there will be no Moncloa pacts in Spain if there are no Ajuria Enea pacts in Euskadi or the Palau de la Generalitat in Catalonia, at least. And anyone who says otherwise simply lies or pretends to whitewash the bunkerization in which this government has fallen on too many occasions during this crisis. The alleged social counterparts of the supposed miracle of the Pacts of Moncloa never arrived. In fact, the only counterparties were Saudis and everyone knows who they came to. As Anguita said this week, if you do the same thing, the working class will get confessed. The answer to the question of how we will get out of it cannot be to re-edit what has already been done and done wrong forty years ago. The answer goes far beyond that. This pandemic and this health, human and economic crisis is not a war, it is not a war, it is not even a battle. COVID-19 is the name of a virus, not an enemy army, not an enemy country. It has no ideology, no fronts, no weapons, no borders, no flags. And if it catches us without means, it is not because of a fatality that occurred after the attack of anti-patriot and invisible adversaries; quite the contrary, it is because of the cuts and privatizations of very patriotic and very visible adversaries. So hard and absurd is to see three gentlemen every morning with twenty medals in the chest in press conferences talking about soldiers and trenches. It cannot be said that this pandemic, that this humanitarian, economic and social crisis is something unprecedented or that it is a war while you have air conditioning for the summer, heating for the winter, the full fridge and Twitter, Glovo or Netflix for when we get bored. It just can't be, it's an insult to hundreds of thousands, millions of people who have lived with sickness and misery every day while Europe and the West ignored it. If we are now more aware than ever of the disease, the misery and the deprivations that exist in the world, it is simply because that world has come here, to our homes. The world that some thought they could stop with fences and concertinas is here. The only change is that what millions of people have been living for decades is now living in rich Europe. If we get out of this learning that the country is not a wrist bracelet, but that the country is the other, it is the different will be a lot. And this self-criticism, this awakening should be the basis for rethinking a new world, a new world order, a new social and economic agreement born of these failures and ashes. The world is not over, the world is over, the world as we knew it. We here today and in the coming we offer you to start thinking, to rethink a new social, political and human contract, a new comprehensive pact for life under a premise: how we want to get out of it. Today we see both huge and beautiful displays of neighborhood solidarity, but we also see balcony cops. Today a window can be a piece of heaven or a court with judges without toga, neighbors who help and neighbors who give in. Today brings out the best but also the worst we can get to be. One world is born and another one has not just died. You have to take care of yourself and you have to take care of yourself. It is crucial to get out of all this with the imagination that the above, that what we had simply wasn't worth it. If he wins fear, if he wins suspicion among people, we will have taken a step further towards totalitarianism. The fragility of the system is not being tested, the inequality and social violence on which our normality was based, that there were more tanks than respirators was not normal, are being shown. The good news is that everyone already knows it and that it doesn't sound either preterite or grandiose to say it. Listening to irredent neoliberals talking about nationalizing or socializing, the truth is, it's balsamic for those of us who have been denouncing the absolute abnormality of a normality all our lives. The bad news, the worst news is that in the face of the greatest challenge of our countries since 1945 there is no Roosevelt, there is no Allende, there is no Mandela; there is a Trump, there is an Orbán and there is an Abascal. That's the bad news. And that, therefore, this new world will not only have to fight pandemics, against viruses, against contagions; it will also have to fight against the contagion of misinformation and hatred. Viruses even more virulent against the public than the disease itself. If there must be after all a greater fear than the pandemic itself, it must be the fear of not getting out of it being more human. It depends on us and on our values: less Moncloa covenants and more integral covenants for life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u14	Thank you, Madam President. This past week has undoubtedly been the hardest - we already knew it was going to be the hardest - but it has also been a week when the Spaniards began to see a glimpse of hope. And at a time like this - we have all done it and it is rigorous to do it - I want to show special recognition to the people who have stayed on the road, to the families, to the people who continue to fight, to the whole of the Spanish people who have confined themselves with discipline. The World Health Organization has congratulated the containment measures in Spain. We asked for them three weeks ago and then it was an exaggeration. And finally paralyzing the country is the only medicine that serves to stop the contagion curve. The World Health Organization also warns of the risk of trying to politicize deaths or trying to oppose other people's pain. This part I really hope will be heard; not because we have to suspend the political discussion, but because there are some issues that we would have to leave out of the dispute. But public health, which is winning many battles, in addition to applause, needs funding and in addition to funding, needs us to keep the country still. The pause in the country's economy is the only tool to stop the virus. A published study has just come out that says that during the evil so-called Spanish flu of 1918 the cities of the United States that adopted confinement faster, harder and stricter were the ones that could then better face reconstruction. The strict confinement and paralysis of the economy have worked. That is why, gentlemen of the Government, there is no need to loosen up. The Spanish people have endured the confinement in very harsh conditions, much harder than the ones we all endured. And it is necessary that the Government endure the same and persist the same. We have said this several times in this rostrum, but it is essential to remember it: the health of the country is above any economic calculation and any political calculation, however important the pressures, is called as the one who exercises the pressures. No one reduces speed in a race when he is taking advantage and, in this case, taking advantage is saving lives; well, this is not the time to reduce speed. I have read that the Government was considering a certain return to normal from 26 April. It seems to us hasty. Sending people to work, giving people back to the full subway wagons or the full train wagons could be a disaster. It is an unnecessary risk that in order to win ten days let's throw all the collective effort we have made so far or worse: to have to re-decree a new confinement that would be even harder. This war against the virus cannot be won in half, and I repeat once again: they must take precedence over the health of the country and the safeguarding of the interests of the entire Spanish people over the interests of some to do business in the short term, because it is not a fight between economy and life, it is a fight between the short and long term. We can only go out and face national reconstruction if we stop the deaths, if we stop the pandemic. That is why we call for the suspension of all economic activities that are not essential; that, if they are to be maintained, some measures are necessary to alleviate the situation, especially of minors, of children, who are at home and need to leave something after so many days of confinement, social protection is necessary for the country to be confined with hope and protection is necessary for those who work; if we do not have enough masks, if we do not have enough gloves, if we do not have enough measures for those who work in essential services, we must redirect the whole industry under public control so that Spain can produce them. We like the music of a country that leaves no one behind. I have to say it sounds quite familiar to me, but today we don't vote for the music, we vote for the lyrics, and in the small lyrics it turns out that we do have a lot of people left behind: people who stay because they don't meet the requirements, people who are lost in the bureaucratic maze, people who aren't covered by the measures, people for whom the measures are late. We are going to support the request for extension of the extension, but I would like to inform you that in the economic and social decrees the Government comes with the duties not being done, it comes with the duties not being done with regard to this House. The Government is the heir of a progressive majority who has to take care of and seduce permanently, week by week, in this House. He has to worry less about proposing new frames and new photos of all politicians together and more about moving forward with the progressive majority possible to protect the Spaniards and undertake national reconstruction. It comes without the duties done with regard to Europe, then in the reply I will refer to it. We need the government to stand firm on the side of Italy and on the side of France with the Eurobonds, and to stand firm so that if Germany and the Netherlands do not give in and bet on a programme of co-bonds, as the European Green Party has defended, we start to set in motion a Mediterranean programme of the countries that we are about to pool the debt and get out of it together and together. And it comes with duties that are not done with regard to social protection obligations. We have already seen that many people are on the road, there is only one direct, immediate, simple solution that covers everyone and for which there has never been better conditions, and with which you must dare: a quarantine income, a basic emergency income that covers all Spaniards. The Spanish people have fulfilled, they have trusted in the public at the hardest times, they want to trust in the public to overcome the virus and to overcome in the national reconstruction, and you have to give them reasons for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. I confess that I had deleted an adjective from my speech because it seemed to me very hard for today but, after having heard the right, I regain it, and I consciously recover it: go more miserable right opposition than we have; a zafia opposition, irresponsible, dirty, although I see that it has finally not fulfilled the threat of coming here in mass, despite the recommendations made by the President or the Bureau, while millions of citizens fulfilled their obligation and stayed at home. Sometimes their opposition is that of irresponsible malcreated children. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, grow and learn, but not from your counterparts Trump, Boris Johnson or Bolsonaro, learn from your Portuguese colleague that the other day he taught them a lesson of elegance and responsibility. I don't even want to imagine if it was you who ruled, you who tried to carry public health - and who will try again if you again ruled - and now applaud as Pharisees. Fortunately, this country has another kind of opposition, another kind of opposition from many groups; loyal, constructive and - I thought I would never say it - patriotic, but patriotic indeed, not like its full of flags, lies, fakes, chrispation and hatred. Ours is of positive proposals, of rescuing people, and that is why we have drafted five motions for resolutions which we believe will improve the decree: First, to have confidence in the autonomous administrations, which I believe are giving a lesson in loyalty and a lesson in how to do things; therefore, the autonomous communities do not want to be mere executors of government orders. Secondly, seeing the news in all the media today, we believe it is necessary for the decree to collect this: that under no circumstances will the movement or return to second residences be allowed. Thirdly, add a new point to Article 3, which is: given what is happening with the sanitary material and what some desalinated people are planning to do, that the Government intervenes in setting prices for the sanitary material such as masks, gloves, disinfectant gels, etc. Fourthly, at such a dramatic moment in which we have a financing system that generates great inequalities, we understand that it is absolutely necessary for every citizen to receive the same per capita financing in order to be able to deal with this crisis with the same weapons; we therefore call for discretionary transfers to the autonomous communities so that none is below the average; in addition, that the liquidity instruments for the autonomous communities, the deliveries on account of all the financing planned for the year 2020, the loan on the settlement of the value added tax of 2017 or the funds of autonomous liquidity, the normal and the extra, and the suspension of the payment of the interests of the FLA. Fifth - I think this is a proposal that can be implemented now -, that the Administration can continue to bid telematically so that it does not now contribute to curbing the economy, so that when we go out we can start the works already; I give an example: a public school, if we can continue to bid now, if we can continue to work on it, when we go out we can start the works already, and we already know what that means: we would advance the economic recovery. I know that these measures will be taken together and that they may not be adopted, but I ask you to pick them up in that new decree that you will take out on Saturday. Finally, a plea and a proposal. Mr President, ministers, ministers, watch the banks, watch the banks. Hundreds - hundreds - of complaints from the autonomous are coming to us. And finally, a very constitutionalist proposal, as your right wing gentlemen likes. When we get out of this, when the applause ceases, when we remove the robes and white sheets from the balconies, I urge you to make some profit: let us shield public health in the Constitution. Let's be real constitutionalists. I'm done. Let us be constitutionalists of the rights of people, non-constitutionalists of bracelet and mask with the flag. Why isn't there...? Don't you dare? Why isn't there...? We will vote in favour, Mr President, but remember that loyalty and unity are based on dialogue, respect and mutual trust, because, as the leader of the opposition of Portugal, a right-wing man, said, we are all on the same boat and their fate is that of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u17	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Finally, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Before we begin, I want to express our sorrow to the relatives of all the deceased and our affection for all their friends and all the people affected by the coronavirus. Mr President, the constructive, non-critical spirit that the BNG has been manifesting in this crisis has led us to make proposals from the beginning, proposals that we understood necessary, such as the paralysis of all non-essential economic activity, to break the chain of contagion in the workplaces because, as we warned, for us the priority is to save lives and not to account for results. Three days after you rejected it in this plenary, you adopted a decision that was obviously inevitable and, even if it was late, absolutely necessary. Regrettably, valuable days were lost to curb the spread of the epidemic and save lives, because this decision would certainly have had a greater impact if it had been taken before. And we are clear that this was not the case for health reasons but for economic reasons. So obvious that you announce at the same time the beginning and end of this measure before you can assess the need, depending on the evolution of the epidemic, to maintain it or not. And that from our point of view is a mistake. Resuming activity in workplaces, in many cases massive and without adequate security conditions, involves targeting workers at risk of contagion. Is the Government in a position to guarantee this safety for all workers? Obviously not. That is why we wonder how much business interests weigh in the balance and how much the health of workers. In addition, this is a decision that is taken without reaching a clear point of control of the epidemic and without yet a plan of decontainment endorsed by the scientific criterion, so that a decision of these characteristics, in addition to putting at risk the health of people who have to go to work on Monday, can cause an unwanted resurgence that hinders and delays the definitive control of the virus. Abandoning a measure that is working without adequate security measures and without realizing that it is no longer necessary seems to us to be an irresponsibility and a risk, as you said, of going astray. You also rejected the proposal to reverse the process of centralisation - we hope not today - that process of centralisation implemented with the declaration of the state of alarm, despite the fact that it proved to be unsuccessful and ineffective from a practical point of view. It only generated more bureaucracy and chaos in the face of evidence that the State was unable to manage a situation for which it was neither prepared nor prepared. The Government may have chosen to coordinate efforts with those working on the ground, but it chose to centralize. We have no doubt, despite those who rule in Galicia, that it was a bad decision; among other things, because the BNG - and we will not tire of repeating it - has full confidence in the staff of our health system, in all the professionals of the Galego Health Service who, even in difficult conditions and after years of ill-treatment of public health, do their best to tackle this health emergency. Moreover, in the case of Galicia, the decision to centralize the decisions in Madrid was used in a blatant and impudent manner by Núñez Feijóo, a president who has had eleven years of cuts, precariousness and privatization of Galician public health, in order to try to hide his own inaction, inoperability and incapacity under the permanent pretext that he lacks competence. By the way, an attitude that seems absolutely unacceptable to us is to try to take advantage of this dramatic situation of health crisis for the benefit of itself and the People's Party. It seems clear that Núñez Feijóo postponed the elections but not the election campaign. In any case, this process of centralization is part of a set of decisions in the area of health emergency that concern us about what they may pose as a risk to democratic rights and public freedoms; among them, that militarized staging improper of a health crisis. I make it clear that we are not questioning the work that soldiers should do as personnel in the service of the Administration, but the political role that the Government has given the Army, especially visible in the field of communication. It is a scene that seems to us more like a state of emergency than a state of alarm for health reasons. That does not help to combat the coronavirus, so we will be very careful not to limit labour and social rights or democratic rights with the crisis. I'm done. Do we think the state of alarm should be extended? No doubt, yes. Do we agree on how it's being managed? In many respects, clearly not. That is why our constructive attitude will be both critical, because our only unquestionable loyalty is with the Galician people. We owe him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u20	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, President. My first words, like those of my colleagues who have preceded me in the use of the word, will of course be of remembrance, sympathy and sympathy to the nearly 15,000 victims that this virus has accounted for; in memory of their families, who have seen the people they love dying alone, locked up in their homes and without being able to give them consolation, without being able to stand by them at these hard times; in memory of the people who are now fighting the virus, trying to survive, and also of their families who are in their homes restless and frightened because they do not know how these people are. Secondly, these words are also in recognition and tribute to those we call heroes, to the workers of essential services. It is those who make us endure, those who allow us to resist, those who keep us alive hope that we will come out of this, that we will see our friends again and go back to the meeting places. They are the ones who allow us to keep that flame alive in our head and also to endure confinement. Thirdly, and above all, today I would like to refer to and thank in a very special way the workers of the General Courts, the Congress of Deputies, those who are not Members of Parliament, the national police, the cleaners, the ujieres, the lawyers, those people who would not have to be here today if they had admitted to us the request that the Citizens' Parliamentary Group has repeatedly made for this plenary to be held in a telematic way, with virtually no support from any of the groups in the House. Can't this plenary really be held telematically? In the 21st century do we live in a 19th century Congress? We continue in the 19th century in the Congress of Deputies, ignoring that there is the Internet, that we have magnificent professionals who allow remote communication through these means and we would not have to endanger our health, nor that of our families - because we are going to go back to our home and we have been able to get infected here - or precisely that of the workers who are necessary for the plenary to work. Citizens has been the first party to give telematic press conferences with direct questions, without filters. We have used the tools to make everything work, the companies are holding telematic meetings, I am holding telematic meetings with associations, the Board of Speakers is held telematically without any problem, we all understand each other, we moderate the president, we do not step on the audios, nobody has complained about how the Board of Speakers is working, and here, however, we are in the ghost plenary, three ghost plenarys with very few deputies, with the half-empty House. We will continue to insist, the citizens have fulfilled the part of the deal, they are confined in their homes, and we, the Members of Parliament, do not, because it is imposed by the Presidency of the House. We have no superpowers, gentlemen, because we are Members, we are infected just like anyone else, we are nothing but normal citizens and yet we are here and the citizens confined in their homes watching us on television. We are told that the rules of Congress did not cover epidemics. Wow, what a bright idea! Obviously it did not contemplate epidemics in 1982, of course, but that is why the resolutions of the Presidency of Congress, which have to accept the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen, to fill these gaps, can be done - it can be done - telematically. The Members of Podemos, the Parliamentary Group of Podemos, have registered a proposal to reform the Rules of Procedure, although we understand that it is not even necessary, and there they have let it sleep. Well, it'll be processed in his day; well, we'll see when we process it. I imagine that when the epidemic is over, it is when you are going to process the reform of the Rules of Procedure so that we can hold the telematic plenary sessions. Indeed, we will support the extension of the royal decree of the state of alarm. Confinement is the only medicine, we don't have a vaccine, we just have that medicine. The state of alarm is the immune system of the rule of law against the virus. It was we who asked for it for the first time in public: that the state of alarm had to be decreed. Therefore, with our loyal support for the Government of the nation, though demanding, we will vote in favour of the extension. We do not understand how you can vote otherwise, we do not understand that someone wants people to go out on Mondays, that when we have nearly 15 000 dead, when we have all made a huge effort by keeping ourselves confined to the little children at home without being able to go out, the closed businesses, the workers in their homes with fear and insecurity, the autonomous ones with the blind cast, now, suddenly, someone can dare to say that on Mondays we should all be on the street. Let's not ruin this effort, let's make it work. Mr Sánchez, my party, Citizens, is a state party, a party which at this time has as its priority and main objective not to draw political results from this situation. Our goal is twofold: the first, lives, saving lives. The second, saving jobs, being able to rebuild the socio-occupational situation. And it's true, I'm angry too. I've been through the virus, I've been locked up in my house, I've had a fever, I've been drowned. Yes, I'm angry, but it doesn't touch anger, what it touches is the stretched hand, what it touches is the loyal opposition, what it touches is the union. This hand, Mr. President, that of Citizens, take it. It's a loyal hand, but I warn you that it's a demanding hand, that it's not a blank check. We will be behind watching that you comply with the commitments you have made with us and, above all, with Spanish society, with citizens, with businesses, with the self-employed and with families. This is the hand you have imaginaryly to take and to tighten. It must also respond to these commitments, because unilateral measures cannot be taken, they must be agreed with the opposition because in the opposition we are going to give them positive ideas. You have to call the leaders, Mr. Married has told you and I tell you; 13 days ago you called Mrs. Arrimadas. Practically every day you would have to talk to the opposition leaders. We cannot be aware of the Government's measures by press briefings. And I really appreciate that, after being pressured by journalists, he admits unfiltered questions, because now more than ever we need the press, precisely as a control body to the government and as a creator of opinion before people; it can make people feel safe and lose fear. Please don't throw the public opinion balloons probe to see how they fall, because that creates insecurity, creates fear. You talk about the confinement of asymptomatics outside your home, but you don't tell us how you're going to do it or when you're going to do it or how you're going to raise the confinement. Don't throw probe balloons, just report the safe things you've already agreed with the opposition, because we hold your hand loyally, and respond to the commitments. They have committed to us to process all royal decree-laws as bills. They have committed themselves to the flexibility of the hourly recovery of the paid leave beyond 31 December this year, because there are companies that have problems in being able to recover these hours. You have made a commitment, and you have just announced it, thanks to the demands we have made in our plans, not to submit the quarterly declaration of self-employed persons by the IRPF and by VAT; not only the postponement, but not the declaration. You say you're wearing it tomorrow. Be generous and, above all, please, do not again burden the self-employed with bureaucratic obstacles, as with the extraordinary benefit for which you asked for a thousand papers; the administrative administrations are collapsed right now. That is why the good thing about this measure that we have been demanding from you is that you tell us that you are going to take it to the Council of Ministers tomorrow. You're on the right track when you rectify, Mr. Sanchez. So far, it has carried out a policy contrary to the pacts, agreements and consensus, but we see its desire to change and, therefore, we allow ourselves to say that the ERTE will have to last something longer than the state of alarm, because the royal decree will not make the economy reactivate overnight and will have to help entrepreneurs. You will have to distinguish in your economic measures the large companies with a lot of financial muscle from the medium, small and micro-enterprises of the self-employed. They distinguish measures because the financial capacity of both is not the same. And why don't you forgive the RETA's share of the April self-employed? If you're not going to be able to work, if your income is going to be zero. To those who are not in essential services, please cancel the April RETA fee. Let's help the self-employed. Look, the Moncloa covenants were asked in writing Inés Arrimadas. Its pacts of national reconstruction. I am glad that you say that next week that meeting is going to take place, but I ask you, please, that the meeting be truly, not to put medals, not to go out in the photo, not to politically make the photo profitable, but to adopt agreements in good faith; on the one hand, to stop the virus, yes, and also, as Mrs Arrimadas said, to be thinking already of the national reconstruction plan, in the Marshall Plan, how we will have to get out of the huge socio-economic gap in which we will find ourselves when we have already defeated the virus. I promise you good faith on the part of my parliamentary group, but I also demand that you also have good faith in that negotiation and that those pacts and meetings be truly; we are asked by the citizens, they want us to be united. And in that way, Mr Sánchez, it will not seem that you take improvised measures when you have all the united and loyal opposition behind you; it will not seem as it seemed, when on Sunday at 11:30 in the evening the entrepreneurs said: And tomorrow I have to organize my company if I do not know if I am or am not essential service? So we can talk about individual protective measures, whether we're all going to wear masks or not, whether there's going to be a test or not. Don't tell me we're one of the most tested countries, because I've already been through that situation and I'm still waiting for my test, because there's no test! Well, let's discuss it. And, of course, let the Minister of Foreign Affairs not come out and take this issue to heart. Issues like when the confinement is over, when we get back to normal, it'll be gradual... All these things must be spoken of precisely within these new Moncloa covenants. We have to give security to the citizens, to the people, because we have to fight against their fear, their fear is reasonable, it is rational because we are all scared. And, above all, for what, Mr. Sanchez? Why the Moncloa pacts? Not to solve this with ideology or populism. You said it, I take your word for it, the virus is not right, the virus is not left, the virus has no ideology. Therefore, do not use the ideology in the rules to try to resolve the crisis. And please whisper it in your ear, tell it as many times as your coalition government partner needs it: ideology doesn't kill the virus, populism doesn't kill the virus; intelligence kills it, confinement kills it, common sense kills it, pragmatism kills it, moderation, center. That is why we are with you in loyal but demanding support. I say again to you that you take the hand of Citizens; that this hand will also accompany you when you have to go to Europe, where the Parliamentary Group of Citizens has done a tremendous task with regard to the possible sharing of debt with Germans and Dutch; with this hand you will also go to Europe. Or would you rather go to Europe to negotiate the situation in our country and the future with extremists and populists? Are you going to hear it better? Are you going to pay more attention to him? Are you going to be better served in Europe if it goes with that hand, or if it goes with the moderates, the pragmatics, the people who have common sense? I say to you, therefore, that we will be demanding, but that you will have loyalty in us; surely more loyalty than that of the parliamentary groups that led you to be president of the government; surely more loyalty, even that of your coalition government partner, but we will demand responsibilities from you. It fulfills what it has promised because, if it does not, there will be no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In this first item on the agenda, whether or not to extend the state of alarm, one must ask oneself what is most important at the moment, and the most important thing - certainly we all agree - is to end the pandemic, and to do so it is necessary to restrict the right of movement and that can only be done if the state of alarm is in force. Therefore, if we want to restrict circulation, I think there is little doubt as to the need for the state of alarm to be in force and, in that sense, it will have our support, but I do want to do a number of matifications. The truth is that you see the numbers of the pandemic and they're overwhelming, they're tremendous. Today the number of deaths in relation to the previous day has dropped - the data has just been made known - but it is still true that it is a tremendous number and is growing. I too want to send my deepest condolences to the families that have lost a loved one - some of them are close families - but I think we must also send a hopeful message because the data are also. Since the end of March there has been a decline in the contagion curve and there is a release of ICUs that is increasing day by day, so that is a very positive sign. And how does it come out of this? It obviously comes out with collaboration, with cooperation, without a small policy, and for that collaboration, for that cooperation, it is very important to have the institutional actors who will have to carry the day-to-day management of most of the important issues right now in order to get out of the crisis, and those are the autonomous communities, which are the ones who know the management in detail. I believe that this is an example of Germany and how it is taking it with the Länder. You already know that African saying of 'if you want to go fast go alone, but if you want to get far go accompanied'. Well, I think what we lack is more dialogue, more conversation and more information-sharing. Therefore, I ask you to have a dialogue when formulating decrees-laws, there is a knowledge on the part of those who will then have to implement them in most cases so that they can be measured, so that they can have a sufficient and unforced majority in Parliament, as we will then see in one of the decrees, because you also lately do some omnibus rules that you have of everything, good things and things that do not like so much. So it is very comfortable for the government, but of course it is not very comfortable for the political parties in this House, and that is not good, it is not good if we want to maintain a majority. The measures they are going to implement, on staggered exit, etc., I think they should talk to the autonomous communities, exchange information, and also in the next decrees they want to make because there can be no vagaries in decision-making. You can't say one day you don't to a measure and the next day the other way around. Unconsulted and surprising decisions can not be made overnight, unplanned by the haste and which must then be rectified on the move, nor can the legal order be changed through decree-laws and the division of jurisdiction. We're hearing a mantra that says we have to do it and we do what the scientific experts say right away. Of course it is, but governing is more than that because, if not, the scientific experts put themselves in the Executive and the problem is over. No, to govern is to receive information, yes, of the health field, but of the economic sphere, of the social spheres, of the various institutional political agents, social as well, and from there to provide different scenarios, to calculate its implementation, to weigh the pros and cons of one and the others, and hence to make realistic decisions that do not generate confusion but tranquillity and order. And what does that require? It requires taking them in time, in an organized and clear way, and in some cases it has not been done so. In our opinion the Royal Decree-Law 10/2020 is an example - the decree of total closure of the industry -, were eleven of the night and many workers and many companies still did not know what they had to do the next day, then it was matified. But I also want to mention what happened with the purchase of the tests, with ads on asymptomatics, which are nothing precise; they launch an idea, which in the end does not generate security; on the contrary, what generates is a series of doubts. The same is true of the measures announced on this de-escalation. Instead of announcing that maybe it's next week or next day, it's better not to say anything about it and when everything is already planned and clear, it's announced. Mr. President, this isn't a war for me, I don't like the simile, honestly. I believe that this should not be approached in this way, this cannot be a call to epics and heroism, for me it is a question of organization and public protection. In short, it is a matter of effectiveness. Some say that the state is reinforced by this crisis - with the state I refer not to Spanish but to the state as a concept - its role as the refuge to which the citizen comes. Let me put it a little in doubt or at least add some doubts, because on the one hand it gives me the feeling that the state has become small to handle the real dimension of providing health resources and means and also economic ones, because otherwise, the calls to Europe, which are a good sign of what I am saying, would not be understood. We have spent years from Europe delocalizing in China to lower costs, improve profits and generate more profits, and in that process we have left resources, health, industrial, in the hands of third parties, without planning anything in the sense of knowing whether each of the European states are capable of generating this. No, they cannot be autonomous states, but Europe can be that area. Spain probably has no muscle for it, but Europe should and should be our hope and we must work on it in the future. Moreover, the State has not proved to be the best manager because in the end adaptation on the ground has had to be done by the autonomous communities, which have made more effective management even in the acquisition of resources and materials, because in many of these areas the State has neither managed nor manages them as its area of competence. Therefore, there are many things that we will need to review, but there are also some claims that are not so clear. Of course, the European sphere is fundamental. I am not going to discuss it, Mr President. We will speak more slowly because you, by legal order, by legislative mandate, have to come here. I don't know if it's next week or next, but of course there is a very important debate related to the coronavirus. Europe - it is true, we do not have to be fooled - has worked basically as an area of interest, it has not worked much less as an area of solidarity. Let's not be fooled. You have asked and I say this to you clearly: we support your demands and the approaches you are making to European bodies to solidify, through bond issues, that debt is pooled, etc. But we need to know how to build trust in the partners, we need to create the awareness that it will be answered and managed effectively because the effort, the risk on this occasion, will have to run more than Spain. Therefore, I think we must understand the microcosm - which you know perfectly well because you have been working there for many years - in which we are moving and we must understand that position of reticence, but I believe that the time of Europe is this and that the demands and approaches that you are making are correct. But, I insist, we need to build confidence, we need to build confidence that we will then work, from policy, on the measures that are taken, in a correct way. There is a concern in people about the effects of the economy and the latest demoscopic data so testify, it is the first concern, even ahead of the pandemic. And it is no wonder that in March there has already been a loss of 833,000 members, if I am not mistaken, to Social Security. Many of these measures - most of them, I would say - that you have been taking are appropriate and should work, but they are short-term measures that cannot stand if they become structural. I think we should all be clear about that. There are some measures which, if this happens quickly and does not continue, will be good, but unsustainable if they continue and which, even in an already normal situation, would lose quite a lot of meaning. Hibernation, which is a euphemism to refer to the total paralysis of the productive system, is spoken of. I think it is clear that there are fixed costs in the economy and obviously there are capital and reserves to deal with such circumstances, if any, and there are some aids to try to compensate for them, but for a very short period of time, and then we do not know how each of the companies will start. There will of course be a need for redefining, a restructuring of indebtedness, not only of businesses, but also of self-employed, small and medium-sized enterprises and also of families. The truth is that many companies may close and fail, and that must also be said clearly. Therefore, we must try to minimize that and maintain all security measures, provided that they can be guaranteed, with firm work inspections, by inspecting and saying here you cannot or here you have to do this or the other. But we have to maintain some economic activity because, if not, the same ones who are asking for absolute hibernation the next day will say that what is going on here and where the jobs are. And we are talking about that, about jobs, not saving the man or mengano company; no, we are talking about jobs, also about self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises. And for that, Mr President, the proposals or measures you have adopted require agile and unbureaucratic procedures - this is very important - because there are breakdowns in some of the procedures. We will have to think of more areas of coverage that have not been contemplated, and in this regard I will enter into the discussion of the Royal Decree-Law 11/2020. It is also likely that some of these cover measures will disappear, that they will be covered in a more generic way, etc., and I am referring to the idea that has also emerged on a minimum income. We do not oppose this idea if it is well thought out, but I also say that the minister spoke of reorganizing existing services both state and autonomous; be careful to want to intervene what is already working. We do not object because we were the ones who put into operation an income guarantee income in Euskadi and, therefore, the same way - I do not say now - to the future of containing other measures that have been taken, of subsuming them in this formula, could be interesting, but let us respect the competences and not destroy what is already done. Of course, we will have to reflect on these measures and on many others. The social and health model, residences, etc. should be reworded by the competent institutions. I'm running out of time, President, and you've also asked a question about those possible pacts, which I'm not going to name, although you have and those responsible for each party. The Basque Nationalist Party has always acted responsibly; we will always be open to agreements where the interest of citizens is at stake. However, I also want to say - I do not know if the similitude is well sought because of the fact that we are not in 1977 today - that there are democratic institutions, there is an autonomous state, and I think it would be most logical to reside the agreements in the institutions that already exist and with respect for the various spheres of government and decision-making. In any case, I insist, as we do not yet know what this can be achieved, that the Basque Nationalist Party will be present in all that is at stake in the interests of the citizenry and that responsible action should be taken. In short - because I have run out of time, Madam President -, safety, health, cooperation and cooperation, do not bring them - I am absolutely convinced that all the institutions are ready to do so, and I know that it is so - and organisation and planning in the measures to be taken in the various areas, without previous generic announcements, so that in this way with these three premises the future is as painful and as bright as possible. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria-Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I would like to begin my group's intervention in order, on behalf of the Basque sovereignist left, to send a reminder to the relatives of all the deceased and a hug, as well as an eternal thanks to all the people who are leaving their skins and risking their health for all and for all in Euskal Herria, in the Spanish State, in Europe and in the world. These people, these health and service personnel, cleaners and cleaners, cashiers, repomenators, transporters, taxi drivers, farmers and farmers, they and they are, as Bertolt Brecht said, the essentials, the anonymous heroes and so many times ignored, the invisible ones, those who, despite this invisibility, continue to hold the vital thread of our society. They are civilian people, workers, these people and nothing else, yesterday, today and always are the engine of change of history, of any history. And let us never forget this lesson of life, because from this goes what we are living, to prepare for life, to put the life and dignity of people, of all, in the center. And if we talk about preparing for life, we're left with military proclamations, their slang and their parades. It is not reasonable to understand a humanitarian and socio-sanitary crisis in warlike terms equipped with patriotic soflamas; these soflamas may fuel the spirit of some and some, but no one has shown us to have any healing or therapeutic effect. Let no one make a mistake, and I say this clearly: we do not participate in campaigns of extreme right or extreme right bulls; we do not aim to overthrow the government, our aim is to defeat the virus. That position is a firm and determined position of Euskal Herria Bildu. [[The lady]] Fifteen days ago, our spokesman, Mertxe Aizpurua, pointed out that the state of alarm should be extended, but he also said that we would be here again - and we are here today - to give a green light or not to a new request for an extension because it would be necessary and we would say again that it was insufficient, if the necessary measures were not taken; well, we regret having to say again that the measures proposed are not sufficient. Why aren't they enough? Because for us and for us to retreat to the stage of the first confinement on March 14 again put at risk of contagion a lot of people, a large part of the population, putting it before the obvious risk of falling again and again on peaks and plateaus plagued with numbers that hide lost lives. Do you think anyone who can maintain the fall in contagion by increasing people's mobility, when we have been told as active and passive from the WHO itself that mobility is a very important factor or vector of contagion? What are we going to achieve if we get more people back to face-to-face activity in their workplaces; if we get people who are not in an essential company to return to their jobs by filling public transport and working in centers, that they neither before nor now maintain the occupational health measures necessary to make effective that social isolation or that distance of safety we are told about? Can we move towards a new normality if we cannot, therefore, reduce this index and still have today the health system not collapsed, but to the limit? We understand you don't. We intend to go some way towards some kind of decontainment, at least for some sectors of society, the workers of non-essential companies and who cannot work telematically from their homes. And that logic certainly is a logic that accompanies that of the descalation that we are so much hearing about, but we regret to say - it is not a criticism of the government, I want to make it clear - that we are not yet in the mix, that we do not yet have all the medical tools recommended by the WHO to deal with that reality, that we do not have the massive tests in the amount that we should, that we do not have the PPE in the amount that we should. Even in hospitals we are not having the possibility to have all the necessary PPE, they do not have the cell phones and the cell phones, they do not have the cleaning staff, which is also in direct contact with the coronavirus. Faced with that reality, we see risk, we see a clear risk in what is being posed, but we also see something else, and that is why I was telling you that it is not a criticism of your Government or of the action of your Government. We are having difficulty in getting in touch, in providing ourselves with all that, which is necessary, because probably in the difficulties for the acquisition of material we are seeing that the mercantilization of life has also reached those levels, and it is sad to see how business is being done and how prices are being inflated with that reality and hindering the acquisition of more material. Today we do know that Adam Smith's invisible hand was because it didn't exist, not because we didn't see it. People, as well as well, have become accustomed to the harshness of confinement, but we sincerely doubt that they are prepared for successive confinements because we do not achieve the goals of stopping the contagion that we are considering. That's our biggest risk. It's hard to confine, it's very hard, but it's much harder for people to tell you that this is going to be a vital sequential stage in their own lives, because maybe, if we're not effective now, we'll have to re-edit and go through this same chapter or trance for many more times. What is the point of confining ourselves if then many and many are forced to go to work in non-essential sectors, thereby increasing their likelihood of contagion? I repeat again a phrase that Olivier Besancenot said at the time: people's lives, our lives, are worth more than business profits. That is the priority, and not the other, health, because only when we have really stopped the pandemic will we be able to rebuild the economy, first live and then work, and we believe that to achieve this we must maintain the paralysis of non-essential activities as long as there are no health guarantees, and we believe that production will have to be reactivated in a step-by-step manner, provided that the measures are complied with, and for that it is not only necessary for the Labour Inspectorate to be vigilant, but there are many more labour inspectors who can reach all the workplaces, also the small ones, because, if not, it will not be effective. We are also aware that this stoppage of non-essential productive activity generates economic impact, we do not deny it, but not only for large companies, which tighten to reactivate their production. Small businesses, hotels, small businesses, self-employed people, and they and they have been stalled and confined for some time and seeing that they cannot work and that the aid they receive is insufficient. It is clear that the sustained paralysis of the non-essential activity that we advocate must have a plan to deal with the economic consequences, and that plan must inject public money to ensure the basic needs of the entire population: housing, food and resources. You see, a kind of update or transposition of what someone a hundred and three years ago defined as bread, peace and work. In the search for resources we have to start by seeing what we can do, and we can start to claim the EUR 60.6 billion that was given to the bank and did not return, and we can start to tackle corruption seriously so that those EUR 90 billion that some people refer to as the annual cost of corruption in the Spanish state begin to drastically decrease to fatten the possibility of allocating that money to other things. Surely, we also have to work on a truly equidistributive tax, and we will have to talk about a tax on big fortunes. It probably scares some, but surely this way we will be able to achieve what someone defined as everyone according to their needs and of everyone according to their abilities. We will also have to talk about the nationalisation of strategic sectors and we will not have to be afraid, because, at this stage, because of the fear that his Government will be called socialist, communist or socialcommunist, Spain will be the only European country that does not even think about nationalising strategic sectors, because France and England are raising things in that line that do not seem very unbalanced. In order to implement all this, we will also have to look at Europe. You were throwing the glove at us, telling us to defend a clear position in Europe. We are going to defend a clear position in Europe, a position as clear as that which tells the European proceres that this crisis is not going to be paid for by us and by us, as we paid for the 2008 crisis. This crisis is not going to come out with draconian and absolutely Leonian measures such as those imposed by the troika on the Spanish state to get out of the 2008 crisis with the money it lent to it, when they were talking about the PIGS, about the countries of the south, because precisely because of these draconian conditions it had to be cut and it had to enter a path of austerity that also made public health weaken and today, unfortunately, we are seeing it and we are paying it. If they now try the same again, give money in exchange for much more money and that we impoverish our society, we will have to tell them what we told them then - and I hope that this time we are many more - that they will have us in front of them, that they can do other things, that they can increase the deficit. Someone as unsuspecting of being revolutionary as Romano Prodi already said that you can create money, that you can increase the deficit and, if you think it's crazy of Romano Prodi - I don't go in there - you can also think about creating a European tax on wealth, because money flows a lot freely through Europe, much more than people. On the other hand, at this stage of defending our health, that of all, as in economic reconstruction, we will have to talk, Mr Sánchez, Mr President - of course we will have to talk and, if possible, we will have to agree - but that will not be done with unity confused with uniformity, because in the management of the alarm what we have seen is that the Basque self-government has been protected and monitored in a way that we consider not to be appropriate because we believe in the capacities of our society to self-governance. We will have to talk about coordination, yes, but not about re-centralisation, which seems to be the dark desire of some to move forward. We will have to talk about loyalty, why not, but never about unbreakable adherence. We will also have to talk about whether or not we are going to maintain a line of follow-up to the neoliberal model, which is profoundly unfair and unequal. It will have to be achieved once the votes of the CEO's bosses are worth nothing more than the votes of the workers. This will also be a life lesson. And of course we will have to talk about the reproductive economy and care, because if something is teaching us this crisis too is that the important thing is that we take care of people, and we have to value people who take care of people not only now, but always. We do not believe that this can be done with a re-edition of the Moncloa Pacts, as other political formations suggest. We will not be in any pact of the Moncloa that comes up as a reissue of the previous ones. We are pleased to see that on the Spanish left there are also critical - and remarkable - voices about the Pacts of the Moncloa, such as Julio Anguita or as Jaime Pastor. We are not going to be in a Moncloa pact that the only thing you are looking for is to camouflage the application of more re-centralisation and more neoliberal policies on the right to drown people and cut their rights, because that was the objective that was followed in 1977 and that it seems that some - I do not say that it is necessarily you - intend to move here today. Do not, therefore, count on us and ourselves to attack the popular classes and the workers because, as Marx said, history is repeated twice: the first as a tragedy and the second as a farce. If we don't take part in the first one, be sure we don't want to take part in the second one either. We will always be with democracy and democratic deepening, with whom we seek to expand rights and freedoms, but we will not necessarily be - or to be more accurate and without misunderstandings - we will never be able to strengthen the Spanish Constitution. We will not be so because strengthening the Spanish Constitution means strengthening the king's inviolability, means strengthening the monarchy as a figure of political power in the Spanish State, means giving the Army the role of guarantor of the indissoluble unity of the homeland above the free and democratically expressed will of the peoples and nations that make up the Spanish State, such as the Basque and many others. We will not be either because this Constitution is very lax with the powerful, but very rigid with the peoples and with the workers. She already demonstrated it in August by modifying herself to include article 135 that requested the troika. In 1977, as I said to you, the Moncloa Pacts were used to end the class struggle, and this crisis - like that of 2008 - will again be a reflection of the class struggle and we will once again defend class positions and again display positions of defence of our people and of the popular classes of our people. That's why we don't need the Moncloa Pacts. And from that demand for protection to the working class, no one is going to move us. The Basque sovereignist and independenceist left takes care of and moves in the service of the popular classes. Of ours, yes, but also of those of any other place in the State or the world. As the Zapatistas said: for all and all, everything. You - and you said it again today, Mr President - said that the virus knew no borders, and it is true, nothing to object to that assertion. Our solidarity with the peoples and with the workers is also not limited to our own. That is why we ask you to demilitarize the state of alarm; to put in the front row, or in the front line if you prefer to define it, to sanitary and sanitary, to carers and carers, to workers of residences, to responsadores and responsadores of supermarket. Our present and future covenant is with all of them and they, with all the essentials, as I said at the beginning. I end with a sentence, spoken in another context and for something else, but I think it reflects optimism and determination, which is probably what all the citizens who are listening to this debate today also need today. A Basque political leader, still active, said in 2009 - and later a music group, the Chikos del Maíz, more popularized the phrase I'm going to say next and with which I want to conclude -: We were not born to resist; we were born to win, and we're going to win.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u25	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, which now has its turn in reply, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u26	Good morning. Naomi Klein talks about the doctrine of shock or disaster capitalism to explain how multinational companies in disaster situations profit from doing business. She was talking, for example, about New Orleans with Katrina or Sri Lanka with the tsunami. We in the past asked them to be courageous, we asked them to defend the common good; this is the defense of the public, of the simple people, to distribute wealth, above all. But you are doing a crisis management worthy of the worst capitalism of the disaster, one that takes advantage of fear, shock and uncertainty to give way to bank vultures and big companies. Mr President, you mentioned that this is no time for political confrontation. Now is the time for political confrontation because we live, many lives. You have decided to defend a reason of state in which the bank always wins. Firstly, compulsory confinement for those sectors which are not essential for life, with more than 15 000 dead on the table. We understand that this is dictated by IBEX. Otherwise, we don't understand. Secondly, you do not even mention that the bank pays back more than EUR 60 billion of the ransom, but, yes, you do force the most vulnerable families to borrow from the banks in order to be able to pay the rents that you do not suspend. Thirdly, they suspend the payment of supplies. However, in the next General State Budgets we are going to compensate the hydroelectric companies for the losses incurred, companies that not long ago distributed some €55 billion in dividends. And we are still waiting for the agreement that you will have in the European Union, with the panic that a memorandum can entail, such as that which you applied to the Greeks and the Greeks by referendum, which condemns us to decades of misery. On the other hand, they continue with their military rhetoric of unity, empty of rights, which they are going to build without their people, which they are going to build above the rights of the peoples, because we have a Generalitat which does not have a glimpse of sovereignty. Because they continue to impose more fines than COVID tests have done; they continue to allow pharmacists to do business with a vaccine that never arrives; they continue to put no taxes on big fortunes and without announcing a universal basic income. In addition, they do so with a rhetoric of unity, of peace, of the Pacts of the Moncloa. Before Echenique made a constitutional triumph story. Look, the Pacts of Moncloa were, moreover and above all, lowered in wages, peace without justice or memory, consensus without labour rights and without the voices of the unions and the door open to neoliberalism. From the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party we are not surprised, it is once again the friendly face of a state apparatus which is going to support the oligarchy, the monarchy and the entrepreneurs, being to the right of the European neoliberal orthodoxy that even poses nationalization of strategic sectors and basic incomes, but of the United We can sadden us. We are not going to spread here, we are going to quote a song that for us has been a biography of many militant stories: 'We confused the moon with the lighthouses', we sang and we said. You are the pure regime of the 78 and you are taking advantage of the worst crisis that has been experienced in the Spanish state in decades to strengthen commercial power and authoritarianism. In fact, yesterday we knew that the State Attorney General is asking for nine years for two of the young people still in custody for the trial sentence and the Generalitat was asking for three years. Honestly, they leave us no choice but to go back to the streets. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] To the people of the rest of the state, to the peoples of the rest of the state: This is an invitation to fight together, for our grandmothers, for our daughters, for the sanitary workers who are working on the front line without material, for us, to save life. May this confinement be followed by strikes, may this confinement be followed by struggles together, because it will be the only way to save the material and biological life of our communities.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u27	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u28	Thank you, Madam President. There are people who tell me that if I bite my tongue I poison myself, so today I'm going to poison myself a little because I'm outraged, like many people in this country. I am outraged that 800 or 600 deaths a day are said to be an acceptable figure. Indignant, because we forgot our elders and it had to be the UME that told us that they were dying alone and abandoned in their beds. I am outraged that we have 20% of the dead in the world, the second country in positive and dead, and that the level of infection of our health care providers is unacceptable. There are many things that will have to be discussed in depth when all this happens, but today we are not here to judge what has been done, nor is it the day to look for culprits, but to decide on an extreme measure in our fight against the pandemic. Mr President, you come to this Parliament to give the government a drink at the source of democracy and that is very good, but it only comes when you are thirsty and that is very bad. Those with whom you have agreed have taken very little time to complicate your life, but you are very lucky that there are many Members in this Parliament for whom the well-being of Spain is above all and of all. In this Congress, Mr President, we have been exemplary in the crisis because from the minute one, with some inevitable exception, we have been guided by responsibility and the common good, and we have supported the measures that you have decided unilaterally, without having the rest of the political forces. You, Mr. Sanchez, are a bad cook. You only know how to make a political dish: lentils, or take them or leave them. He comes here and confronts us with a policy of fait accompli. You, who are able to negotiate with Mr Torra, are not able to do so with this Parliament, which is inexplicable. The opposition has been even more loyal to you than your own partners in the Unidad Podemos, whose high moral size has allowed them to make an advertising campaign of the social ministries that depend on Mr. Churches. An advertising campaign in the middle of a pandemic, what a shame! Look, Mr Sánchez, Mr Iglesias says that these measures are those of a left-wing government. Well, there is no exit from the left or one from the right to the crisis, it is a lie, it is a triler; there is only one, which is blood, sweat and tears. Stop fooling people. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there will be time, as I said at the beginning, to analyse the enormous failures and risks to which we have put the health personnel of this country, but what we cannot do is to be late for the economic crisis as we have to be in health. Because we may escape the virus just to kill our poverty. We need political parties to put the future of Spain above their electoral strategies. We need to turn the tahurs, the disloyals, the extremists away because it is not their time; it is the time of responsibility and wisdom. We need major consensual measures with employers and trade unions. You speak of resurrecting the Pacts of the Moncloa. In this country we have nostalgia for the transition, that transition that its extremist partners put to birth. The one in which there was unity, consensus and agreement. Those pacts were a social agreement that was signed with two inks, fear of the past and hope for the future. Today, however, we only aspire to repeat the past because the present is disunity and the future frightens us. In a few months' time, we will face an unprecedented economic crisis on the islands. Listen to me, Mr Sánchez, the Canary Islands is going to experience a social drama, an explosion of poverty and necessity. We live in tourism and export agriculture. Spain is going to forget about the Canary Islands again? The worst thing that can happen to the Canaries is to feel a people betrayed and forgotten, do not do it because it will have consequences. Do not turn the despair and rage of an abandoned village into a barrel of social gunpowder. I demand you today, as the President of the Canary Islands does, to allow the money that is in the banks of the surplus of the municipalities, the lobbyists and the autonomous community. It is necessary to cover the coming social emergency. You bring us to this Congress the ratification of the state of alarm. Well, you have the resigned and uncomfortable support of my vote, but in return I would like to ask you to ratify the state of emergency that I bring you from the Canary Islands. In the last big crisis of 2008 in the PP it was said that the PSOE sinks Spain that we will already raise it. But no, it was raised to Spain by the citizens with their taxes and their sacrifice. [[The lady]] The worst thing that could happen to the citizens of this country today is that the same thing would happen again, that the crisis would again be a political commodity of the left and the right. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Casado, Mr Sánchez, are you not even going to be able to agree this time on behalf of Spain? Well, that's sad. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u29	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same parliamentary group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Of course, since the Navarro People's Union our first words have to be of remembrance to all those people who have died these days because of the coronavirus. Because they were people, they were people with names and surnames, they were people who didn't have to die, they were people who had family; people who died alone without their family, who couldn't be fired, who had to be limited to their family who could go and fire them or not at the last moment. And they have not been treated well, they have not been treated well and, above all, those over the age of eighty. The 80-year-olds did not have to die, because they are also people, because they have built this country, because they are our parents, they are our mothers and they have not been respected, and we ask respect for those people, respect! Not those press conferences where they're statistics, where it seems you had to die. No way! Respect, please! We also ask for respect for the unemployed, you can't do a press conference laughing at people who that day lost their jobs, you can't! But does anyone really believe that one who is at home, who has remained unemployed, has to endure the government going on TV laughing and saying that he is or is no longer an ERT? But do you really think that that matters to people who have lost their jobs? Do you really believe that? But you don't have a heart? We must give solutions, not count, not laugh! Not this from now on I'll give you the ball; now you answer. No, sorry, solutions, people are having a bad time! Today, Holy Thursday, people had to be on the beach, in the processions, in the countryside, in the village, where they wanted to, doing sports; but they are at home, all at home, locked up at home, and all the government gives them are endless press conferences to say that we spend less kerosene, that we now bet less? Is that all you can offer to the Spaniards who are at home?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That?- No, no, no, That the kids wash their hands more? Is that all we can offer? And certainty? And what will be your future? And what's gonna happen the day the doors open? And what about the school kids, whether they're going to finish the course or not, and when is it going to end? And no: today it's over, tomorrow it's not over, tomorrow we meet again, the past we stop meeting... sure, that people are in their house suffering! That people want to go out on the street, that's a good day! Sure, you need certainties. A government, certainties. But if the Government is asked - now that it can be asked - the Government has made no mistakes. Thousands of dead, millions in unemployment, all at home, but the government has not made mistakes; the mistakes will have been made by the rest of the Spaniards. The Government has not made mistakes, no, of course not, the mistake is the Government itself, it is the error; that is the error: the Government, which is not prepared for this. But you know - I am convinced - that Spain will go ahead, by its people, by all those who are on the front line, including the military, yes, the military, who are doing a very great job, of course; citizens like others, only lacked, citizens like others! Soldiers on the streets, where they'll be if they don't!; in the streets, helping, which is what they have to do, like the others. Those who are on the front line, but also those who are at home in prison, who are not easy to be at home in prison every day, one day and another day and another day, knowing that the Government does not respond, that the Government does not respond to their concerns. Spain will come forward because it is a great country, despite this government and even though they are still playing to spread things with which it is falling, they have no doubt that Spain, thanks to the Spaniards, will come forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. My support for the validation of the Royal Decree-Law to extend the state of alarm, to whose text I have presented a proposal for improvement that I defend, aims to stop the spread of the VOCID-19 pandemic across the national territory to protect the health of the Spaniards. However, it is not, Mr Sánchez, a favourable vote, but at the same time a virtual vote of patriotic reprobation of your unfortunate management as President of the Government in this health emergency, with acts exclusively aimed at safeguarding, without scrupulousness, your personal image. You have been hiding behind television cameras for two months without correcting your performances and predictions and without giving a single explanation in your Monclovite publications to the real problems that we experience as a result of the coronavirus and that already represent 15,238 tragedies for so many other Spanish families; unofficially, many more. There's no consolation. For all of them, our condolences. It is a vote of patriotic reprobation of the irresponsible attempt to take away the brutal contagion that already devastated Italy in February. Today, Spain has more cases than China and Iran together, 1.5 million inhabitants who fought the virus before us. You have been unable to organize a logistics consistent with the danger of the epidemic and to equip society with the means necessary to confront its aggressiveness. They have not mobilized resources in time to provide equipment and materials to our hospitals and residences to care for infected patients and our elderly. Those who claimed protection for the State Security Forces and Corps were arrested in January. They have made opacity a sign of government identity, turning the purchase of rapid tests into a scandal and - speaking of misinformation, Mr Sánchez - maleating figures of hospitalized, of admitted to the ICUs and, from the day before yesterday, hiding the number of diagnostic tests that are made daily, as well as the percentage of those that give positive results, key and essential data to advance towards the second phase of the confinement. In short - and I conclude with this, Madam President - I am voting in favour of this extension of the state of alarm in order to try to protect each and every Spaniard, but do not count on my support to protect you, Mr Sánchez, and your Government in these circumstances, aggravated every day by your unfortunate management in this health emergency. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Finally, Mr Gimeno has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u34	I want to bring here today a reflection of a Nobel prize, by José Saramago, in his essay on blindness, which talks about epidemics. Curiously, he tells us: Calm down, the doctor said, in an epidemic there are no culprits, all are victims. And on the line of this reflection, which I think is very timely because we are all victims of this situation, I want to say that my group does not understand that we are the only country of all who suffer the epidemic without unity in politics, despite living an immense catastrophe, of historical rank. [[applause]] We are not going to be there; we are supporters of unity, we need unity, as we said in our previous interventions. We will therefore give our support to the authorisation of a further extension of this state of alarm. The heroic and exemplary work of our health workers has been recognized even by the Director-General of WHO, but that 20 000 health workers are infected is too high a price that cannot be compensated by words of thanks and applause alone. We know, because they have passed it on to us, that many of them are exhausted and disappointed. This is not the time to go into detail, now all the effort must go to control the pandemic, but the next day the future of public health in Spain must be solvably guaranteed. If the illusion of our professionals is not recovered, the quality of our health can be greatly affected. The expansion of this pandemic has reached with intensity the areas of our emptied Spain, towns and cities with a very ageing population and therefore with a significant risk along with a great understaffing of health. In this regard, we are particularly concerned about the very serious situation of hospitals and residences in Segovia and Soria. In Soria, for example, with the triple of contagions that the national average, percent to its population, and twice as many dead as the national average, have been asking for help through the SOS Soria campaign for days - weeks already. They should be given priority and immediate attention. Being few does not subtract rights and health is basic for the whole territory, for the whole citizenship. This pandemic is teaching us that we must consider a future with a more vertebrate, balanced country, with a division of activities and population that avoids the large concentrations that facilitate the spread of the pandemic. Yesterday, a study from Harvard University was found that directly relates air pollution and the incidence of this disease in the United States. That is why we must learn and move towards a new territorial organization, as our state pact for rebalancing and repopulation reflects. We must go to a more sustainable Spain and we therefore hope that those issues in our pact will also be included in what the President has just offered, to which we will come if we are called. I would simply like, given the limited time I have, to cite two problems which we believe are extremely important and which have not yet been solved in our territories. The homes of elderly people continue to need effective means. We must arrive with on-site medical care and we must equip them with medical and nursing staff beyond what they have. On the other hand, as regards the exit from this crisis, which seems to be going through digital Spain, it turns out that our whole territory still has no telecommunications service. We do not have competitive connectivity and want connectivity similar to that of other territories, mobile telephone coverage and bandwidth that allows teleworking, infrastructure, business, continuing training, care for the elderly and distance education. We are really Spain disconnected. All the white areas, with lack of telephone, are in Spain empty. That is why we call for the declaration of a universal service, a service that is redefined with 30 mandatory symmetrical megameters and that the necessary means be put in place for its full implementation in the national territory. Once again, I would like to remind this House not to forget Spain empty, weaker in this pandemic and weaker to get out of the economic crisis. We listened a few days ago in the news saying to a rural doctor in Teruel: We have a very aging population. As the coronavirus comes here - there had not yet arrived -, emptied Spain will be buried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u35	Thank you, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the rest of the parliamentary spokesmen have done, let me begin by reminding the victims and their families, as well as the sick and all the people who are helping them to plant this virus. Everything indicates that the curve is yielding and that so much effort is working. For this reason, our gratitude to all of them is infinite. And that is why now is also the time to persevere, not to weaken; it is the time to unite more and to transfer trust, no doubt, no division, no hopelessness. These days we are hearing that this is not a time for politics, that this is not the time for politics; we have heard it in this very Chamber, and let me tell you that I think the opposite is true. I think that right now, at times like this, it is when politics is most needed. This is the time for the best policy, the policy of height and sense of state, the policy of responsibility. I believe that almost all the parliamentary groups and almost all the political leaders have understood this. Of course, there are differences between each other, but most of us have understood that this challenge transcends our ideological and partisan differences. However, there is something that has been repeated by several spokespersons and in some media and that I believe responds to an error. Let me clarify this, because I believe it is also important for Spanish society. As the president said in his speech, the whole West came late, but Spain came before the countries of our environment. In Spain it was six days since the first death by coronavirus was known until public events were suspended; in the United Kingdom and Italy, twelve days; in Germany, eleven, and in France, fifteen days. In Spain, eleven days passed until the closure of schools; in the United Kingdom, sixteen; in Italy, eighteen; and in France, twenty-nine. In our country, twelve days passed until the limitation of displacement; in the United Kingdom, nineteen; in Italy, eighteen; in Germany, thirteen; and in France, thirty-two. By the way, Mr. Married, there are things that don't fit. If you and Mrs. Ayuso had as clear as they now say what could happen, why didn't you buy the material you needed? The President said so in the speech of the previous plenary session. Nothing prevented him and, moreover, it was his competence. If you, Captains a posteriori - as Mr Echenique said - saw him come before the World Health Organization, the European Union and the governments of Spain, France, Germany, Italy, the United States and even China, why did you not prevent the lack of health resources in the communities that govern, especially in Madrid? Or rather, why did they send a letter from the Madrid Health Council saying that normal life should be made, highlighting the importance of keeping quiet and pointing out that the general population could continue its activity normally on 5 March? Mr. Married, if you saw him coming and you didn't do anything, was it out of incompetence or was it out of indolence? In Spain we were not warm in our reaction; we could be late as the others, but we arrived before the others. The measures taken... [[Rumors.-A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] I never interrupt anyone when he intervenes, so, please, I ask that neither do I. [[Applauds]] Besides, today we're little and we're all heard. The measures taken in our country have been and continue to be the hardest in our environment and, for what we are seeing, they are producing results. It is true that avoiding the emergence of a virus like this escapes the control of any country, because it is a global epidemic, ladies and gentlemen, a global pandemic, but what depends on us is what we do in this pandemic. What we do by joining together and adding our strength is good politics and the last thing we need is the low politics that takes advantage of this moment to divide, to sow mistrust and even hatred. Most leaders have understood this and today we are united in a struggle in which, however, we are not all. It is a struggle of the entire Spanish people in which unfortunately the right, the right of the PP, the right of VOX and, for what we are seeing, also the regionalist parties allied with the People's Party are again missing. The shameful spectacle that both VOX and the People's Party have given this week, wanting half of the Members to come to this plenary, encouraging disobedience and boycotting everyone's efforts, is an enormous irresponsibility. I, like other fellow speakers, am grateful that you have rectified after that Board of Spokesmen so hard that we had. Neither the workers of this House nor the Members of this House nor, above all, the people of the territories of the Members who should have been here today and to those who should have returned deserve to have the disease or to be vectors of the disease, as we explained to them on that Board of Spokesmen. What is clear is that exemplaryness does not go with you. I hear you say that the activity in Congress has stopped, and has not stopped. They don't lie. Sometimes you have to start remembering some things here. On 10 March, the VOX Parliamentary Group called for the suspension of plenary sessions and commissions until they passed the quarantine and the People's Parliamentary Group and other House groups called for the cessation of the law-making process. In the meantime, the President has appeared four times, two Ministers have appeared and a Vice-President and the Minister of Health appears weekly in this House. The Government has answered up to two hundred parliamentary questions daily. The truth is that it is incredible that you are dedicated to promoting loudspeakers and lies in the networks, in the plenary sessions of this House and in the meetings of spokespersons. That's it! In this, too, Mr. Married? Are you also going to turn your back on the Spanish in the face of the worst crisis in our country? Does your irresponsibility as leader of the opposition have no limit? Last week in this House the President of the Government asked for unity on several occasions, and unity - I agree with what Mr Matute has said - is not uniformity. We did the same thing to each other, and everyone was looking at you as leader of the opposition, just like today, just like on this occasion. Mr Casado, there are moments that mark a life, and all the Spaniards will remember that when all the Democrats in this House reached out to you, you rejected her to embrace the far right again; all the Spaniards will remember that in these weeks of struggle in which we joined as a people, as a single people, you and only you dedicated yourself to dividing and sowing mistrust. There are crucial moments to choose from, and all Spaniards will remember that society defeated the virus while you were only thinking of beating the government. You speak of loyalty and disloyalty. It is disloyal to spend days with the presidents of their autonomous communities asking for tougher measures and the cessation of all activity and that when the Government decrees that cessation of activity come out in a trumpet to criticize it, that is disloyalty. Disloyal, Mr. Married, is to treat the victims only as a useful resource to attack the Government, a specialty of your party. I quote his own words: They are focusing on the positive of the crisis, they are not showing what is happening in the morgues. And I continue to quote: There are no interviews with the people affected and the media give too much importance to the effort and the overcoming of Spanish society, to the applause of the health workers and to the recovery and discharge of the patients. But what are you thinking about when you make such statements? What do you think when you ask for more about the morgues and less about the positive data? I think, unfortunately, we all know what you're thinking, because it's transparent, it doesn't hide it, but we also know what you're not thinking, and you're not thinking about the victims, the sick, or the families that need help and hope, help and hope right now. [[Applauds]] You're not thinking about the healthcare staff, who's saving lives while you throw stones on everyone's roof. Mr Casado, you cannot pretend to rule Spain and wait for the government to go wrong in a crisis like this. By the way, I'm gonna clear something up for you. To unite at this moment does not mean to renounce any principle, it means to recognize that there is a principle superior to all: the health and life of the Spaniards. That's what we're doing, that's what we want to do for the rest of the games. I have had and have differences with all the parties in this House, with some even big differences, but we all know that this is the time to unite loyally for something more important than ourselves. Every day you tweet attacking the government, Mr. Married, but do you know what you don't mention once in all those tweets you've been so fond of? Do you know what you always forget to say? That Spain's health personnel have already managed to save more people than any other country in the world except China. Find it, Mr. Married, look in those tweets full of hate that every day mentions the curates in the last days; find it, see if you find it. Moreover, it rains on wet, and when the storm is rising, when our country has had to face difficulties, pain and terror, where were you, Mr. Married? Where has the right been every time our democracy needs it? Making a mistake once may be a mistake, but you are systematically wrong always, and that is no longer a mistake, it is a strategy, an unworthy and harmful strategy for this country that you claim to love so much, but which you do not stop dividing and confronting. It rains over wet, and after the speech you made this morning here, you can see that we can't count on you now either. Mr. Married, this mistake will haunt you all your life. The united Spain, the Spain of the balconies, the Spain that is being sacrificed every day does not deserve an opposition that generates division and that feeds bubbles, lies and hatred. It's disloyal and it's unworthy to pay for fake news on social media, as you do. Ask Mr. Monago. I don't say anything about VOX anymore, because they're the specialists. Sometimes you notice so much... your lies are so gross that they get caught right away. You go out and say that we have forgotten the self-employed, and the President of the Union of Independents of Uatae replies, saying that they are very happy because they have obtained the protection they were asking for and even more. You move the bubble that the CSIC had previously informed the government about the virus, and the CSIC comes out to say you're lying. Day after day you are dedicated to saying that the Government is doing everything wrong, but the Director General of the World Health Organization and the head of his mission in Europe are coming out to say that they are impressed by the efforts of Spanish society and the resolution of the Government of Spain. You say that we forget the most vulnerable, but the European Network to Combat Poverty and Exclusion says that the social shield set up by the government is a very positive step forward. They criticize the Government of Spain for having the same problems when acquiring the equipment that all the countries and all the administrations are having; ask Mrs Ayuso, that she is sure she can explain what is happening. Tell him it had to be Ximo Puig who managed to charter a help plane for Valencia and Madrid as well. By the way, he won't listen to President Puig breast-feed for it; he's too busy protecting the Valencians and all the Spaniards, including the Madridns. Ask Mrs Ayuso, who said that this crisis was coming because even our hair rubbers come from China and then added that she did not know why she had not been more foresightful in buying material; that she asked for the closure of Madrid, then confessing not to have any idea how to close Madrid and if such a thing is possible; that just a few months ago she announced the biggest tax rebate in history in Madrid and today she asks for donations to the Madridns and passes the brush to meet her obligations. [[Applauds]] Ask Mrs Ayuso, who accused the Government of blocking the shipment of material to the Community of Madrid. That's false and disloyal. Since 10 March, more than six million masks and millions of euros have been sent to Madrid in health supplies. You say that the government is not reporting, but the data is updated almost immediately, the president appears before the media, the ministers too, and you, the plasma party, dare to criticize him while the president of Madrid, the most affected community, and your health advisor... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u38	...for a month without giving a press conference. [[Applauds]] And yes, yes, I have seen you these days repeating over and over again manipulated data about public health in Madrid, and it is that you like creative accounting very much, you have always been a party that likes this very much. Look, I'm giving you some data from the Madrileño Health Observatory. Per capita health expenditure in the Community of Madrid: in 2015, 5% less than the rest of the Autonomous Communities; in 2017, 8.5 less than the average of the Autonomous Communities; in 2019, 14.4 less than the average of the Autonomous Communities. Beds in public health: in 2014 there were 11,800; in 2017 there were 10,800. Health care staff: between 2010 and 2018 there are 4151 fewer professionals with 175 000 more people in the community. Stop lying, Mr. Married. His party is that of Aguirre, who insulted the health personnel. You have tried to accuse the government of not buying in a couple of days the material that you cut off for decades, of not hiring in two days the health personnel that you laid off for decades, and of not putting in half a day the thousands of beds that you destroyed. That's all right, Mr. Married. Stop blaming others. The last reminder. National Audience. The People's Party stole more than EUR 3 million from health centres and seven hospitals in Madrid, those hospitals in which there are currently no beds, Mr Casado. [[Applauds]] So that's good enough. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u40	I will only remind you that public health saves lives and that that is why we - some of your advisors in the Community of Madrid said: this public health is a socialist thing - are very proud to always defend, as we have done and as we will continue to do, public health. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude that I am running out of time. Last week many of my friends and family, like all of you, started saying that it was hard for them to see the news because it was all hopelessness. I conclude, Your Honor, one minute. All of us were looking for some light in those daily figures, and today we see that things are starting to change, that so much effort is working, that it is time to persevere. We're going to get out of this crisis strong and united, and we're going to get out without leaving anyone behind. Nobody's gonna stay behind. From this crisis, from this unity of democrats, a commitment must be born; a commitment that can be supported by what unites us, because that is what makes us strong; a commitment for a future that is getting closer and closer, which will continue to demand a great deal of responsibility and solidarity from all of us. By the way, as I recall, from the governments of Felipe González, the People's Party has not signed any state pact as it is in opposition. Let us hope that this time it will not be so; let us hope that this time we will join the agreements, because it is important to rebuild one of the largest economies in the world as is ours. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the challenge we have, so let's do it one more time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u42	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups, from the most constructive point of view, for their support for this decree extending the state of alarm. The first thing I would like to say to you is that, without a doubt, there will be time to examine in detail all the lessons of this crisis; to analyse the paradigm shift that it is going to assume, which is already assuming in political action, in decision-making and in its relation to public policies, and to see what can be improved. Here various parliamentary groups have made their reflections and contributions on what issues we need to improve in the field of public coverage, in the area of strengthening or not the welfare state and, without a doubt, in the construction of Europe. The whole legislature is left to do so, ladies and gentlemen, so we can discuss this debate when it comes to it. But before expressing these considerations, there are some questions that we should all answer here and now without doubt, as representatives of the Spaniards we are, especially the ladies and gentlemen who have been most skeptical in their speeches regarding this agreement for the economic and social reconstruction of our country which is proposing the Government of Spain, a sort of new pacts of the Moncloa or as you logically wish to describe them. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is very simple: What is better? Is it better to have an emergency military unit or not? Is it better to have a robust or weak health system? Is it better to have an education or science and research system, which is now essential to fight the pandemic, robust or weak? What's better, having a powerful fiber network that supports our communications at such extreme times where it is clearly necessary to strengthen digitisation over the next few years or not to have it? What's better, having well-trained and trained security forces or not? What is better, having a care system, in our senior residences, for the elderly or not? What's better, seventeen autonomous communities fighting with each other to see who is buying that sanitary material in a market absolutely tense as a result of a global pandemic or seventeen autonomous communities rowing in the same direction? What's better, science or whim, ladies and gentlemen? What's better, unity or division? That's the question. In some speeches I appreciate, logically, as president, that they are afraid of the agreement, because they believe that this demonstrates a supposed weakness, when it is just the opposite; that they would show strength before all the Spaniards, they would show greatness. It is the Government that makes an offer of concertation, and with this they would show not only an exercise of maturity, but something much more important to promote that unity of action to which we are appealing, which is humility, is closeness, is transparency. Only those who do not believe in politics as an instrument for agreement give up an agreement before attempting it. Agreements are often reached as dialogue begins with a constructive attitude, even when it is believed that the fruits they are going to bear are small or are called into question. Why, therefore, is dialogue renounced? There is no answer to this question when it is precisely in a sincere way, as the Government is doing, and also in the face of an unprecedented national emergency, but not only in Spain, in the world, ladies and gentlemen. So I would like to ask you again, therefore, a very simple question which you have to answer here and which you cannot avoid. Some have done so, have responded in a direct, clear, and blunt way. We already know, I imagined, but what is better, unity or division for those who have a sense of state or at least claim to have a sense of state? I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that our democracy is rocky because it defends individual rights at the same time as it defends the common good and because it allows there to be, as there have been during these forty-s many years of democracy, conservative governments and socialist governments, and today, for the first time in the history of democracy, a coalition government. To parties that have taken a constructive position, even if it is critical, I would no doubt like to thank them for their support for the uncertainty from which transcendental decisions are made. Of course, those political parties that have the honour of leading the autonomous communities in circumstances such as the present are clearly obliged to make decisions not in hours, in minutes, ladies and gentlemen, and that does not mean that we do not have the vocation of dialogue or concertation, but that we logically need to respond in a matter of minutes. And to the parties that have taken another position, I want to tell you what I have been saying over these last few days, these last few weeks, and that we do not see them as adversaries and that the Government that I have the honour to preside over, which is a coalition government, is going to continue to reach out to all the parliamentary forces that want to hold their shoulders. Because that is where we are, ladies and gentlemen, pulling our shoulders to save lives and then rebuilding our country and Europe socially and economically. And from Spain we can also contribute to that social, economic reconstruction and I would say that even morale of our continent, of our common project. I believe that the pandemic is proving at a global level that a country alone cannot overcome it, it cannot, and within our country we will not be able to overcome it if there is no unity around the Government, a unity that does not have to be acrylic but, of course, critical, constructive, loyal. I said this at the beginning of my speech: I only offer what I can ask of you, which is unity and loyalty. We need the whole of Spanish society - the whole of Spanish society - to live where they live, to represent what they represent in the social order that we have, be economic actors, be social actors, be political forces, be governments of different colors at the autonomous level, at the provincial level and at the municipal level. That is why, throughout my speech, I have asked you only what I can offer, which is unity and loyalty, and at this point I would like to clarify some issues and be precise on several points because this will logically be recorded in the minutes of the session of the Congress of Deputies. That is why I want to be rigorous in some of the issues that have been raised here, and that is why I want to read in this reply some of the issues that have been raised here, so that they are recorded, because we know that this debate is going to come to an end in this pandemic. In recent weeks, ladies and gentlemen, some information and statements from some political leaders have focused on managing the response deployed by the Government of Spain with the aim of reducing the impact, doubling the pandemic and eradicating the disease. These statements have tried to draw a hugely negative picture, as we have seen from some political groups on the opposition bench; not in all, in some - predictable, logically. Today we have heard some of them repeated in this House. These are statements based on palpable falsehoods; palpable falsehoods, ladies and gentlemen, and I want it to be recorded in the record. They have been repeated to the point of satiety, such as trying to keep the noise from hearing the signal, among other things, some of the following statements: first, that the Spanish Government rejected in the first weeks of the expansion of the virus the calls made by the World Health Organization and the European Union to collect sanitary material during the first few weeks of the expansion of COVID-19. That has been said by the conservative bench. Secondly, it was late in international markets, creating a bottleneck that prevented the autonomous communities themselves from providing health-care resources. This has also been said by the conservative bench. That the size of the number of infected in Spain is not known because very few diagnoses are made regarding other European countries. This has also been said by the conservative bench. Ladies and gentlemen, if we really wanted to stick to objective and contrasting data, it would serve to disassemble this thesis from the very recent report prepared by the World Health Organization on the measures implemented in our country to combat the pandemic. This report was prepared by the Special Envoy, who is working closely with the Government of Spain, whose mission ended two days ago. That report, ladies and gentlemen, has resulted in some public statements by several members of the WHO - which I will remind you later but which I also anticipated in my first speech - on, I insist, the heroism - I will never tire of saying this - of the public workers who are on the front line, the solidarity of the people and the inspiring resolution of the Minister and the Ministry of Health. Obviously, we must recognise - and this has already been said by the Government - that, together with the appropriate measures, better measures can also be identified today. I have said this, ladies and gentlemen, and I do not know why it is being said that the Government of Spain does not take self-criticism; I am saying that logically, with the knowledge we have today, some things from yesterday would make them different. But today's knowledge is not the knowledge of yesterday, not only for the governments - be it Spanish, Autonomous Government X or European Government Y - but also for science, ladies and gentlemen, which is facing a virus that does not know how to treat. We don't have a vaccine, we don't have a therapeutic clarity about how to fight the virus. Therefore, a Government must always be self-demanding. I said this in my first speech, ladies and gentlemen: this government is absolutely self-demanding, self-critical and humble. We hear all the contributions, ladies and gentlemen, all the contributions, not only those of the parliamentary forces, but also those of the autonomous governments. Since the beginning of the crisis not only are there conferences of presidents every week, but also all the authorities delegated to this alarm decree have been meeting through videoconferences, regularly, weekly - up to two or three times, as the Ministry of Health does, with health advisers -. With some of them, in places where there is a greater focus or intensity of the pandemic, the conversations are even daily, as happens for example with the health adviser of the Community of Madrid. Therefore, a government must always be self-demanding and, as I have repeatedly said in all my speeches, the right time will come, ladies and gentlemen, to hold a debate on all of this and to address it in an area that I raised in my first intervention with the Alarm Decree, I refer to the parliamentary committee of study and evaluation to know exactly what has happened and how we can use better public instruments to respond to possible future pandemics. Well, on coordination with the World Health Organization, the European Union and the autonomous communities, some clear ideas for some to be left in the retina, those who continue to insist on lying and bulls. Some clear ideas: Spain has always acted, from the very beginning, in coordination with the WHO and the European Union. In fact, when the WHO declared the global health emergency on 30 January, with 7700 cases worldwide and none in Spain, our country already complied with all the recommendations. On 3 February, with 17,381 cases and one case in Spain, WHO published a draft of the Plan for Strategic Preparation for the New Coronavirus - a framework document containing measures for national coordination, communication to citizens, identification and treatment of cases, logistics and provision of essential services for different scenarios - and in this evaluation, carried out by WHO on 30 March, Spain was at the highest level of response capacity. I'm not saying that, says the WHO. On 4 February, with 27,597 cases in the world and one in Spain, an interterritorial council was convened. All the autonomous communities appreciated the coordination and information they received daily from the ministry and it was found that the protocols were working, from a government - I insist, ladies and gentlemen - that takes possession at the beginning of January, in the second week of January. On 13 February, ladies and gentlemen, with 60 117 cases in the world and 2 in Spain, the EPSCO health group met in Brussels - formation of the European Council bringing together the Ministers for Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumers - and on that occasion the European Commission warned of the risk and urged countries to prepare for a global epidemic. The Minister of Health reported that preventive and preparatory measures were already being implemented in Spain fully in line with WHO, with ECDC, which is the scientific body at European level, and other coordination mechanisms. At the Interterritorial Council of 25 February last, with 80 250 cases in the world and 2 in Spain, the protocols were validated by agreement of all the autonomous communities and the different scenarios were proposed to give a common response in case the risk profile increased. At the Interterritorial Council on 1 March, with 88,913 cases worldwide and 140 in Spain, the autonomous communities were asked to update their contingency plans. On 6 March, with 96 000 global cases - 374 cases in Spain and 5 deaths -, in the second extraordinary EPSCO, the Minister of Health stressed that at that time measures were particularly necessary to ensure the availability of resources through joint purchasing procedures at European level. On that date, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union launched a joint tender for glasses, masks, breathers, diagnostic kits, etc. Spain participated in all joint purchasing proposals. On 12 March, with 124 519 global cases - in Spain, 2950 cases and 84 deaths - the ECDC proposed, depending on the increased risk to Europe at that time, social distancing measures. Spain had already implemented them in areas of significant transmission - for example, in the Autonomous Community of Madrid - and that same day they were extended to all the autonomous communities of our country. On 14 March, with 142,320 global cases, in Spain, with 5753 recognized cases of contagion and 136 deaths, the state of alarm was declared. The Government was empowered to establish a centralized supply when any medicinal product or health protection product was depleted. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that, in view of the scarcity of the area and in order to guarantee health care throughout the territory, national purchases and production could be ordered and redistributed with equity and cohesion in the face of this pandemic that was affecting the whole country without distinction of territories. Ladies and gentlemen, the Autonomous Communities have maintained their competences in health care. There hasn't been a recentralization exercise here. Let us be serious and rigorous at least in this appreciation. We haven't re-centralized anything. Communities have maintained their health skills and have been able to purchase materials at all times. In no case has the competence of the Autonomous Communities been changed, which continues to be responsible for managing and providing health care and providing the technical and human resources necessary to meet these obligations. Autonomous communities, for example, Galicia, Euskadi, Valencian Community, Catalonia, Navarre or Castile-La Mancha - i.e. communities of different signs, and I mean in terms of autonomous governments: left, right, nationalists or non-nationalists - have carried out these purchasing operations overcoming enormous difficulties. Others, such as the Community of Madrid, took weeks to try and took refuge behind apologies such as the bottleneck. No material was ever requested, ladies and gentlemen, nor was any import blocked. This is demonstrated by the arrival of aircraft ten days after the announcement. I shall now refer to the arrival of supply, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the arrival of personal protective items and sanitary appliances, an average daily aircraft with sanitary materials has been on land in Spain for more than two weeks and is being distributed immediately to all the autonomous communities. This weekend four million masks have been received, in addition to other pieces, such as glasses, gloves and protective coats. These are some figures as of April 5, I want to remind you of them. With regard to the elements of individual protection, it has been said that the Government started buying after the alarm decree on 14 March. This statement is false, because before that date more than 414,000 masks had already been distributed - and I want to say it here for the record - to the whole territory and other protective equipment. Since 10 March, that is, long before, four days before the state of alarm was declared, the Spanish Government was already doing so. Prior to that date, between 14 March and 21 March, an additional 3.7 million masks were distributed to the autonomous communities, among other equipment and health products, through purchase processes and ongoing donations. Insufficient? Certainly insufficient, ladies and gentlemen, but it must be acknowledged that this Government has made an unequivocal effort to provide and equip all the autonomous communities with the necessary PPE in order to cope with this pandemic, as we are facing. From the beginning of March until 5 April, the Spanish Government has transferred to the health authorities of the various territories a total of 43 million units, ladies and gentlemen, 43 million units, including almost 25 million masks for patients and professionals, 18 million gloves, 155 000 protective glasses, 238 000 disposable coats and divers and more than 500 assisted breathing equipment, which are fundamental to our ICUs. The Government has signed contracts totalling EUR 850 million, which will continue to arrive from abroad in the coming days. But in addition, and in a strategic plan - for those who have raised it in their interventions - to seek self-sufficiency - because I believe that this is also one of the lessons we have to draw from this crisis - agreements have been reached to produce much of this equipment in Spain. I was just a few days ago in a factory in Móstoles, which is a second generation family company, which is now passing from producing fifty respirators a day to producing more than one hundred respirators a day, in addition to large automotive corporations that, in fact, thanks to the impulse of new technologies are producing respirators that can somehow alleviate the deficit we have in our ICU beds. We have the example of the case of the contract with the Mondragon group, which has been promoted by the Government of Spain, which is going to manufacture 60 million masks in the next six months at a rate of 10 million masks per month to ensure in that descalation that we are so concerned about everyone, ladies and gentlemen, the necessary provision of masks of protective material, not only for the workers but also to recover our new normality, to which I referred earlier in my intervention. About the respirators, I said before - last week I was in a factory visiting the workers and entrepreneurs of that company - the government has bought more than 1500 respirators in a complicated international market and those who rule in autonomous communities know very well that there is enormous tension in the market. We have received more than 2000 donations, which we appreciate, and we have successfully promoted two national manufacturing projects that were confirmed and communicated last Tuesday, as I said before, in relation to Seat and also with a company in Móstoles called Hersill. I therefore believe that we can ensure that maximum levels can be reached to provide all intensive care units with invasive mechanical ventilation equipment throughout the territory. I shall now refer to the rapid tests and the PCRs, which have been referred to by some of you in your speeches. To extend the analyses on the effects of the Spanish pandemic, the Government has implemented a strategy based on two complementary actions - and this I want it to be recorded because there is also a lot of misinformation in some of the interventions that the right bank has made from that forum -: increase the PCR, first of all, the diagnostic tests that are the most reliable and that are being carried out from the beginning of the crisis in hospitals. They are used in Korea in China and Spain, which is one of the countries, by the way, with the highest number of tests performed. I say this and I support it, ladies and gentlemen, we are one of the countries with the highest number of tests carried out, around 20 000 daily, 20 000 daily RCPs. Secondly, it complements the rapid diagnostic tests, once determined by the National Microbiology Centre, which have a reliability of between 64 and 80 %. Positive results will count as cases of contagion and negative ones, in the case of suspected patients, will be contrasted with a PCR test. In other words, these last few hours are being transferred to the autonomous communities one million rapid tests and another four million rapid tests have been contracted, as I communicated to the autonomous communities at the last Conference of Presidents held last Sunday by videoconference. The priority areas for carrying them out logically must be the hospitals and the residences of the elderly. But we have also focused on other initiatives, to which I also referred in my first speech. For example, senior residences, which are the competence of the autonomous communities. We have always shown our most absolute willingness to help. The residences of the elderly, ladies and gentlemen, are, as you know, the competence of the autonomous communities. However, the Government of Spain authorized the action of the Armed Forces for disinfection, issued several orders through the Ministry of Health, even before the decree of the state of alarm, with protocols to separate the positive cases from the rest, and even empowered the autonomous health authorities to intervene in these establishments for reasons of health of residents. The last initiative is to demand detailed information on the actual status of each of them in order to take decisions that are deemed appropriate. It is considered as a matter of utmost priority for health authorities to provide residences with more analytical tests to identify and treat the number of contagions and other protective elements. In recent days we have also seen that the number of new cases, and especially new ones hospitalized and admitted to ICU, is slowing down. I believe that in this we must all be unanimous, at least in the assessment of the figures. That we'd like her to be older? Undoubtedly, but here are the effects of the state of alarm and the so drastic measures that we are taking and so harsh for all the homes of our country. The sacrifice of so many millions of Spaniards and the titanic task of health professionals are allowing the curve of new contagions and new hospitalizations to stabilize and even descend in some areas; there are some areas of our country where it has already descended. That's because we all, or almost all, row in the same direction. Experts say you're walking on the right path. Critics, in my opinion, are always necessary to improve, I mean it, with humility, are welcome, although many of them do not have a constructive intention, as has been made clear in this rostrum. But the misinformation, the practice that practices it, will always be defeated, as today, with dates, figures and data. It is surprising, of course, that these voices come from people who want to make a lot of noise but who make deaf ears to the evidence. It is curious that they continue to boldly repeat that the Government has rejected the appeals of WHO, especially when the WHO authorities have clearly and on several occasions - not on one, but on several occasions - endorsed the opportunity and feasibility of Spanish decisions. Let's do a little review, ladies and gentlemen. The Director-General of WHO, 11 March: Spain is an example of any Government's approach to combating COVID-19. The Director of Public Health of the WHO, the Spanish María Neira, on March 15: All the measures that I have seen decided in Spain have seemed to me very adapted to the situation at every moment. If they have now decided to climb this way, that is, one day after the state of alarm - so important will be because they have assessed that the situation has changed and that it deserves this kind of action. WHO Director for Europe, 5 April: Deeply impressed by the heroism of front-line workers in Spain, the solidarity of people and the inspiring resolution of the Government of Spain. Moderate optimism at bold, innovative measures and courageous decisions. WHO Director General, April 6th: I couldn't agree more, I am very moved by the enormous efforts being made by the Government of Spain and the people to combat COVID-19. WHO is in solidarity with Spain and will continue to provide the necessary support. My thanks go to WHO Europe, on a mission to Spain, led by Dr Bruce Aylward. Mr Casado, the first question I would like to ask you is: what does it mean to confine Parliament? What do you mean by confining democracy? What do you mean? I've appeared three times, Your Honor. Two ministers and the third vice-president have also attended. The Minister of Health attends weekly, as we have after the first decree extending the state of alarm. The Government has answered around 1800 questions written by the various parliamentary groups since the beginning of the health emergency: 1800 questions. For you to have an idea, in pre-crisis situations, about 800 questions would have been answered in a similar period; today we are in 1800 questions answered; 1800 questions The Government also sends documentation permanently to the committees, to the Bureau of the House, which meets normally. We're being a model for Spain. Or don't you think so, Mr Casado and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group? You don't think so? [[Mr. Casado Blanco: No]] Well, don't get colored, Mr. Married. [[Rumors]] Just tell me one thing: what do you want, therefore, to say...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u44	What does it mean, therefore, that Parliament is closed, that there is a confinement of democracy? I'm going to tell you, and I have to tell you, Mr. Married, even if it weighs me. Mr Casado, do you know what the activity of the Parliamentary Assembly in Madrid, the autonomous community most affected so far by COVID-19? What is parliamentary activity? Tell me, Mr. Married; I'm sure you know that. It is suspended until 12 April and the regional president has not appeared since 11 March, Mr Casado. [[Several Members: He is in quarantine!- Rumours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u46	Mr Casado, do you know what the parliamentary activity of the Andalusian Assembly is? Do you know that? Parliament's activity has been suspended for the duration of the state of alarm and the President of the Andalusian Board has not appeared once in the Andalusian Assembly. Do you know what the activity of the Murcia Assembly is? You can be told by Mr. Aegean, who is from there. [[A Member: He asked to appear]] On 16 March, the suspension of his activity was decided and since then his president has not appeared once, Mr Casado. And do you know what these three autonomous communities have in common: Murcia, Madrid and Andalusia? May you rule there with the support of the far right. [[Applauds]] You rule with the support of the ultra-right and do not want to explain anything when you rule. It is an accredited basic difference between you and us; you demand what you have never given, nor give, nor will you give. So how can you say, Mr Casado, that there is a confinement of democracy and that Parliament is closed? In addition to all the activity carried out, starting next Wednesday the usual sessions will be resumed, which we logically hold. On the deaths, Mr. Married, I say to you: do not go that way; indeed, do not go that way. Spain has the strictest death record in Europe, as several media have already shown. Don't go that way, Mr. Married. This is because, on the one hand, we follow the protocol established by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, established as a disease communication system by the European Commission since 1998, and, on the other hand, we follow the guidelines established by the WHO, which require reporting all confirmed cases, that is, those with laboratory confirmation, regardless of clinical signs and symptoms. Therefore, Mr Casado, I would like to say again that, as we become more familiar with the virus, we gain time to overcome it and we gain time for the agreement and that, without a doubt, there are issues on which it is much better for you not to slip. Today he said from the rostrum that this of the new covenants of the Moncloa seems to him a trap; two days ago he said they were a decoy. Anyway, I think they're a national obligation, Mr. Married. What I propose to Congress is something very serious, Mr. Married, does not imply a change of regime and is a sincere proposal; I reiterate the offer of heart. This is a great national agreement for economic and social reconstruction, involving all political forces that want to hold their shoulders, involving all trade unions and employers, and of course the autonomous communities as well. It is precisely what most citizens demand, live where they live, feel what they feel and vote for what they vote in the elections when they are called. We need the People's Party within Spain, but we also need pressure in Europe, Mr Casado. I would love to hear what proposals you have been able to share and discuss with colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party. Therefore, Your Honor, what I ask you to do is to beat the virus, to do it together, to buy time, because we need it, precisely, until we find the therapeutic remedy, until the world finds the vaccine, with viable, united, united proposals. The proposal for new Moncloa pacts, for this great new agreement for the economic and social reconstruction of our country, will always remain on my side, Mr Casado. Mr. Abascal, I now want to address you and the thousands of bots that work for you from social media. [[Applauds]] The truth is that it is difficult to make a reply to you, because they have been placed in a land where words no longer make any sense. If you have demonstrated something in your intervention is to have many problems, but one of them, above all, is not to understand the meaning of the word bull, lie, misinformation or fake news. If I did not misunderstand you - I will have the opportunity to listen to you again, but if I did not misunderstand you - your proposal to overcome together the global pandemic on the planet and which is also suffering from Spain is the following: that the Government resigns completely; that we replace it with a national salvation government, chaired by you, I suppose, Mr Abascal; that we mobilize the army to take control of the situation; that we apply prescriptions, as you have said, to spend 80 billion euros on paying workers' payrolls and, at the same time, to radically reduce taxes and, finally, logically, to prosecute the Government of Spain. This is not new, because since you have never recognized the democratic legitimacy of the Government, I fully understand that you have that spirit. Mr. Abascal, hate is a very dangerous instrument. You miscalculate, Your Honor, and I hope you realize it yourself. We can all be right or wrong in our decisions - without any doubt! - but in the face of the hatred that you and your political group spread, the Democrats will answer you with the hope of overcoming the disease; a hope based on the effort, the resistance and the moral of victory that the Spanish group is demonstrating. [[Applauds]] I would like to thank Mr Echenique, of course, for all the support and firm loyalty that his group is showing at this very critical moment. You have indeed referred to the new Moncloa pacts, to this agreement for the economic and social reconstruction of the country, you have called for unity and loyalty. You have raised something that seems important to me because we are talking about that now is not the time for politics, as the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and some speakers said before, and it is true that in these new agreements for this economic and social reconstruction of our country there is a lesson that you have put forward in your parliament and that I think it is fundamental, and that we need to strengthen our welfare state; that, of course, digitisation has come to stay; that, for example, we cannot afford to widen the digitalisation gap in our education system, as we are seeing right now, depending on public institutions. By the way, also those autonomous communities of one or other political sign that govern and manage this public education. Similarly, as the spokesman for some party in the Joint Group has already said - I refer to Mr Teruel's Group - all digitisation linked to cohesion and territorial inequality; also, science and research - you are a scientist, as you have said in some other intervention - that green agenda, because we are going to have to draw resources from future generations and, consequently, we will have to make investments not only for the reindustrialisation of our country, but also for those generations, to whom we are going to draw those resources, a more sustainable planet. A labour market, ladies and gentlemen, which we have also seen has not worked, has again not worked when we decreed the state of alarm and, consequently, the magnitude of the impact on our labour market was first-hand seen. Who were the first to be expelled again? For the most precarious workers, the workers with eventual contracts; workers whom, ladies and gentlemen, we have granted unemployment benefits to potential workers. For the first time in history, it has done so as a progressive coalition government, thanks to the contribution of the Socialist Party and the United Nations Podemos, and I also thank you for your support. There is no doubt that the European Union too, where, of course, we are playing to a large extent something that Mr Rufián was commenting on, is that, in fact, these major reconstruction agreements cannot obviate the European side. There we have to find a balance between the different formations. Indeed, I agree with you that descalation must be as cautious as possible. We must, logically, be very aware of what we are playing at and that we are entering a very uncertain territory, because there is no country, Your Honor, that is right now with a certain road map one hundred per cent of the effectiveness of those descalation measures that we can implement in the future. In fact, I think I can remember - the Minister of Health will be able to correct me if I am wrong - that it was this very week, at the end of the week, or yesterday, when the European Union itself has already started working with the various countries - I am referring to the European Commission - in a road map, in a guide, of descalation for the whole of the countries. Mr. Rufián, I thank you for your appreciation and I gather all your concerns. I fully share with you that this virus does not understand identities. Indeed, there are many prophets of the past, extraordinary prophets of the past, all past bulls are Manolet, Mr. Rufián. [[Rumors]] Indeed, I agree that all the autonomous governments and all the municipal governments want to be right, act in good faith, so does the Spanish Government. Of course, I appreciate the criticism and constructive tone of your speech, but in addition to that gratitude, logically there are things that I do not share. We have already said in the previous debate on the alarm decree and the extension that the role that the Government of Spain is giving to the Army I believe is very important and fundamental, so I cannot agree with your assessment. You have divided your speech into now and tomorrow, I will try to answer those two questions, now and tomorrow. In relation to the now, you refer to economic hibernation. Look, this is one of the most profound and serious debates that we have had on the part of the Ministry of Health, on the part of the team of descalation and also on the part of epidemiologists to know exactly what is the most effective measure, because, obviously, what we want - and in this believe me, I know, moreover, that you have no doubt about it - is to save lives, that is our main objective, our main priority, we have no other, to save lives. So what we are doing is responding to that urgency, to that emergency. I have said this on many occasions, we have always tried to guide our decisions on the basis of science. Right now, science is clear that confinement, isolation measures, mobility restrictions stop the contagion and therefore stop the pandemic. Secondly, logically, we cannot ignore the socio-economic consequences of this whole derivative, and I do not say this - as some other parliamentary group commented - to appear folded to so-called large corporations. No, I say this because of the measures of the royal decree-laws that will be susceptible to debate and validation later, if you consider it so; measures that have to do with the support of the self-employed, the enterprises, the SMEs, the social economy, the workers who remain unemployed or who are receiving an ERT as a result of the temporary suspension of all economic activity. I want to tell you a lot of things. The first: What's better, we all stay confined until May, until June? There are discrepancies, Your Honor, when speaking to epidemiologists and scientists. Among other issues, because right now what is happening in Spain is not that there is a contagion outside the homes, but that there is a contagion within the homes. Containment therefore acts on an obvious reality that we have to respond to, which is the contagion and spread of the pandemic in a very accused way outside our homes, but now, of course, where most of that contagion is occurring is within our homes, for many reasons that have a lot to do with the compact cities that we have in our country, unlike other societies, such as the American, which, except in certain states, have, logically, a type of urbanization, urbanism and coexistence very different from ours. What I want to say with this, Your Honor, is that confinement has to be accompanied by other issues, other measures, which have to do, for example, with the elaboration and carrying out of tests, of the RCPs and, to a lesser extent and in a complementary way - and it has to be supplemented - by rapid tests; it has to be accompanied also by a seroprevalence survey, which the Government of Spain is going to develop over the next few days, and it has to be accompanied by a supply, a collection, a provision - to workers in the first place and, secondly, to citizens as a whole - of the materials necessary to be able to defend themselves and protect themselves and protect themselves from the extension of COVID-19 when we can all go out and recover that new normality. Therefore, economic hibernation, Your Honor, is already taking place and is taking place because we are seeing it, for example, in the unemployment data or in the data also of the workers together with the companies that have hosted the ERTE, to which Mr Esteban and other parliamentary groups referred. I want to say with this that the measures we have put in place since 14 March with the alarm decree are very hard, they are very hard for our economic fabric as well as for our productive sector. The number has previously danced to me, it has not been 580,000 self-employed who have already received the cessation benefit, it is 850 000 self-employed who have received the cessation benefit. And that, logically, has a correspondence with the hardness of the measures we are implementing at the state level. So let's not just stay in economic hibernation, because that way we won't be beating the virus either. I insist, now the contagions are occurring within the homes, not outside the homes. That is why it is very important to complement it with other measures such as those I referred to earlier. Honestly, Mr Rufián, I can be criticized, but constructively, it cannot be said that the Spanish Government has re-centralised its powers. We have not re-centralised competences, what we are doing is coordinating and trying to respond in an effective and equitable way, for a progressive Government like ours, equitable to a reality that has overflowed all the territories; and if we did not enter as the Government of Spain to try to give coherence, logically we would not have been effective enough. Health management, as I said before, is in the hands of the autonomous communities; the residences of older people are in the hands of the autonomous communities. What we have said has been that they implement a series of protocols and we have also offered the Armed Forces to disinfect those senior residences. We are holding weekly conferences of presidents, for the first time in the history of democracy. It is said - and it is true - by some autonomous presidents that these videoconferencings are more informative by the Spanish Government to the autonomous communities than to co-sponsor the various institutions. They're right, maybe we need to improve them. It is true - to you it will have happened - that videoconferencing has limitations, logically, and that is something that we will have to improve. I also accept that criticism, but what I cannot accept is something that is not true, and that is that we have re-centralised the competences. Moreover, look, we decreed the state of alarm on 14 March, among other issues, because we have always defended the autonomous state and we have always believed that the autonomous state was strong enough to deal with this health emergency with its competences. We took that step precisely when we saw that reality overflowing. And that's the criticism that the opposition makes me, Mr. Rufián, it doesn't make me another, that's the criticism that makes me. About tomorrow, you said we're in a paradigm shift, I agree. Yesterday is no longer the case, we will see if today is the case tomorrow, but it is clear that nothing is going to be the same, but neither in Spain nor in Europe. Look at the debates that we had just over a month ago, debates that needed to be debated throughout the legislature by this House and that we are not going to refuse, but that is that right now we are not talking about it, we are talking about saving lives. And of course there has been a lot of ideology in austerity and in the excuse that some governments, for example, have used with austerity and some political options in their autonomous governments to cut public health. That is why, in this paradigm shift, Your Honor - call it what you want, the Moncloa pacts, economic and social reconstruction - it is clear that we have to incorporate Europe without any doubt. It is clear that we must also incorporate a reality that did not exist in the 1970s, which are the autonomous communities, and I have also offered it to all the presidents at the last Conference of Presidents. It is clear that in matters that have to do with, for example, the most immediate morning - for following your line of intervention - the descalade, I have already offered to the various autonomous presidents to share those decisions. I am criticized, ladies and gentlemen, for asking the Spanish Government to give us a map of public infrastructure that we can use in the event that we need to use it, but I am also criticized for not being sufficiently foresight and anticipation. Or one thing or the other, but they can't both be! The Government acts in good faith, ladies and gentlemen; it acts in good faith in an environment of extraordinary complexity and uncertainty. I do not want you to support me or to support one hundred percent of what I do, but at least to empathize; to empathize with the ignorance that the science has of how to act in front of a new virus for which we do not have vaccine, for which we do not have a therapy that can remedy it urgently, we are seeing it, and yet Spain, as the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group said before - to which I also thank this paragraph, which underlines this fact - we are a country that has more than 52 000 people who have been cured; that also says a lot about the resilience of our National Health System. Therefore, we will of course call everyone, this is not a closed four-party agreement in a room, make no mistake, Mr Rufián, this is an open agreement, which you have to relegitimate, for this paradigm shift in which we are forty-six years after the transition, to our country and to our common project which is Spain and which is Europe. Mr Errejón again talks about harsh, strict containment measures. I say the same again: let's not just look at an angle, a perspective of this crisis, because it has multiple perspectives. There are other ingredients that we have to incorporate to be able to overcome the virus and that have to do not only with containment but also with the preparation of tests, as we are beginning to do now; with the study of seroprevalence that we need in our country, and without any doubt also with the provision, first with import and second with self-supply thanks to the national manufacture - to which you also made reference in your intervention - of masks, gels, etcetera, that we will need. In other words, it is not only the confinement, which we defend, that we are telling the Spaniards that they are going to have to stay another fifteen days at home, of course we are defending the confinement, and this past week we have also promoted a video conference with the various social agents precisely so that the social agents, that is, employers and trade unions, in those services that are not essential, agree on how to provide PPE to the workers who come to their job from next Monday. As far as social policies are concerned, we are working precisely on that vital minimum income. To follow a little the thread of some reflection made by some parliamentary group, Mr Rufián, for example, and Mr Echenique too, it is clear that we have to change public policies; it is clear that we have to redefine, in this paradigm shift, public policies, and one of them logically is basic income or minimum vital income. Precisely, the Second Vice-President of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, also the Ministry of Inclusion and Social Security and other ministries, for example the Minister of Finance and Spokesperson, are working to enable us to implement this vital minimum income as soon as possible, with all the cautions that the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party had previously commented on. I absolutely share what Mr Baldoví says. Lessons for the future, many, and much of the analysis and diagnosis that you have done I clearly share. I have valued it many times from this rostrum; for example, when we regain the universality of public health, who do we draw inspiration from? We are inspired by you, in Valencia, in the Valencian Community. See if we had not guaranteed today in Spain the universality of public health as bequeathed to us by the previous Administration, what situation would we have? Even the far right is saying that immigrants should be withdrawn from any form of public health provision. I remember that in the last debate Mr Echenique was saying precisely that it put the public health of the whole of Spanish society at even greater risk. We applaud the reversal of some hospitals, even I think I remember that it was an element of debate in the politics of your community, when the privatization of hospitals by the previous administration of the People's Party was reversed, hospitals that today are public thanks precisely to the action of the progressive government of your community, of which your party is also part. With this, I can only applaud and support those lessons for the future that we all have to take into account. Trust, all in the autonomous communities, Your Honor; trust, all. In fact, what the Minister of Health is doing is talking every day with the Health Councillors and every week with the autonomous presidents. I believe that there is a great deal to be done and one of the lessons we have to draw from this crisis is not so much the re-centralisation, which some of us are going to propose, among other things to hide some of their shames in recent years, but to reaffirm and strengthen the autonomous state; that is what we have to do and of course that is where the Socialist Party and the government that I chair will be located. With regard to the second residences - the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of Transport will be able to correct me - I believe that this is settled in the different orders and in the alarm decree. It's a matter of civicism, Your Honor. I will also tell you that, because of the information I receive from the Minister of the Interior every day, the Spanish are complying with the rules of confinement with extraordinary exemplaryity, and some of the images of blockades that we see are not so much because people want to leave, but simply because of the controls that are being put in place by the National Police and the Civil Guard to ensure strict compliance with these difficult rules. As far as price fixing is concerned, we agree. We have already made some progress, and we will also do so in the area of masks. It is clear that there is an inflation in that price; it is also true, Your Honor, and this is something that must be taken into account, that until today - I hope that in very little time the Spanish industry will be able to manufacture, as I have said before for example with the cooperative Mondragon, millions of masks to provide the whole of the citizenry, and especially the professionals who are on the front line -, what we do is to import those masks and, therefore, we are also importing the inflation and speculation that is happening with the masks. Before they cost cents and today they cost euros, but they not only cost euros to the Spaniards who go to the pharmacies but also to the Government of Spain and the autonomous communities when they go out to buy these masks. I shall stick to the proposal for a telematics tender; let me study it, Mr Baldoví. We agree that banks should be monitored; this is one of the recurring issues on which the Economic Vice-President is on, and I am aware that this is so. Therefore, Mr Baldoví, I warmly appreciate your support and indeed dialogue, trust and loyalty are mutual. We may disagree on some issues, but, in fact, we share both the spirit of saving lives and the orientation of how to save them, in the present and in the future; I think that is most relevant. Mr Rego, with regard to the confinement, I believe that I have answered both Mr Baldoví and Mr Errejón earlier, I have also told Mr Rufián, I do not know whether you will then have the opportunity to discuss some of these issues. I would also like to say, as I mentioned earlier to Mr Baldoví, that this week we have promoted social dialogue and that both employers and trade unions are in that social dialogue in order to comply with all measures to protect workers in the field of occupational risk prevention. I can't share with you what he says about recentralization. I just want to say to you, for example, about the Army - on which you have also made a critical reference - which, according to the Minister of Defence, until yesterday 122 senior residences in Galicia had been inspected and disinfected and 10 were planned for today; that is, something good is also being done by the Army and the Armed Forces in Galicia. Mr Bal, with all due respect and with a constructive spirit - indeed, I am grateful for the support of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group for the alarm decree - I have to say that you also govern in Madrid, Murcia and Andalusia and if you call for transparency and accountability of the Government in this House, it would be good if you also demanded it from the People's Party where you govern with them. In any case, I am grateful to you and also to you for making a loyal, state-owned opposition. These new Moncloa pacts, as I said before, are going to be opened, all the political forces who want to hold their shoulders are going to be there, and it is clear to me, from conversations I have had with Mrs Arrimadas, that she too has that interest. I did not understand what he said about distinguishing actions in relation to the productive fabric, because in this EUR 20 billion we have launched for guarantees to businesses through the ICO, 80% of the guarantees are guaranteed by small and medium-sized enterprises and 60% for large enterprises. I mean, we already take this into account. In any case, I would like you to comment on this much more clearly. Your Honor, there's always ideology. Nor should ideology be rejected in the political debate. I think it's important. Obviously, we are faced with a larger issue that unites us all, regardless of the ideological discrepancy we have. I maintain that there have been autonomous governments here that, on ideological issues, not on economic resources, have privatized the public health that was in their hands, and today we are seeing precisely the effects of these privatizations. They have done so not on technical grounds, but on ideological grounds. And there are other autonomous governments that today benefit from the reversal of the privatization of hospitals that are now public, from the non-conclusion of hospitals that are today in private hands. In short, Mr Bal, I believe that also in that paradigm shift we will all have to remove some of the centimetres that we gave as good as our ideological orientation. I have heard of defending people who were previously in Citizens and who are out today - I understand that they must be more or less in the same orbit - the basic income, a minimum vital income. Before yesterday they did not defend him and today they defend him. I want to tell you with this that I understand that since constructive criticism we will all have to review some of our proposals as well. You've made reference to Holland. Anyway, he's a government of his political family. If you convince them of the mutualisation of debt, Mr Bal, in Europe, you will not have contributed to the construction of Europe and its economic and social revival. Mr Esteban, I thank you for supporting the state of alarm and your constructive criticism. Obviously, we assume responsibility in the part that touches us and we are very aware of the particularities of each autonomy. The Minister of Health tells me. The cooperation, collaboration and coordination we have with the Basque Government and the Health Council is absolute, total. I have to say, moreover, that we have publicly appreciated the solidarity of the Basque Government with other affected autonomous communities - I think it is noble and legal to say this here - and that we are also very sensitive to the particularities of each autonomy in order to implement, as I said earlier, the measures that we have adopted, such as, for example, the willingness of the Ministry of Industry to coordinate with the Basque Government after the adoption of the royal decree to which you referred earlier. It is true - I said earlier - that this decision is taken, among other issues, because we were raised with an immediate horizon of collapse of the ICUs, which today, apparently, with all the cautions, logically, seems to be drawn. Obviously, with all the cautions because it will depend and much on the evolution of the pandemic. And in relation to the staggered output, so much the same. I insist that we are acting in good faith and we cannot be criticized for unforeseeableness and on the other hand that we want to anticipate. This is simply what we are proposing from the Spanish Government. With regard to the royal decree-laws, of course, I wish we had more time to respond. One of the discussions that we have also had in the coalition government has been when to launch some of these measures. Obviously, we have an internal job to do, of debate, also to see the evolution of the pandemic, but that does not mean that we do not have the vocation to dialogue and to agree with other necessary political forces and that they are also demonstrating, like their own, loyalty to the Government of Spain. On the European Union, I agree with you, it is time. I understand the issue of the confidence that you have raised, that we have to give all governments to Europe. This was a government that projected a government deficit reduction horizon at the end of the legislature to 1% or less than 1% of GDP and we were on a path to reducing public debt. All of this, Your Honor, has jumped into the air, but not only for Spain, but for the whole of the European Union, because the immediate economic horizon we have is black. Therefore, we will have to act with all the necessary springs. Mr Matute of Bildu criticises - it is a constructive criticism - that we come every fifteen days to extend the alarm decree. I am already telling you that I am convinced that within 15 days I will have to renew the alarm decree, but if I ask for an alarm decree of one month the opposition says that I want to jump into Parliament, so I prefer to come to this House every 15 days to ask for an extension. I am convinced that within 15 days I will have to do it again, because we will obviously not have put an end to the pandemic and, if I do not ask, it will be because we will have such extraordinary news that I prefer not to say it. Mr Matute, I think I have responded to some of the questions that you and other parliamentary groups have raised about the toughness of the confinement. He believes that for us, Mr Matute, the key is to save lives and defend the health of workers, but I insist that it is very important to be aware that the pandemic is not going to defeat it alone and exclusively with confinement. We have to do other things. The level of confinement we're asking citizens for this long month that we've been in is very hard. Mobility has been drastically reduced and there is no doubt that the state of alarm gives us the capacity to react quickly if we see any resounding, which we hope will not happen in the coming weeks, but I would like to say one thing, Mr Matute, and also to the other groups of Members who have raised this question. We referred to the evil so-called hibernation after Royal Decree-Law 10/2020, but the effects of that hibernation, of that retrievable paid leave, have not yet been seen. What we are recording right now are the results of the containment measures implemented with the first decree and then with its extension. From this weekend on, we will see the effects of these extraordinary measures that we launched almost ten days ago. I say this more than anything because on many occasions we have to be aware of the temporal horizon of the measures we are putting in place. What is very clear is that with the measures we adopted in the first real alarm decree we have stopped - and a lot - mobility because the Spanish have complied with the confinement and restriction of mobility, and that 4% that we are recording right now, which is still high and that we have to reduce to zero, is a consequence of all the efforts we have made since the state of alarm decreed on 14 March. The results of the measures we adopted just over ten days ago will begin to be seen next week. I say this so that we are aware that this data does not have to do directly with economic hibernation, with that retrievable paid permission, but with the alarm decree in its initial design, which is the one that we resume from Monday. This is also important for the analysis and constructive criticism that you logically make and that we assume. I am simply saying this so that I can be more clear on this issue. And I share with you, as other parliamentary groups have done, the issue of self-sufficiency. It is true that we have to guarantee national manufacture. I insist that there is no re-centralisation of policies. It's not in my mind to refocus politics. I am a strong defender of the autonomous state and I am a strong advocate of decentralization of policies. I have always argued that education and health, as Mr Rufián mentioned earlier in his speech, improves in the hands of the administrations that are closest to the citizens. I am a strong supporter of the principle of subsidiarity which governs the European Union. Therefore, we act when we are forced to do so to ensure public health and save lives in each and every territory of our country. Mrs Vehi, spokesman for the UPC, said that we did not defend the common good. Aren't we defending public health? Aren't we supplying it? Insufficiently or late, you will be able to criticize me for that, but this government has regained the universality of public health, has put more than EUR 1 billion in the hands of public health, in the hands of the Minister of Health, precisely to give an equitable and efficient response to this global crisis. Finally, I believe that I can be criticized for something else and I accept the criticism, but saying that we do not defend public health and that we do not defend the welfare state, I think it is a criticism that is not very sympathetic to reality. We're in a paradigm shift, I agree with you. I do not, of course, agree with the solutions that it proposes. And among them is the minimum living income, which is a new public policy that we will put in place as soon as we have the opportunity. Mrs Oramas spoke about the exit from the crisis. I agree with the change in paradigm, in the lessons of the past; there is public health, there are care policies, also of elderly residences - you have ruled in the Canary Islands for many years and you know perfectly well how important it is to strengthen these care policies - and logically we not only defend national cohesion, but also territorial cohesion, and of course we will always try to provide solutions to the Canary Islands. Mr García, from UPN, I only agree with one thing you have said, and that is that Spain is going to move forward, that is for sure. I wish it was with you too, pulling your shoulder. Of course we empathize. I believe that in your intervention what you have come to say indirectly is that we must empathize, and we empathize, we provide solutions. I would like you in your interventions to provide solutions and not just complain; provide solutions, tie your shoulder and we will certainly assume constructive criticism in the most humble way possible. I insist, I offer what I can give, which is unity and loyalty, solutions and certainties, of course we do, Mr García, but, I insist, we have to anticipate scenarios. I wish those scenarios didn't happen, but we have to anticipate them. It's duty. His party has ruled in Navarre for a long time and is also aware that governing, managing, implies anticipating, pedagogy and, therefore, that's what we do, we are not incorporating any more uncertainty, but in an absolutely uncertain territory like that in which we move in this global pandemic we are trying to cast the greatest possible certainty. If not, what are we doing with different groups that are affected as a result of this economic closure, what are we doing with the eventual workers who are on the street today but are going to receive a benefit, what are we doing with the self-employed, that 850 000 are going to receive a termination benefit, what are we doing, for example, in strengthening public procurement at state level to provide PPE to the autonomous communities? For we are trying to give certainty in an absolutely uncertain crisis, but not only for Spain but for the whole planet. Therefore, Spain is going to get ahead, I have no doubt about that. As far as Mr de Foro Asturias, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is concerned, I am not surprised by your speech, although I am naturally grateful for your support. And to Mr Guitarte, who has made an appeal to territorial cohesion, to which I have previously referred, and has also made an appeal to something important, to unity, I would like to say that of course you are invited and convoked to these great agreements that I hope can materialize within a short time. And in this area of unity, I would like to recall, as some spokesman did, the words of the Director-General of the World Health Organization himself who spoke that the first thing was national unity. And Mrs Lastra, I would like to thank you for the support of the Socialist Group. It is indeed the moment of politics, and of politics as an agreement, that is true. We have the bad fortune, I don't know why, that when the People's Party is in the opposition we can never reach state agreements, it has to be when the Socialist Party is in the opposition. But, well, the time will come for political debate on what has happened and how we have to look to the future, and logically we will have to say many things, too, but obviously if after 2008 we were very clear that if we want growth to be sustainable we have to ensure that it is also redistributed, today that logic and that evidence is even greater. If we do not have redistribution through a strong welfare state, we will be very vulnerable to phenomena that have a lot to do with globalization, as is precisely this pandemic. Mr. Rufian said something I share. Pandemics have occurred in many places, in Africa a lot, annually, but not on the scale of the pandemic that we are living in each and every country. But, indeed, it is also a cure of humility for the West. This represents for us a cure of humility because no one had foreseen that a pandemic could spread in this way as accused and as intense in an advanced and developed society as Western society is. I do believe that somehow we are in a kind of war; I do, ladies and gentlemen. I believe this because we are talking about a global crisis; I believe this crisis has no precedent - I said earlier that we could have as a reference point the year 1918 - I believe this because of the extraordinary mobilization of economic, social and human resources that we are seeing in all areas, also on the front of research - I hope they will be successful soon - and I believe this also because nothing is going to be the same. Therefore, in that scheme it is more than obvious that we need the unity and loyalty of all political forces. The time for reproach and criticism will come. Therefore, resistance, unity and the spirit of victory. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. I have listened to all the speeches, as I said before, with interest. I assure you, I have taken note of all your suggestions. Those who vote in favour of the Government's proposal to extend the alarm decree are grateful on behalf of the Government and, I dare say, also on behalf of all Spaniards who, in the majority, overwhelmingly majority, support these extraordinary measures for an exceptional moment. And the answer to criticism, more or less well-founded, more or less virulent, is the same: we are all united by stopping this virus. So, unit. I sincerely believe, and I have believed for a long time, since before this emergency began, that some of you are afraid of the agreement. The word "agreement" is called and it seems that we are beginning to put epithets: this is a decoy, this is a trap, this is an occurrence. They are afraid of the agreement when they do not rule, when they do not have the strength to guide, or to command, because what they do is not guide, it is command. But we are more of those who understand otherwise the politics and the exercise of public representation. As I said at first, ladies and gentlemen, seeking the agreement would show its strength, but also its virtues. With the agreement they would also make visible their attitude, an attitude of being an example for citizens not only by respecting the state of alarm, but also by proposing solutions to reduce time to the virus to the extent that we save lives. So all I ask, ladies and gentlemen, is what I said at the beginning of my intervention, unity and loyalty. On March 25, he invited them to reflect at a time when citizens have the focus on each and every one of their representatives. Make the effort, I ask you; do it for all the Spaniards following the example of the effort they are making daily in hospitals, on the roads, in supermarkets, in the streets, in their homes. Think for a moment about what is happening in the world and the reading that Governments and opposition are doing in other parliaments of the world, not far from here, in the world, ladies and gentlemen; in the world. Make that effort for this country you love so much, they say. Because here there are only two options: to overcome the crisis with agreements, with constructive proposals and demands within the framework of unity and solidarity or to be the only country in the world whose opposition offers as the only alternative the controversy by failing to rise to the greatest health emergency in the history of our democracy. In the first option, ladies and gentlemen, you will have all my thanks, all my respect and all my support. In the second, as President of the Government in a twice-extended state of alarm, all I have to do is re-place them to the agreement, to the courage to be up to it, as are millions of people in our country from their homes, from their hospitals, from our roads or from our markets. Show your strength and your virtues, ladies and gentlemen. Be faithful reflection of the best of Spain. Be that mirror in which all the Spanish and all the Spanish are recognized. There is a great country outside this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, waiting for solutions and proposals, for which more time needs to be saved. There is a great country outside this Congress that hopes not to wait any longer. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. Mr Casado Blanco has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, do you want the Group of the European People's Party to approve the state of alarm? It is that anyone who has heard your intervention, judging by the insults and defamations that have poured upon us you and your spokesman, may think you are wishing not. Do you want us to take part in supporting the most drastic measure that has been adopted in this House during a democratic period in the face of the inefficiency, by the way, of your Government? I don't ask you to thank us, but at least I ask you to explain in the counter-reply what you want from us. And I'm telling you honestly because I think you've been portrayed in front of all the Spaniards, and so has your spokesman. You come here bound by the Constitution, which every fifteen days requires you to come to the Spanish courts to renew an exceptional measure that has given you the maximum powers for a president of our history, having had the minimum votes; you are the president with the least votes and the least support of your parliamentary group in the history of democracy. You have indeed curtailed parliamentary control; we have had to demand it, and you have not answered a thousand written questions that we have asked you. Now he says he's gonna extend the state of alarm. We found out in this House, we're getting better. On the previous occasion we found out about the press and the previous one about the autonomous presidents. But, I'm telling you, it's either very well explained in the counter-replication or it should take very good advantage of these fifteen days of quarantine, because we consider that your spokesman and you have wanted to blow up all the bridges of collaboration with the People's Party. Mr. Sanchez, I don't know if you've listened well to Mrs. Lastra. I really think he hasn't given us more time to insult us. He has come to say - I have pointed out - that we use the victims and throw stones on the roof of health professionals. That must be for my brothers and my family of nurses and doctors, Mrs. Lastra. And he has also said some very big words about the work of this party in its history, which I ask you or the Speaker of the House to withdraw. Mr. Sánchez, are these your Moncloa covenants? How long has the mask lasted, the lack that you want to agree with the opposition to circumvent your responsibilities and the absolute management, that everyone already judges as insufficient and incapable, not only the Financial Times, which is the only newspaper that you have highlighted? Frankly, the door they have given to these pacts has collapsed throughout Spain. And right now you have only the responsibility, as leader of the government, to explain to the Spaniards why you wanted to short-circuit any understanding with the party leading the opposition. You ask loyalty for your person and you ask unity for your hypertrophied government, you believe that the Spaniards are your vassals, but it has become clear today that we have no good sir. Don't make us commulgate with mill wheels, with these lentil pacts, as one Member said now, with these pacts to confine ourselves to the Moncloa, which is already the epicenter of the coronavirus, not only in contagion, but also in economic and health management incapacity. If you want pacts, come to Parliament, which you have despised this month, and to the groups which you continue to denigrate. If you want a pact come with those who respect the Constitution, private property, individual freedom, the rule of law and the separation of powers, who have put at risk during these three months of government. Open up if you want the Senate's General Commission of Autonomous Communities to employers and trade unions, but leave this trapping of pacts that you have blown up in the air today. They accuse the autonomous communities of not having anticipated it, but I have reminded them that article 14 of the General Law on Public Health automatically makes you responsible. They accuse them of sending them letters; they lie about the contents of them, the one of 5 March asked that there be no demonstrations. But they forget their letters from last July demanding that the autonomous communities cut back more on public health spending. They talk about cuts, but they hide that the government in which you were sitting in that seat as Mr Zapatero's deputy left EUR 16 billion of health debt and cut EUR 1.5 billion of public spending on health in just two years. We had to rescue him, pay those 16 billion euros and leave 37 billion euros more in the year 2018, defrosting, by the way, the salaries of doctors, nurses, colerators and auxiliaries, who also left frozen. [[applause]] You criticize private health, but your deputy president of the government and your deputy secretary of organization of the Socialist Party choose it when they are infected with the coronavirus. That's called hypocrisy. Don't lie anymore, Mr. Sanchez. Even Oxford's report invents it; it speaks only of containment measures, not of the effectiveness of governments. Don't lie about my friend Rui Rio, the leader of the Portuguese opposition. If you read the session logs of the first session in which I supported the state of alarm you will see that I was quite more decent to you than he was to Costa, but there is a difference: Costa is doing things right and you can no longer do things worse. Don't lie about acting before anyone else. He acted with a quarantine when there were already 288 dead on March 14. Do they look like few to you? He doesn't lie when he talks about the massive tests we've been asking him for a month and if it's possible they won't fail. It does not lie about health equipment with 20,000 infected doctors and health professionals. Do not lie or do not warn us about the number of actual victims. The Civil Registry and the Ministry of Justice are within its competence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u49	Mr. Married, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u50	I'm done, Madam President. There are already 15,000 victims in Spain. How many more have to die to decree national mourning, to change the color of his tie? For an idea, 15,000 people are the entire population of El Escorial. Does it seem to you little to ask for national mourning when asking for state funerals for other types of victims, which we also think is very good? His intervention and that of his spokesman will be remembered as the most unjust, ungrateful and disloyal in a pandemic or at times as critical for a population as the Spanish one. You were not credible in speaking of national reconstruction when parties that today continue to flag the destruction of Spain took you to the Presidency of the Government, but since today you have shown that you do not deserve the support of the opposition. Their lies, arrogance and incompetence are an explosive cocktail for Spain. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u51	Thank you, Mr. Casado. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u52	Thank you very much, President. For a moment, Mr. Sánchez, when I was listening to you talk, I thought you were busy going live on the news, and that's something that surprised me. Because you have not come here to answer the speeches of the main groups in this House, you have come to make a second speech and that is why you brought them to your computer. Small groups have been more fortunate, but we have met with a government president who came to ask written questions to the opposition. The government of the bull has sent us to its spokespersons today - Mrs Lastra, Mr Echenique and then Mr Sánchez - to spread bulls and tell lies, to talk about farms on social networks, about bots I don't know if Russians, Venezuelans or Iranians. Looks like you're some great experts. What happens is that Podemos no longer runs the networks. What happens is that yesterday 500 000 Spaniards took part in the first online demonstration to ask for the resignation of this government, and you do not like that. And they have come to spread another bull - Mr Echenique has done - saying that fifty-two MEPs from VOX came to the House this Monday to put workers' health at risk. You lie, sixteen deputies of VOX came, with very clear instructions: to have passed the quarantine - which you do not respect - and with the instruction not to require the services of any Congressional worker, because we do respect the Congressional workers, which you have not done in the Ministry of Health or in the Palace of Moncloa, where workers who had outbreaks of infection were hidden. And don't you come and talk about respect for the workers, start paying them Social Security. What bothers some is probably that we control the government and that's why they come here to control the opposition. Mr. Sanchez, no wonder you're talking about bubbles, you've come to do a cartoon of VOX. What you say I said, I didn't say. [[Mr. President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: Right?]] No, not at all. You bring prepared answers and therefore tell lies about VOX interventions. And he says we're here to spread hatred. I assure you that we do not hate you; you - with all due respect - do not care, but we do hate the way you govern and we have the right and duty to tell you in this House. You lie about everything lately and think that by repeating a lie a thousand times it will turn into truth, but many Spaniards no longer deceive us. In town, yes, but fools don't, Mr. Sanchez. Before you go why you don't answer the questions, why don't you tell us how many dead people think have been hidden in the statistics, how many Spanish people with names and surnames who have died haven't been counted in the official figures of dead people you give us. We have a right to know and you're not going to tell us, but we're going to find out. But don't answer me, tell the government of Castilla-La Mancha, who is the one who told the High Court of Justice of Castilla-La Mancha when he said that the dead in the region could be triple, that they count in the same way as the rest of Spain, and you came here to say that they count in the same way as the rest of the world. But what we want to know is how many have not been told. And now you have become a great champion of the World Health Organization, which you dislodged. Yes, to which they hated, because the Minister of Health said on February 13, responding to the recommendations of the EU and WHO on the collection of material, literally: Spain has enough supply of personal equipment at the moment. Do you hear the echo of your statement? Because it's still heard. They passionately claim to the World Health Organization, which they once hated. I don't know, maybe it's since it seems that the Chinese dictatorship has also bought itself the World Health Organization. I'd ask you all to be alert because in six months' time, if we don't protect ourselves, it's gonna be all Chinese, except the virus. Mr Sánchez, we are going to vote no and we are going to do it because it is a huge irresponsibility to give you powers because we do not even know how many victims have caused by your disastrous management, with the highest mortality rate in the world. In short, you are not credible to us, you are not reliable, you are concerned only with defending your image and protecting yourself, when what needs to be done is to protect the Spaniards. I recommend that you tell your advisor to stop looking at policy series and allow you to take politics seriously. But, with that mortality rate, with thousands of dead Spaniards, I honestly believe that the only serious thing you can do is pay the payroll and leave. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u53	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Echenique Robba has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, first of all I would like to convey to you the support of our group, also personally. Not only has it been up to you to lead a newborn government in the worst epidemic in the last hundred years, but it has also been up to you to do so with one of the most disloyal oppositions in the world and that more sticks on the wheels put on your country's government, as everyone knows. I am grateful for the response to our approaches to a cautious descalation as well as for the statements he has made regarding the need to implement as soon as possible a minimum living income. I think one of the things that is going to make this epidemic clear is that people who are having the worst of it are more difficult to deal with a situation like this, and there are many people who are not self-employed, who are not workers, who are not small entrepreneurs who have not yet arrived at the real decrees that the Government has been publishing, and in that sense a minimum vital income, if I may be redundancy, is vital. At the end of the speech, because I believe that everything fundamental has been said, I want to do something that we usually do in science. Almost all research in science, at least important research, begins with a question, a surprise, an unknown, which can be stated by saying: How can this be? I think there are a lot of people right now seeing us from home having a bad time, suffering, or in the front line of battle, like the health workers, working every day; see this plenary, see the debate, see the extreme right that already had a network campaign prepared - what Mr Abascal does from the rostrum is to generate the videos for the prefabricated campaign of attack on the government -, see a People's Party that in the figure of its president is being offended with the government, is being offended with the parliamentary group of the PSOE and the United We can, when it has been weeks attacking the government every day from the captain's headquarters a posteriori, and I think these people are wondering how it can be that in Portugal, in the United Kingdom, in a lot of countries of the world the opposition is saying that the first thing is to save people's lives, that the first thing is to help the government and then, when this happens, when we have overcome the epidemic, the time will come to clarify the differences, and I am going to state with caution that there is always the answer. I think they're not located, I think they're completely dislocated, I think the epidemic has passed them politically. I believe that they, who are accusing the Government of failing to respond adequately to the epidemic, who are falsely accusing the Government of failing to respond adequately to the epidemic, remain anchored in the world prior to the epidemic, and, simply, what we are seeing is the People's Party and the far right doing exactly what they were doing before the epidemic: Mr Pablo Casado asking for neoliberal measures, massive tax cuts and not being able to respond on television to whether or not to increase the public health budget, and Mr Abascal in those before the epidemic, who called the coup d'état to the democratic constitution of a government in this House. I believe that this is what has happened, Mr President, I believe that those who accuse the government of not being up to it, of not having been able to react have passed the epidemic over them and have stayed in the world that, unfortunately, the epidemic has left behind. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. [[A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum used by Mr. Echenique Robba]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. Briefly, I will refer to four or five notes I took after your speech, because I think it is good to listen and make the replicas according to what people say here, because it gives me the feeling that many groups come here with the replica prepared, which seems to me to be an oxymoron in itself. A preview. I was surprised to hear Mr. Abascal talk about Iranian bots. It's always good to listen to experts, because he knows a lot about Iran, right? More than anything because it received funding from that country in 2014. It's always good to listen to experts. Three issues you have spoken about, Mr President: firstly, the Pacts of the Moncloa; secondly, recentralisation; and thirdly, confinement. First of all, Pacts de la Moncloa. Is the solution a wage cut to curb hypothetical inflation under the unfulfilled promise of social benefits that never arrived? We understand that no, and that is precisely what happened in 1977. Perhaps it would be good to look for another metaphor, more than anything else because you, this government does not have Trudeau, it does not have Merkel, it has Casado and Abascal, and Married certainly, I repeat, at least, would greatly criticize Suárez in this rostrum for bringing the Passionary, and Abascal, so, well, it is Abascal. So, I think we should change the metaphor because, if not, Moncloa's pacts with these people would be the pacts with the devil. Mr President, from the Republican Left we believe that we must look to the future and, above all, not invent a past that did not exist. The rights and freedoms that this country has, which all countries have, were not obtained in an office, they were obtained in the streets thanks to the struggle of many people. Today we again offer an integral pact for the inherited life of those struggles and of those people with a very clear answer: the public, the public and the public, and an idea that I think can help a lot and that threads with that concept: republic, republics. Second idea that you have expressed in your reply: recentralisation. The truth is that it has little debate, I think it is not debatable, it falls by its own weight. If it had not been re-centralized, why could not the Mossos, for example, confine Catalonia when the Generalitat requested it? I'll give you an example, just like that. The third idea - and with this I'm done -, confinement. With all due respect, Mr. President, but how do you eat that people now get infected at home more than on the street? Sure, if they get more infected in their homes than on the street, maybe it wouldn't be good for them to go out on the street. Or are they going to recover sooner in a subway car than in their beds? We, as you know, advocate, ask you, we almost ask you to stop the activity so that you can have some activity tomorrow. There are 15,000 deaths and 150,000 contagions. Don't open your hand, don't open your hand. Please, don't let yourself be pressured more by the employer than by the virus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, on behalf of the Plural Group, I am going to endorse the amendments tabled by Junts per Catalunya, whose spokesman is confined and cannot attend this debate. Mr President, thank you for the answers. I order them in four points: in the first place, with what has to do with the needs of confinement. I think there is consensus that it works, and that it works the harder it has been. There is no consensus - it is something we defend - in which it came late, but it has worked. And we think we have to keep it. It is true that we do not have the same data that you have, that you are a government and that you have experts at your service, but we do not believe - I told you here - that this is a technical issue. We believe that there are different interests in contrast to whether we need to maintain a tougher confinement or to open up economic activity, and in that position what we expect of you is that, as a progressive government that is, you keep the whole criterion of public health above all, not just because of a matter of immediate need, but because, if not, we are going to pay for it all, and in particular the weakest. The first data have already emerged on how, for example, the city of Madrid and the Community of Madrid are affected by the contagions and deaths, and the pandemic is going through neighborhoods. And, if the first economic sectors are opened and people replenish the subway cars and Renfe cars, the contagions and deaths are going to go back to neighborhoods, and we want you to protect the most vulnerable people in the first place. Secondly, as far as social measures are concerned, you, Mr President, must know that at this point the government's famous social shield has holes and that those holes have to be covered. It has holes in tenants that are less protected than its renters: it guarantees first the right of the renter to collect than that of the tenant to receive aid; it has holes in autonomous ones that cannot receive aid; it has holes in people who are trying to ask for the moratorium on mortgages, because it turns out that the banks ask for such a number of papers and procedures that in the end have been hosted around 10%; and it has holes in unemployed or precarious ones that are not receiving any benefits. That is why we were talking to him about a quarantine income or an emergency basic income, which is not the same as a minimum income for the most vulnerable people. Some of the Government's difficulties in moving the minimum income forward may have to do with the fact that control has to be done before, not after. There are many economists, even liberal economists, who are defending to get a quarantine income, an unconditional basic income, whose control is done ex post, then, through taxes, over who has charged how much, in what cases was deserved and who has something to return. That is faster, more effective and, from a progressive point of view, there is not going to be a situation like this, of greater social need and collective understanding of the Spaniards than at present. With regard to the question of Europe, I agree with you that the European Union is playing its part in this. If there is a European Union, that is what it is for. But also the need to address a Marshall plan in the European Union is an opportunity for the European Union to be not only a monetary union, but a fiscal union, a social union and to fulfil some of the historical functions for which we were told that it was in progress. And what we're saying here is that, first of all, you can't leave Italy alone. We believe that in the management of aid in the European Union, the countries of the South always suffer a certain, say, benevolent racism. We are not in a position to ask for help because we have wasted. In fact, we are weaker because we fulfill all the obligations of the troika that made us cut and that today make us weaker. Therefore, we must not accept any conditionality. The European Green Party, in my opinion very rightly, has proposed a billion euros in progress for Eurobonds who share their debt in Europe. I do not know what the position of Germany and Holland will continue to be, but, if they do not move forward, here is our proposal: head up a Mediterranean bloc that starts to pool debt between countries, and we are many more already - read an editorial in Der Spiegel saying the same - those that we are about to move towards a European Union of solidarity. If Germany and the Netherlands continue to block, you will lead a Mediterranean bloc that will pool debt and help us in economic reconstruction. The last question, at full speed, on the subject of the Moncloa Pacts. I understand that these are moments of uncertainty and everyone is looking for references or things that make them feel safe. It's okay to study the past. I have not moved, I have never been even among those who exalted the Transition and seemed to them that everything was fine or among those who seemed to them that everything was fatal. What I have are doubts as to whether that metaphor serves anything. Historian Xavier Domènech wrote yesterday or today an article in which he said that the situation is a little different, first of all because then it was about fighting inflation, containing wages and adjusting to the bulk of the popular classes and today it is about the opposite, starting the engine of the economy, mobilizing more public investment, increasing the disposable income of households and helping a national reconstruction with social justice. Do not be frightened - I finish this, Madam President - by the cries of the right, because they fulfil a status quo function. And it's not what they shout, it's that they scream and exaggerate so much that, almost without moving, it seems that things are revolutionary. And, of course, alongside these gentlemen, one practically stands still and is already a communist social government. The fundamental problem is not that the Spaniards are not worried about whether they see politicians in a family photo; they are worried about whether they have rent, whether they have jobs, whether they have decent public services. And that doesn't require a family photo, there are already social and institutional conditions for a big deal to move forward in national reconstruction with social justice, and for that, if they move forward, they know they're going to find us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u59	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u60	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, my first words in this reply must be to pay tribute to the Spanish Army, the Civil Guard and the National Police, who save lives, although apparently there are territories where they do not want their lives to be saved because they are dressed in uniform, which I, frankly, will never understand. Mr President of the Government, Mr Casado, Mrs Lastra, I have heard the same thing. What are you playing at? Are they still playing 'and you more', 'you worse', 'I do better and you do worse'? Is that what they play? Think of the 15 000 dead, think of the people who are in your confined house, think of the people who are fighting for their lives. It seemed the same to me as always: the old politics. And you said it, Mr President; say it and do it: the new policy. We are on the stage of the new policy to end the virus and to end the socio-economic consequences of the virus. Do you know what this new policy is, which is based on a previous experience that Spain had very satisfactory? It is covenant, unity, consensus and, yes, renunciation; of course, renunciation. Do you know who said that the other day very well on the radio? Felipe González, who, by the way, said you weren't calling him. Perhaps for next week's meeting, this one of the pacts of reconstruction, a call to Felipe González to tell him how the Pacts of the Moncloa were conceived would not be bad either, so that it does not stay in words and move forward. You have heard it: hand stretched out, hand stretched out with loyalty; with loyalty, I assure you, with more loyalty than some of your partners, to whom you in your reply look with arrogance, to Bildu and to the Republican Left of Catalonia, instead of to Citizens, instead of looking towards the center, towards moderation, towards pragmatism, towards solutions. You tell me that ideology must be used. Look, one problem has to be solved among all of us. With ideology? No, with pragmatic solutions, with the solution that touches. If you tell me that you are going to apply the ten commandments of the Holy Mother left to solve all the problems of the crisis, I tell you that when we find unreasonable ideological solutions you will not have our support. I say this to you, as I say, and I am advancing you here right now that in the Royal Decree-Law 9/2020, regarding the prohibition of target dismissal, which is a deception, because the only thing that it does is to increase the twenty-day layoff and put it in thirty-three, we are going to abstain. That's hand out, loyalty, demand and demand for responsibility. Do not rely on ideology. He tells me he doesn't understand small and medium-sized enterprises. Well, look, this is the example, that is, is it the same for a large company that has surplus financial muscle as for a self-employed one that has five employees? You haven't considered it. What is the value of the ICO's line of credit that they have spread by 60-40%, a line of financing, by the way, that they also claimed Citizens from the very beginning? He asks me to convince the Europeans. Look, in that political family, where we are with the Dutch, we are already talking, we are already asking, we are already demanding that the future debt that countries are going to have to incur in order to get out of the socio-economic gap, we are already on it. Come with me, come with us, don't go with the extremists; we're already fighting for that. At our side, or we at your side, we can fight for this together in Europe. I say it clearly: hand stretched out - already listens to me - with loyalty, but with demands, yes, with demands. Do not use the decree-laws to put Mr. Iglesias at the head of the Intelligence Commission. You say you have humility. Tell that to the Minister of the Interior, who says he has nothing to regret; tell Nadia Calviño, who says they have not done anything wrong either. Man, something's been done wrong. We will see tomorrow what you have done wrong, now in the opposition we will see how to bring solutions to you and how to control you in your mistakes in the fight against the virus. Large powers entail great responsibilities: therefore, allow the press to do its work, consult with the political leaders, listen to the social agents, that they do not understand by the Official State Bulletin of the reforms of the Royal Decree-Law 9/2020, as Mr Garamendi has said. Consensus, not unilaterality; legal certainty, not excluding anyone. Tell Mrs Yolanda Díaz not to say that entrepreneurs in Spain are scoundrels and criminals. All united to emerge from this crisis in those socio-economic reconstruction pacts, in those national reconstruction pacts. When you convene that meeting next week, think about it, in the hand held with loyalty, with demand and fulfilling your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u61	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the responsible citizen who spoke of the holy mother left. It's something I've never heard before. I suppose it will be the influences of the day we are, Holy Thursday, and it's much better than the one that some mind prescribes from the right may think that the solution can pass by processing everyone with capirotes to see if the virus is frightened. Mr. Sanchez, I have told you as constructive criticism of every fifteen days. Moreover, I would like to, I suppose, like you and everyone else, that I did not have to come more often to ask for extensions of the state of alarm. The only thing we have done has been to find evidence, that this is going on for a long time and that, as it is going on for a long time, there is a need for caution and little precipitation. What we understand in the statement you bring here is that there is some precipitation when it comes to non-essential workers returning to work, for something as simple as that, if we do not yet know the data - as you have explained to me, and I thank you for the explanation - of what has been a more severe confinement, that is, the one that included non-essential workers as well, why do we raise it without knowing the data? Don't you realize that it may happen that in the next period of confinement the data from which has been a larger confinement gets worse and that, therefore, we have the society more stressed, more convulsive? In any case, there is another issue - and they have also commented on it - that I have not finished understanding. I did not hear it from you for the first time, I heard it from the president of the Basque Nationalist Party on a previous occasion, that the contagion is taking place in the homes. It is that people who are in homes also go out to buy and also go out to work in many cases, because they can be essential workers. If I have learned something in the Health Commission - and I am not an epidemiologist or an epidemiologist - it is that there is a vector of contagion and risk for the whole of society very important, which is that of asymptomatics, and asymptomatics can be among the essential and non-essential workers; then they can continue to contagion to more people, and if they can continue to contagion to more people, they will do so not only in their own home, but also in their workplaces. I did not want to be critical, nor did I want to be critical now, about the situation of the workplaces today, which we have now found, when the coronavirus has arrived, but you will know, as I know and as anyone can know, that the situation of many workplaces is far from being the one necessary to address the current situation. We could talk about the distance between each worker, we could talk about the shifts, the wardrobes, the conditions and the means with which they currently count, because there are tens of thousands of people who go out daily in the networks complaining about very basic things, like that they have to provide themselves with masks, and they are, for example, supermarket workers, or employees who point out that they have to work side by side, that they then have to change into crowded lockers and that they also work without PPE. Then the risk is there and that's what I intended to move. I agree that the pandemic is not going to be defeated by confinement alone. Moreover, I believe that confinement is a kind of punishment that has touched us all and all, and serves the expression. No one likes it, no one is going to suggest that we should continue with the confinement for pure vice or masochism; rather, on the contrary, we wish we could get rid of it as soon as possible. The problem is that confinement is being used because we do not yet have sufficient health and social resources to deal with it as we would like. So far, I think we all agree. But if that's the case, we'll have to play with containment so that the contagion doesn't expand, so that the contagion doesn't get bigger and bigger. And I was asking you a question - we also raised it in the amendment by Euskal Herria Bildu - which has to do with the tax inspection. I am basically talking about what is being done so that in companies, in workplaces, health recommendations can be complied with to avoid contagion. That is the great drama, that the tax inspection is very impoverished in resources. If the resources that existed before were very limited - because they were, there is nothing more to talk to the Labour and Social Security inspectors -, now they have to do a triple task, not to say quadruple, and go everywhere to see if it is fulfilled, because it is not being fulfilled today, and I don't think it is giving it any first place. There is another question, and it is that the virus does not affect us all equally, the virus does not affect us all equally. Those with worse working conditions are more likely to suffer from the virus than others. People's applause cheers and are very well and are sure to be grateful, but they don't feed. Workers need protection, dignity and resources. And I am glad that there is a good coordination with Euskadi, I think it is good, but then clarify to some members of the Basque Government that you do not wear masks because you are infected, because that has come to be heard in the mouth of a counselor, and also make clear to them that the virus is not infected from balcony to balcony, because there is also someone else who has said that it does not come out on the balcony because of the fact that it is engineered the same thing he believes that it can be infected from balcony to balcony. I believe that in our work it is, at least, not to say things that are far from reality. Mrs Lastra has thanked and agreed that unity and uniformity should not be the same. I'm glad it was that way. There are those who ask us for unity, and the only thing we are going to offer - and we are willing to do so in a disinterested and total way - is solidarity, because solidarity is horizontal and we practice it by people and peoples. Class solidarity at this historic crossroads and solidarity between free peoples, that is what we can give.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u64	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is that I was surprised that Mr Abascal referred to my speech, because I do not think I have ever named him. I did not name Mr Abascal, and VOX only in passing, mainly because I believe that VOX is a useless political group for the Spaniards in a situation as difficult as the current one. He has not made any proposals or done absolutely nothing; well, the proposals he has made - I'm sorry, yes he has - are unconstitutional. Therefore, being a useless political group, I will not refer to it. Mr. Casado, before you deny to the President of the Government that you have a good time with the data. The Constitution does not limit the extension to fifteen days. Fifteen is the initial deadline without Congress authorization. Extensions may be longer, but the President of the Government wants to come every fifteen days just to report to the Congress of Deputies, as he said. But I am much more surprised by the pain of your intervention towards me and the President of the Government, because there is a very chaste saying that whoever has the long tongue that has the hard back, and fifteen days ago I told him that this was not the time or the debate to throw things at our heads, to make party politics, that what was needed is unity, and you have been throwing up lies and bubbles on the media and on social networks for fifteen days. [[applause]] You complain about the harshness of my words, when the problem lies in the deep disloyalty of your facts, Mr. Married, in your false accusations. And this is hard, so hard, that the Spanish people, who are going through the worst crisis, the worst crisis in their recent history, will not forgive you, and that too will be hard for you, Mr. Married, will be very hard. Look, don't make us an excuse, don't make this debate an excuse for something you've already decided on for days, because you've been saying in the media for days that the pacts that the President of the Government is offering you are a decoy, and you're therefore not going to accept them. And finally, no one is shutting this parliamentary group down. The Socialists have already tried to silence us for a long time, for forty years, and they have not succeeded; you are not going to do so, Mr Casado. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Lastra. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. If it seems to you, I am speaking from here, first of all, to thank the workers of the Congress of Deputies for holding this plenary session. Secondly, also to thank the House as a whole for the tone of the debate. I believe that, regardless of whether there have actually been times when the intensity of the same has probably made us say things that we might have said otherwise, what is clear is that the constructive tone of most political forces is what must remain in the retina of Spanish public opinion. Thirdly, I would like to thank the parliamentary groups which are going to support the extension of the state of alarm for their affirmative vote, and those parliamentary groups which are either going to abstain or are going to vote against, logically transferring the spirit of unity, loyalty, cooperation, in agreement with the whole Government of Spain and in particular with me. To those who are not going to vote in favour, I want to say that I do not see them as enemies, that we have very clear who our enemy is, what our goal is, which is to save lives, and that, in fact, very soon Spanish citizenship can recover a new daily life, a new normality. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to convey to you, regardless of the name we can or want to give you, what is clear is that Spanish society is acting in a united manner and requires its political forces and its representatives in the Congress of Deputies to act in a united manner. I think it is more than obvious that we will have to work together in what is the transition to that new normality that we will have to recover, we hope sooner than later; and when I speak of unity I am not only referring to the unity of the Government of Spain with the social agents, fostering that social dialogue that we are already doing from different ministries, not only with the delegated authorities as a result of the state of alarm but also with the Minister of Labour; also with that unity with the public administrations, we are talking with all of them, with the autonomous governments, also with the municipal governments. I said before, for example, that one of the measures that we are going to put in place is the impetus for the creation of 200 000 jobs linked to the countryside and the crops, the campaigns that are to come, which we will logically do at the hands of the municipalities, especially the smaller ones. And we also need, indeed, that unity around the reconstruction and relaunch of the Spanish economy and social policy from the moment we pass this pandemic. We will have to do this at European level, we will have to do this also at national level, and in that sense what I do is reach out and ask for the same thing that I can offer, which is unity and loyalty; I offer that unity and loyalty to all the parliamentary forces. Let us call on those pacts, on those agreements as we wish, I believe that they must obviously be linked to the economic and social reconstruction of our country, which will logically emerge damaged by this stoppage of activity, the result of the very extraordinary and exceptional measures that we are taking in the field of the defence of life and public health, and for this I formally call on all those political forces who want to start this work over the next week to achieve this great agreement of the reconstruction of our country in the economic and social field. Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. We shall proceed to the votes. We'll vote in two minutes. [[Pause]] All right, I think we are in a position to start the vote. Acts in relation to the states of alarm, exception and site. Request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by Royal Decree 476/2020 of 27 March. Voting on the proposals put forward by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 44 plus 307 telematics votes, 351; in favour, 17 plus 123 telematics votes, 140; against, 26 plus 183 telematics votes, 209; abstentions, 1 plus 1 telematics vote, 2. 1
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u68	They're rejected. Voting on the proposals submitted by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 44 plus 307 telematics votes, 351; in favour, 7 plus 27 telematics votes, 34; against, 37 plus 280 telematics votes, 317. 2
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u69	They're rejected. Vote on the proposals submitted by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 43 plus 307 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 20 plus 132 telematics votes, 152; against, 22 plus 174 telematics votes, 196; abstentions, 1 plus 1 telematics vote, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u70	They're rejected. Voting on the proposals put forward by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 43 plus 307 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 5 plus 26 telematics votes, 31; against, 37 plus 279 telematics votes, 316; abstentions, 1 plus 2 telematics votes, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u71	They're rejected. 1 An error has been detected in this vote. The correct result is as follows: votes cast, 43 plus 307 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 17 plus 123 telematics votes, 140; against, 25 plus 183 telematics votes, 208; abstentions, 1 plus 1 telematics vote, 2. See President's speech at the end of the vote on the proposals put forward by the parliamentary groups [[page 68]] 2 A mistake has been detected in this vote. The correct result is as follows: votes cast, 43 plus 307 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 7 plus 27 telematics votes, 34; against, 36 plus 280 telematics votes, 316. See President's speech at the end of the vote on the proposals put forward by the parliamentary groups Voting on the proposals put forward by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. [[page 68]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 43 plus 306 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 6 plus 25 telematics votes, 31; against, 36 plus 278 telematics votes, 314; abstentions, 1 plus 3 telematics votes, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u72	They're rejected. Voting on the proposals put forward by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Borrás, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 43 plus 306 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 4 plus 26 telematics votes, 30; against, 37 plus 279 telematics votes, 316; abstentions, 2 plus 1 telematics vote, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u73	They're rejected. Voting on the proposals submitted by the Republican Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 43 plus 306 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 6 plus 26 telematics votes, 32; against, 37 plus 280 telematics votes, 317.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u74	They're rejected. Voting on the proposals submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm under the terms of the agreement on its admission to procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 43 plus 303 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 6 plus 46 telematics votes, 52; against, 25 plus 180 telematics votes, 205; abstentions, 12 plus 77 telematics votes, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u75	They're rejected. I should like to inform you that the first two votes have been voted in person by a Member who had already done so telematically. The error will be corrected and that vote will not be counted. The error has already been corrected in the following ones. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that from 3.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m., so for two hours the authorization of the extension of the state of alarm, which will be put to the vote in its own terms, can be voted on by telematic means. The face-to-face vote on this item, as we have already announced on the Board of Spokesmen, will take place together with the rest of the votes at the end of all the items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u76	We continue with the agenda. Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 11/2020 of 31 March, which provides for the adoption of additional urgent measures in the social and economic fields to deal with COVID-19. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u77	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I would like to convey from here all my affection and solidarity to the victims of this epidemic, to their families and to their friends. I would also like to convey my gratitude and encouragement to all the people who are allowing us to move forward, making it possible, within the exceptionality in which we find ourselves, to maintain a life as normal as possible in the circumstances. I turn again to the House, as almost two weeks ago, to call for the support of the groups for a new royal decree-law adopted by the Government to implement measures in the social and economic field with which to deal with the impact of the crisis caused by COVID19. This is a real decree-law that comes to complete the safety net that we have been knitting from the very beginning to ensure the protection of citizens, particularly the most vulnerable, and to support as much as possible the business productive fabric and employment while this hibernation phase lasts. The objective, as you all know, is to ensure that our economy and our society remain in the best conditions possible during this exceptional time, so that when we finally enter the phase of descalation of the country's containment and recovery measures we have a good basis on which to reactivate ourselves. To this end, it is essential to complete the protection of our citizens, businesses and workers, to resolve some of the issues identified for the implementation and improvement of the implementation of the measures previously adopted and also to ensure the most efficient functioning of the public administration. [[The lady]] As I explained when I defended the previous package of economic and social measures in this House, since the COVID began to expand around the world and became a pandemic, the Government has been taking swift, effective measures, guided by the recommendations of health experts and aligned with what countries in our environment are doing. The measures have sought, first and foremost, to contain the health crisis, to preserve the lives of our compatriots and to avoid the collapse of our National Health System, which is demonstrating a great strength and a great quality and capacity. It is clear that the flood of income in hospital emergencies concentrated in just a few weeks has been a major challenge for the whole system, so it has been essential to strengthen it with more human and technical means, something in which we have made our commitment a priority. We have also acted at the forefront of research, facilitating and enhancing investments in the search for treatments and vaccines for this disease, because this is - we all know - the only way to solve the situation effectively and lastingly in the medium term. A fundamental part of health action has also been the measures of social containment and distancing supported by the declaration of the state of alarm and which are essential to curb the curve of contagion and thus relieve the pressure on our health system. However, it is clear that these containment measures also have a cost, an economic and social impact, especially since the widespread ban on movements, except for essential workers, which started a little over a week ago and which aims to slow down the contagion by lowering mobility. It is the most important indicator for this evolution of contagion, but I insist on this concept: it is about reducing mobility and not paralysing economic activity. In fact, hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens continue to work not only in essential services but also in their homes, making a great effort to continue contributing to overcoming this crisis. If economic shock first came through the global value chains by reducing Chinese workforces and production capacity, the globalization of the epidemic accentuated the difficulties in supply chains and affected export demand, particularly in the field of tourism. The adoption of decisive and firm containment measures in Spain and the majority of European countries has ended up generalising the disruption of economic activity; that is, the health crisis and containment measures are already having a direct impact on the economy and society, on the productive chains and on the day-to-day lives of citizens. And as with the expansion of the virus itself, the impact of containment measures on the economy is also exponential, not linear, so that the longer they remain in force, the greater the economic and social impact. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to tackle the health crisis as soon as possible and to avoid a collapse of the health system, as this is the only way to ensure an early recovery with the least possible economic and social damage. In other words - and I often say this - there is no dichotomy between protecting health and protecting the economy, they are both sides of the same coin, because we will not achieve it without the other. This explains and justifies the roundness of the measures we have taken from the very beginning, the decision to limit the mobility of workers in our country to the maximum in order to respond to the health need, to advance the end of the exceptional situation and to avoid entering a longer stationary situation in which we cannot deal decisively with economic recovery and have more structural damage to our productive fabric and employment. And in parallel with these health measures, this explains the roundness, the decision with which we have also acted in the economic sphere. It is essential to make it easier for businesses and workers to hibernate the activity, which is why the retrievable paid leave that the Minister of Labour is going to defend in a moment and the flexibility that we have granted to some sectors to ensure that they can reactivate once we leave this exceptional situation behind. In this context, in the scene of the packages of actions in the face of this crisis that we have been adopting for weeks and that have been validated by this House, we now add the real decree-law that we bring here today, which, as I told you before, completes the security network that we have been weaving among all of us in the face of the economic and social consequences of the crisis. The priority objectives of this royal decree-law remain the same as the last time I was here on the podium: to strengthen the struggle in the health field, to support citizens, the self-employed, the workers, especially the most vulnerable, and to facilitate the maintenance of the productive fabric in order to avoid a more lasting impact on economic activity and employment. That is why, since the Third Vice-President of the Government and Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, we have coordinated the action of up to fourteen ministries to illuminate this rule, which includes more than fifty initiatives, including the extension of the previous exceptional measures until one month after the end of the declaration of state of alarm. But in addition to this extension we abound on several fronts in response to requests from the social partners. We are also trying to introduce technical improvements to ensure the effectiveness of the measures and at other times what we do is to try to respond to requests from collectives that had not been covered by the actual previous decree-laws. As I told them, supporting vulnerable workers, families and groups to alleviate their financial situation and their fixed costs and ultimately to be able to cover this exceptional situation as best as possible is a priority for the Government. That is why a first set of measures is aimed at the most vulnerable families and groups. First, its suspending evictions due to non-payment of rent in the usual housing in vulnerable groups without housing alternative for a maximum period of six months. In addition, the autonomous renewal of rental contracts that expire within two months of the end of the state of alarm for a period of also six months is agreed and the terms and conditions that existed are maintained in force. This royal decree-law also approves a moratorium on the payment of rent by maintaining an adequate balance between the interests of owners and tenants. For this we distinguish between public owners and large housing owners and, on the other hand, small owners, so that in the case of public owners and large tenants, those who have more than ten urban buildings or more than 1500 square meters built, will have to apply a 50% reduction in rent to the tenant or a moratorium of up to four months in the payment of rent to vulnerable tenants. Once this situation has been overcome, tenants will return unpaid contributions over a period of at least three years without interest or penalties. On the other hand, where the lessor is not a large estate holder, which happens in 85% of the cases, tenants may request a postponement in the payment of their rent. In the event that an agreement is not reached with the lessor, a new programme of transitional zero-cost financing aid is available for these households in difficulty, which will be granted by banks with the approval of the State through the Official Credit Institute. These are final loans for the payment of rent, for up to six months, to be returned within a period of up to ten years. In this way, we prevent the problems of vulnerable tenants from being transferred to small owners, whose income can depend precisely on the income of their properties. In addition, a new rental aid programme with EUR 700 million is being launched. The standard also incorporates a specific programme for victims of gender-based violence, homeless persons and other particularly vulnerable persons. The mortgage moratorium is extended until three months, in terms we had already approved a few weeks ago, but extending the protected collective. This allows self-employed and small-scale owners to benefit from the moratorium, not for their usual housing, as set out in the previous Royal Decree-Law, but also for the loan that weighs on their commercial premises, and we clarify how to apply this measure so that the suspended quotas are not liquidated after the expiry of the period of the moratorium but that all future payments are postponed for an equivalent period. We also include the costs associated with supplies for the purpose of identifying vulnerable families and facilitate the accreditation of this vulnerability situation through the submission of a responsible declaration. Local corporations are also empowered to use the surplus from previous exercises to take measures to support vulnerable housing groups. On the other hand, to ensure that citizens are not excluded from the financial system, the moratorium on payments is extended to non-mortgage loans and loans, including consumer credits in particular. The protection of the most vulnerable citizens in relation to their energy supplies is extended by extending the electric social bond to new collectives, such as self-employed ones who have ceased their activity or who have seen their income reduced by 75%, and it is permitted to update the regulated prices of the butane candy and the Last resort price of natural gas, which were frozen, as you will all remember, by a previous royal decree-law. The review is allowed provided it is low and benefits consumers. It is also prohibited to cut energy or water supplies in the usual housing for any reason other than security of supply. This extends the scope from which we had previously established that it was only for vulnerable groups. Also with a view to alleviating the lack of liquidity in households, the cases in which pension funds can be rescued by persons who are receiving unemployment benefit as a result of temporary employment regulations, employers in an establishment whose opening has been suspended by the declaration of the state of alarm or self-employed persons who have ceased their activity as a result of COVID-19 are extended. Contracts for the sale of goods and the provision of services, whether or not on a successive basis, the execution of which has become impossible, allowing consumers and users to settle them within 14 days, also by paralysing the collection of new fees until the services are resumed and, in the case of services involving several suppliers, such as, for example, combined travel, a refund or a voucher may be chosen between a refund or a voucher to be used within one year of the end of the state of alarm. With regard to the ban on telecommunications portability that we decree a few weeks ago, the rule is set out to establish that it only affects the operations in which the physical presence of operators or the user is necessary to focus the restriction on those areas that have to do with mobility and, therefore, with the infection of COVID. For workers receiving care allowance for minors affected by cancer or other serious diseases, it is decreed that during the state of alarm their allowance will not be affected by temporary employment regulations. And finally, in order to avoid the intensification of online gambling consumption and to protect, above all, minors and people with gambling disorders in this exceptional situation of confinement in their homes, the advertising of operators in this sector is limited. In the spirit that has guided us at all times not to leave anyone behind, measures are taken to care for the collective of household employees, who are in a situation of great vulnerability due to the particular characteristics of their work or their contribution scheme and the impact of the measures taken to contain the demand for their services. And for them a new temporary special allowance is created, which will cover cases of lack of activity, reduction of hours worked or termination of the contract. The same applies to temporary workers whose contracts are extinguished during these weeks and who are not entitled to the benefit. For them a new subsidy is created, so that they do not run out of income while this situation continues and until they can start looking for a new job. As you can see, the cluster of measures directed directly at citizens and, in particular, at the most vulnerable is the main body of this royal decree-law. A second package of measures is targeted at businesses and the self-employed, a group which is also a priority for all of us and which have been targeted at a large number of measures in the various packages that we have adopted in recent weeks, including, as you know, the exceptional benefit for cessation of activity or reduction of income, the postponement of tax payments, liquidity support lines, etc. Now, along with some of the initiatives that I have already mentioned that can already benefit, such as the mortgage moratorium, the electric social bond, it is also enabled by this royal decree-law to Social Security to grant a six-month moratorium on the payment of social contributions, both to businesses and self-employed; it is allowed to self-employed enterprises and workers to postpone the payment of debts to be paid between April and June that they have with Social Security, with a reduction in the required interest rate; and it is also given to self-employed persons a interest-free moratorium on the payment of contributions for the days actually worked in March. Repayment obligations for loans granted by autonomous communities and local authorities to entrepreneurs and self-employed persons are also extraordinarily deferred. Fifthly, the extraordinary cessation benefit is adapted to cover the situation of certain sectors which have a high degree of seasonality, such as agriculture, culture, or those linked to events such as Holy Week or others; among them, as an anecdote, I would like to share with you that we have received this request in particular from the cut flower sector, which is clearly very affected by the exceptional situation and by the cancellation of the ceremonies that usually take place at this time of year. Specific treatment is also given, in relation to the maintenance of employment, to sectors with enormous labour volatility or in which the volume of workers can depend substantially on a given benefit or event, such as the performing arts, music, cinema or audiovisual sector, to adequately collect the specificities they may have. Certain measures are also included to make contracts and supplies more flexible for self-employed persons and businesses, both electricity and natural gas, and are even allowed to suspend payment of their invoices, all of which are designed to alleviate and improve the financial situation of these groups. On the other hand, a third block of this royal decree-law is aimed at supporting economic activity and industry, particularly by ensuring the liquidity of our productive fabric during this exceptional period. As you all know, the first step along this path has already been taken with measures such as guarantees from the Official Credit Institute, up to EUR 100 billion to cover circulation, pay invoices or meet other concepts of self-employed persons and companies; guarantees that have begun to be granted this Monday, following the signing of the relevant agreements with financial institutions, and that will cover operations granted since 18 March with a retroactive application so that there is no gap or gap in the liquidity guarantee. The first tranche activated, of EUR 20 billion, has been set aside at 50% to guarantee loans to self-employed and SMEs, and both the Government and the Bank of Spain are very vigilant to ensure that the conditions laid down are met, in particular that the benefit derived from the public guarantee is transferred to customers in the form of lower interest, longer term or longer period of deficiency, that the approval of these loans is not conditional on the procurement of any other service or product, and that all customers' lines of circulation are kept open until 30 September. I can tell you today that, according to the latest data this morning, some 33 000 operations have been incorporated into the ICO platform, worth more than EUR 28 billion in guarantees, and the objective of prioritising the situation of self-employed people and SMEs is also being met. For this group, operations totalling almost EUR 27 billion have already been approved. In parallel with the absorption of this first section of the collateral line, we are preparing the mobilization of the second section, reserved entirely for autonomous and SMEs, to ensure that liquidity continues to flow adequately towards the productive tissue. As announced this morning by the President of the Government in the rostrum, tomorrow we will approve the launch of this second tranche of the endorsement line. In addition to this tremendously important measure from the quantitative point of view of the collateral line, with this royal decree-law that we bring to validation today we take a step further by activating new measures that will ease the potential liquidity tensions of companies in our country. Among other things, the system of guarantees and advances is amended to speed up and facilitate the management of all aid from the General Secretariat of Industry and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises to facilitate refinancing. The provision of the Technical Provision Fund of the Spanish Company for Reaffirmation, Cersa, is also increased by EUR 60 million to provide an extraordinary coverage of the credit risk in financing operations, so that it can assume about EUR 1 billion of risk that will enable 2000 million to be mobilised, thus benefiting some 20 000 SMEs and self-employed people. The amount paid by companies at events organised by ICEX that have been cancelled shall be refunded and additional aid shall be granted for incurred expenses not recoverable at other international events. The payment of interest and repayments of loans granted by the Secretariat of State for Tourism under the various Entrepreneurship programmes is suspended for one year, in order to ensure the liquidity and viability of companies in one of the most hit sectors, such as tourism. The CDTI is included among the bodies that can speed up aid and contributions to the business sector to promote innovation in the fight against the pandemic. The viable competing companies are also allowed to accept ERTE so that they do not end up in liquidation because of the exceptional situation generated by COVID, provided that they subscribe to the commitment to maintain employment for six months after the end of the state of alarm. In addition, the standard includes other more technical cutting measures, e.g. an exceptional period to allow the marketing of winter gasoline. The extension of permits for access and connection to electricity networks to give legal certainty to electricity generation projects, on which substantial investments are required to meet our renewable penetration targets, which will be reactivated as soon as we put an end to this exceptional state of affairs. An exemption for electricity and natural gas traders to liquidate VAT, excise duty on electricity and excise duty on hydrocarbons, as well as to pay tolls on access to transport and distribution networks associated with users who suspend their payments, or an exceptional and transitional temporary compensation for certain compulsory population coverage costs of the State-wide digital terrestrial television service so that companies can continue to provide that essential service. There is also another set of technical improvements to solve problems and ensure the proper and effective functioning of public administrations. For example, public sector accountability periods are allowed to be suspended, donations are facilitated, the possibility of postponing tax debts to the customs area for six months without interest being accrued for the first three months. The time limits for different administrative procedures of companies are further relaxed. The Government is entrusted with the development of a plan to strengthen the social and administrative courts, as well as the commercial courts, when the state of alarm is lifted to deal with the foreseeable increase in activity that they will have in the coming weeks. Special rules are laid down for the duration of certain contracts of teaching and research staff concluded by universities to facilitate their access to new contracts or calls. Specific provisions are applied for contracts of employment signed in the field of research and staff employed in the National Health System, including the compatibility of the retirement pension with the appointment as statutory staff of health professionals so that they can be reinstated in the active service at this exceptional time, and the voluntary collaboration of all public employees on the health front is facilitated. The resources for vocational training are allowed to be applied to the financing of any of the benefits and actions of the unemployment protection system. Banking foundations are granted an extension of up to two years within the period of divestment and disposal in exchange for providing a reserve fund, and in terms of investment the National Securities Market Commission is empowered to modify the requirements applicable to companies managing collective investment institutions. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it is a tremendously complex and comprehensive package of measures that also cover a wide range of specific situations of people, small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employed, in order to complete this safety net for society as a whole. This package represents a very important strengthening of the financial capacity of businesses, the self-employed and our families, which is in addition to the more than EUR 100 billion of mobilization of additional public expenditure, liquidity and guarantees deriving from the real decree-laws already approved earlier. It is clear that we are making a very important effort as a society, and I believe that it is also clear that the individual effort of countries will not be enough to overcome this situation. This is a crisis that transcends national borders, affects all countries in one way or another and requires a response at international level and specifically from the European Union. There is a need for greater coordination and for the tools to enable us to finance recovery jointly, in a European way, in order for the Union to honour its name. As you know, the Spanish Government is very attentive to the evolution of events; we are listening to the requests coming from the various groups, appreciating closely and exchanging views with the social actors and the rest of the political formations, and taking decisive steps to meet the different needs, with a strong and irrevocable commitment not to leave anyone behind and with the view set to overcome the health emergency as effectively as possible, so that we can enter as soon as possible into the new phase of descalation and transition towards the recovery that you have been talking about this morning in this Congress of Deputies. And, in this regard, on the European issue - and with this I conclude the presentation - I think it is important to share with you the positive assessment of the firmness with which the European Central Bank has taken decisions in recent weeks; also our positive assessment of other movements, such as the European Commission's proposal to create an unemployment reinsurance system - an issue that the Spanish Government has been advocating since the first day - and also the flexibility of the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. But positive measures are not enough; a more determined, more European common response is needed, and to achieve this is what we have been working on since the first day. Today, as you know, I will be participating in a new meeting of the Eurogroup, at which I hope we will adopt a safety net for businesses, states and workers throughout the Union; a network of approximately EUR 500 billion in loans through institutions such as the European Investment Bank, the European Stability Mechanism or the Community budget itself. This short-term liquidity package would be a positive first step in articulating a joint response. From our point of view it is a positive first step, but it is not enough. We need to work in parallel with a medium-term perspective to create a debt-sharing mechanism. The exit from this crisis cannot assume that each country will assume independently, in isolation, the fiscal burden that will arise both from the measures we are taking at this time to respond to the health, economic and social crisis and from the investment plan that will be indispensable to be able to address and boost economic recovery when we move to the next stages. I therefore conclude with this idea. No one can escape that we will still have to face difficult weeks of great uncertainty, which will require patience in order not to lose control of the situation and continue to keep the virus at bay, but I am convinced that Spanish society will continue to act with exemplaryness, temperance and solidarity, as it has been doing since the beginning of this crisis. I have heard many times that Spain is a great country with a lot of assets and, among them, I always praise the creativity, solidarity, adaptability and resilience of our people. And I think this crisis is showing us all that we have a lot of reason to be proud of our country; first of all, for the citizens, who are individually and selflessly helping those who need it most every day, giving encouragement from the balconies and windows, thanking openly and sincerely for the effort of all those who do not let the country stop; but we also need to be proud of the workers who in complicated circumstances come to their jobs to ensure our health, continue to produce our food and allow us to put food on the table, keep our cities clean, preserve our security, operate critical infrastructures, disinfect common living spaces and allow us to hold this debate today. And here I would also like to include, let me say, the public workers, who make the administration continue to function at such necessary times, as well as all those who are developing their activity from home. The Minister of Labour, who is already here with us, knows well and lives every day the intense work that officials are having to do in those ministries that have to implement the economic and social cutting measures that we propose and that you have been validating in this Parliament. And this, supporting citizens, workers, businesses, this is what we do with this royal decree-law and with the set of measures that we have adopted so far, we build a safety net that protects our economy, that protects our society in this transitional and exceptional phase and that allows us to approach these weeks, strengthen our resilience, in the hope that we will soon be discussing the plans for reactivation and momentum for our country here. But in order for that moment to arrive as soon as possible, we have to row together in the same direction thinking of those who need us most, doing the same thing as the Spanish citizens because I think we are all clear that we will only get out of this crisis quickly if we come out together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u78	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. At the time of fixing positions, Mr Gimeno has the floor first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u79	Good afternoon. As it cannot be otherwise, we join the generic goals facing the Government these days: to stop the coronavirus, to protect the economy and businesses, as well as to care for the work, resources and living conditions of citizens. We invite from our modesty all the forces of the House to join this country effort that history has put before us; for that responsibility, for the commitment to the citizenry and to the country, we will support the validation of the royal decree-law. But in the same way, we propose that in the present and other future regulatory developments relating to economic or social measures a principle of positive discrimination towards emptied Spain be used, since in the towns and cities of these provinces both economic activity and entrepreneurship and financial availability are always more difficult now and in any situation. We have welcomed the fact that the suggestions made since Teruel Existe concerning the distribution of ICO's guarantees are being taken into account, so that they can reach small businesses in each territory and be distributed among entrepreneurs and self-employed people, as otherwise it would have been more difficult. Allow me, within the many aspects covered by the royal decree, to pay particular attention to four or five of them. For example, in the support measures for self-employed people, in article 34 - referring to the six-month moratorium - we believe that special account should be taken of the application in municipalities of less than 5000 inhabitants, as already done in article 31.3 of Law 20/2007, of the Statute of Self-employment, which is not mentioned. Also with regard to the self-employed, we believe that it would be very effective to extend the effect of the mortgage debt moratorium not only to those who have included in an ERTE or have lost their jobs, but also to those entrepreneurs who are trying to maintain the workforce, so that we reward that we do not immediately resort to an ERTE, that is to say that it has a reward to maintain the workforce. For us this is a crisis fundamentally of stewardship. That is why we do not understand that the agreement which attempts to curb commercial speculation with health equipment has not yet been adopted. We are not in a free market situation, we are in a situation of alarm and, if it cannot be done, that happens here, let us move towards self-sufficiency. Another aspect is training for employment. We understand that the capture of training resources for employment must somehow be replenished because in some sectors, such as ours, such training for employment is essential for the process of productive conversion that is being carried out by the closure of the thermal power plant in Andorra or by the very stoppage that this crisis is going to produce. Finally, an illuminating and paradigmatic example of what it is like to legislate for big cities or to legislate for small cities and towns. It is a social cry that is not allowed in most sites to access domestic gardens in the localities. They are gardens of rural Spain that form part of the economy of families, are a support to consumption, a strategy of sustainability and security for the individual, that avoids the displacement to the supermarket and sometimes to other municipalities. That is why we call for the individual movement of gardens throughout the country to be permitted to an additional extent. And please remember that there is another Spain, not just that of the great city; remember both now and after, and let's walk towards a better country with balance and territorial sustainability. We, if you'll allow us, will help. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was asking in your reply this morning the President of the Government whether, apart from criticising, we were able to hold our shoulders. I understand you don't like criticism, but I'll tell you that the Navarro People's Union has always tied its shoulder. He did so when everyone left the Socialist Government behind years ago and we supported him, there we were, UPN, and we were very criticized at that time, but we understood that for the sake of Spain we had to support that and we supported it; then it happened with a People's Party Government, which also everyone left behind and the Union of the Navarro People once again supported for loyalty to Spain; and we continue to support the Government, we support it in the previous decrees and we continue to support it because, although many things are critical and there are others that are not done, we see that we try to do things that are good for the whole of Spain, and we support them even if they do not deserve it, even if they do not hold hands, even if they are unable to talk to others, but we understand that we have to tie the shoulder. This morning there was also talk of the famous state covenants. We'll obviously always be there. What happens is that it's true that they have a limitation. The limitation logically, from our point of view, is the Spanish Constitution and, as far as we are concerned, as a political formation, the Foral Regime of Navarre. It is true that with these conditions, with the Spanish Constitution and with the Navarren Foral Regime, everyone cannot, because it must be recognized that all those who supported the Government were contrary to the Constitution itself and contrary to the Navarren Foral Regime itself. Therefore, we will be in those agreements that are within the constitutional framework and within the framework of respect for the improvement of the Navarra Foral Regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u82	Thank you very much, Mr García Adanero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. I have the floor for the same group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u83	Thank you. Good afternoon. The President of the Government said this morning when he responded to the intervention, which the Government defends and is committed to defending the common good, public health and the state of well-being. In order to defend the state of well-being, the common good and public health, apart from concrete measures in relation to these specific issues, it is necessary to distribute wealth because resources are not unlimited. So let us analyse specifically the decree that you bring us today not only in terms of dialectics with the right, but in concrete terms what economic measures you propose to survive the crisis. Firstly, you allow SMEs and the self-employed to suspend quotas during the state of alarm, but at the same time commit themselves in the next budgets to compensate for the losses these companies have. Madam Vice-President, Endesa, Iberdrola, Spanish Electricity Network, Naturgy and Enagas have distributed dividends of some €55 billion last month. The other day, an economic digital newspaper estimated that these companies would have lost about EUR 4 million a month, but that the government would, on the other hand, be paying them more than EUR 30 million a month. Secondly, you announce the suspension of the payment of supplies. We're glad. Still, in one of the poorest neighborhoods in our country, the Font de la Pólvora, in Girona, there are systematic blackouts due to non-payment. We understand that survival at COVID-19 does go through neighborhoods, even if you say no. They also announce a transfer of EUR 15 million to cable television to maintain profit levels, and measures to sustain the tourism industry, the monoculture economy, of course, without questioning the working conditions, and if not, to be explained later by the minister. They also announce a moratorium on rents for vulnerable families. They take out public guarantees so that these families can ask for bank loans to pay the rents and then, to end it, they take out public aid so that families can ask to pay the bank loans, but no trace of the bank returning the ransom money. There are two options: either you are naive and therefore you maintain the rhetoric of progress and of the common good, or you are taking us by the wayside. If you transfer public money to hydroelectric plants, banks, the tourism industry and private televisions, but you can't condone the share of all self-employed people and, besides, you don't tax big fortunes or move the capital of big income, but you do draw a public account so that people can make donations to collectively survive the COVID-19, we think, with humility, that we are being fooled. The question is: do you not intend to distribute wealth? The vanguard has just advanced that you will draw a vital minimum income. We will see in what terms it is concrete because, for the time being, the news speaks of three months. Aren't you going to get the bank to return the money? Aren't we going to have a big fortune tax? Because defending the state of well-being right now passes by sharing wealth. I said earlier, you are on the right of European neoliberal orthodoxy. And we still need to see what kind of agreement you have in Europe. Today the Bank of England announced that it would issue money without credit. Why are you not going to defend that the European Central Bank issues money without credit? Why do you continue with measures such as Eurobonds or Coronabonds, which keep us in the rhetoric and in the debt chain? There has been talk of war again, of fighting against the virus; every morning its military comes out to talk of war and of fighting against the virus. Do you know what the only war in the Spanish state is? The capital against life. And if you continue to be on the side of capital - and from our perspective this decree proves this - we commit ourselves to building a national and political alternative despite you and your State, because you leave us no more way out than to open a cycle of struggles, labor strikes and tenant strikes, because it is the only way to save the lives of our communities. From here we commit ourselves to burying the cry and turning anger and misery into rebellion, protest and hope.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u84	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u85	Madam Minister, this morning we attended a debate in which we were able to see the right to show your concern about the economic stoppage, your concern about the measures that the Government had taken in connection with the halting of activities of the non-essential company. And it seems that that was only the economy; it seems that the economy was only the big companies, only the IBEX, only the capacity of pressure and impact that the entrepreneurs of this country have - whether they donate or not - to determine the course of our lives and yet the economy is much more. We too want to protect the economy and that is done in no other way but by protecting the workers, because for us the economy is also the traders who have been working for a month without working with a zero profit. The economy is also the hotel industry, which has been unable to charge anything for more than a month. Small and medium-sized enterprises, of which the big employers do not remember, are. It is the cooperative fabric, so important in Euskal Herria and surely in some other places, that it is also suffering this crisis in a brutal way. It is the self-employed, who are greatly affected by this situation. That's all economics, too. But we do not think the right to speak with the same intensity of the former economy, of the great economy, as of this small economy. They don't seem to rebel because they've been out of business for a month and they don't have enough help. They do not threaten the Government to demand further measures, probably because they do not care as much about this economy as about the other one we have transferred to them. But for us, yes, this is the real economy, the small-scale economy, that of proximity, that makes us recognizable and recognized between each other and that which generates wealth in the territory, that stays in the territory, does not go to other tax havens because, as I said in my first intervention, in Europe money can flow with a speed that anyone already wanted. But today we are faced with the need to make a new decision that will mark the new reality, the new normality - as the President said this morning - that awaits us. Who will pay for everything that costs to take the measures that are being taken. We recognize that in this decree there are interesting measures that go in line with what was manifested in this Chamber two weeks ago, of the needs that had to be implemented. However, some are still missing and we believe that these measures are partly due to the pressures that can be brought from the big economy to the small economy. For us this crisis has shown something, and I understand that this thesis may not be shared by many people, according to what has been the support that has been supporting this I am going to say. We believe that neoliberal policies have failed. I say it again, they've failed. I know that in this Chamber this will be a minority; I know that there are many people who will continue to say that it is the best of the possible economic systems, but what we are seeing is that when this system is in a critical emergency, the red phone of capitalism is out of reach for citizens. That's the sad reality. And what we see is that citizens are taking the best of themselves to build realities that have nothing to do with neoliberalism and that are saving citizens. They have to do with the common good, they have to do with mutual care, they have to do with the value of the public above any other consideration. We believe that that is the main virtue of all this. And that's where we have to be, in strengthening the public and in protecting people. That is why we ask them more, not because we do not value what they do, but because we believe that more needs to be done. We have to do it now, there is no time to think or generate a think tank, this is something very modern, and spend a year valuing, exchanging memos and after a year and a half conclude that, perhaps, we do not agree so much. People need solutions and they need them now. All those people we've been talking about, the self-employed, the little traders, all of them. And enough to worry about the results of IBEX, enough to protect - as they have already said - banks and electricity, enough to protect that 1% that accumulates more than 111 billion wealth - 111 billion wealth, 1% of the population. It is time to say that it is enough to govern for them, to legislate for them, and that they benefit only and exclusively. I should touch people now. That is why I repeat some of the proposals we made two weeks ago here. We believe that the suspension of the payment of mortgages and, as a matter of urgency, of rents for people in vulnerable situations, decrease in income or affected by ERE, ERTE and/or redundancies should be considered. Suspension, gentlemen of the government, not moratorium. What you propose may, in fact, mean that families continue to accumulate debt that they will have to pay later, and in some cases not in a very distant after, but in a very near after if what has to do with the rent is linked to the duration of the contract; if the contract is already over, the time limit that you have to pay the debt is also shortened and, therefore, they fix very little. We must also talk about the suspension of payments for essential service bills such as electricity, water and gas for vulnerable and income-reducing groups, as well as for self-employed people. And again, suspension, suspense, paraphrasing someone, you could say. Because it is no less true that the big hydroelectric companies have made a lot of money in this country, they have huge profits and I have not yet been able to go out on the balcony to applaud them no day at eight in the afternoon at their huge donation, which we are waiting for them to make. Large companies in this country are not setting an example, and they will therefore have to be required to set an example. We believe that an emergency guaranteed income equal to the interprofessional minimum wage should be introduced for anyone who has substantially reduced his or her income. This is urgent, and in other countries they are already starting to frame it. I don't know whether they'll finally do it or not, nor do I want to point out something that may not be true, but they are looking at it. Do it here too. We need to talk about special unemployment cover for precarious workers, for permanent discontinuous or temporary workers who do not currently have the right to be covered, accompanied by the suspension of the liquidation of tax obligations and the prohibition of lay-off in general self-employment or any other form of unpaid monthly quota. We will also talk about the self-employed and the need to reduce the percentage of losses, 75%, so that they can benefit from aid and suspension of commercial rentals. You don't have to lose so much to lose practically everything. That should be taken into account too. Dismissals and devaluation of working conditions must be prohibited not only while the state of alarm lasts, but later, when ERTEs get up and entrepreneurs are tempted to earn more money again regardless of the workers. It is necessary to block the prices of basic necessities and health products, in order to put an end to the speculation that some companies are making by taking advantage of the need. The size of the submerged economy must be taken into account, because you were talking about the female household workers, but one third of the female household workers are living in the submerged economy and will not be able to benefit from the aid that you have announced here today. So we could talk about many more things to do, but you have talked about Europe, and I end with this. Of course we must demand Europe, I agree. He must be asked to make a wealth tax in the European Union. He must be asked to inject money and to do so by assuming a deficit limit that is higher than the current one. It is not revolutionary what I am proposing, that they accept even neoliberal economists. In short, we have to make money even if the deficit rises. And making money - let me give you the advice - shouldn't be such a bad thing because even the paper house triumphs and its original argument went from that.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u86	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, minister, the truth is that they would deserve us not to vote, because what cannot be done is to launch an omnibus law of this size, eighty-eight sheets, without even consulting. Obviously, in a decree we can only vote on yes or no things that are very positive, there are some things that did not have to do so and there are many other things that are missing as well. But it is true that there are many positive things in the field of consumers, self-employed, vulnerable groups, tax measures. You have read us all the explanatory statement, and you have also repeated the speech made earlier by the President. I have seven minutes and I'm going to tell you one thing you shouldn't have done: take the money out of the active employment policies of the autonomous communities to pass it on to the state's coffers for an objective for which those contributions are not made. If they were going to do so or if in the end it was necessary to do so, first, neither is this the method, that of the decree-law, nor, second, is it the method that is not previously agreed with the autonomous communities. They remove de facto competition by eliminating these amounts, and revenues that have a finalist destiny defined by law you reconvert it; these are amounts that are going to be needed tomorrow, because, once we get out of this situation, of course active employment policies will have to do. Don't tell me: no, it's a month or two less to do it; it's the same, it's going to have to do it, and that money, in addition, if it had to go to other needs, it would in any case be for the autonomous communities, but not for the State, which, unilaterally and without warning, takes that step. Understand that, honestly, we are surprised and annoyed by it. I'll tell you something else. When the rules are made, obviously what cannot be done is to transform the legal order, and what you do is to skip part of the legal order, for example, when you ask the municipalities for information. Not because you do not have to give them that information, which is very necessary, but do it as you have to do it, and as you have to do it is with the law of the State, but also the outlaws of the historical territories speak of the fact that the competition over financial protection is held by the outlaws in the case of the Basque municipalities, and it is through the outlaws as you have to pass the information on to you in your case, and it will be given to you, because we are all here to cooperate, but do things as it has to be, because, of course, the news has arrived to the municipalities that has arrived, directly from the Spanish Government, when it should not be so. We think there is a lot of regulation missing; there are measures for autonomous and vulnerable groups - I have little time, so I'm going to go to a few -: in the mortgage moratorium, in the purchase of housing, business premises, it's very good, but no moratorium is collected or any discount, for example, for the rents of a business premises, which is a very important, fundamental expense and which affects most small businesses and self-employed small businesses. I would suggest that in a way and in a way that the Basque Government has done, help if the premises are not part of family housing and there is no relationship with the tenant, that is to say a partner of the natural or legal tenants, because it is not just about buying or mortgage, the rental of business premises are a problem and a case study that we will find in more abundance than the other. I believe that in order for self-employed people to be able to obtain the special unemployment benefit they have to justify 75% of income losses is unrealistic, honestly it is impossible; if only 25% or less is earned, living and maintaining the business is impossible. And then, when we talk about the following decrees, I will repeat it again from another perspective, but it seems to me that we have to rethink that 75% and reduce it. I think we need to make sure, and I do not think it is clear in the regulations that have been adopted - you may be able to show me that it is not so, but I am not clear at the moment - and we should make sure that people who are unemployed and actively seeking unemployment are not consumed on days of unemployment in this situation of alarm, the benefit should be extended for the duration of the confinement. I think we need to put forward a specific plan in the area of trade and hospitality. They will probably be the last sectors that can start to work and, therefore, we should think of specific measures, for longer and in a special way, to support these sectors. We welcome the fact that they are collecting the measures for the household workers we asked in our amendments when we discussed the first extension fifteen days ago. I also say to you that there will come a time when, as I told the President, all these measures, some of which are short-term, will have to be reorganized, but others will surely have to stay longer in time. In this respect, I repeat what I said earlier: we do not oppose the possibility of a minimum income as a measure of subsuming and solving problems which, with specific situations and excessive regulation, would not be viable. It is a subject to be studied, but, of course, what we are not prepared to do is to do so by making things that are not working or by hindering things that are already working, such as income security income in Euskadi. As my time has run out, nothing more. So, therefore, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u88	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u89	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen; good afternoon, Vice President. The first thing I want to say is that good things can be done, you can make a real decree-law thinking of the general interest of the Spaniards, but you cannot go out afterwards to say that everything has been done, that nothing else could have been done, in a tone, in short, a little ash, sincerely, of apology for the actions of the Government and that, of course, it does not give us any optimism with regard to the measures that the Government can take; its cabinet partner, Mr Fernando Grande-Marlaska, says that he has no reason to regret. You know that in this situation we have supported the Government with loyalty, with open hand but also with demand, since the beginning of this health crisis. It seems to us that the royal decree-law that presents us - some other intervener has also said - comes late and is small, short; it could have been more ambitious in the protection that it has to implement in the economy. We are pleased that the royal decree has indeed been improved and that many of the proposals that we have just put forward have been accepted. We are very pleased that the Socialist Group is committed to ensuring that this royal decree-law, as well as Royal Decree-law 8/2020, can be dealt with as a bill and that, in this way, all the contributions of the various parliamentary groups in the House can be gathered. It would be very easy to oppose without more, but we, between rejection, are not, and to be able to contribute to the improvement, as we are a center party, we are a useful party, we prefer to collaborate in the improvement of the norm and not simply reject it. You have heard, you can see that in this crisis you are correcting many of the mistakes you have been making in a unilateral way; you have listened, for example, to our proposals with regard to the protection of temporary workers, domestic workers or with regard to the extension of the mortgage moratorium. Indeed, it is not to rule by decree-laws; it is also to listen to the opposition and - remember what I told you at the beginning - to recognize errors, because mistakes are learned. Those of Citizens are people of center, moderate, pragmatic, who seek solutions. We are not nationalists, we are not populists, we do not believe in dogmas. We are dealing with the problems and trying to solve them and, indeed, we want to help them make good decisions to protect businesses, workers, self-employed people and families, but we also govern. We govern in four autonomous communities. Before the president of the government confronted me in his reply: For in the autonomous community... I did not want to enter there because it is not the time to enter, but see what we do in the autonomous communities. I'll tell you. We govern for 20 million Spaniards - Andalusia, Castile and León, Madrid and Murcia -; we advance in the closure of the schools; we have helped to pay the quota of autonomous in Madrid and Andalusia, with concrete and determined aids with money; we have reformulated budgets; we have increased the production of rapid tests - the hospital of Ifema, in Madrid, is set as an example in the World Health Organization - but we believe in equality. This must be done throughout Spain and only you from the government can do this throughout Spain, because we believe in that equality. Yeah, listen, listen. Listen to the social partners, not only you, Madam Vice-President, also the Minister of Labour, so that Mr Garamendi does not go on television saying that he has been informed by the BOE of the important impact measures on the companies involved in abolishing the target dismissal. And don't lean on ideology. I have said that before in my speech. We must be sensible and, if they are, they will have our loyal and demanding support, but not with dogmas, with populism, not only with ideology. It is true that we will be allowed to proceed as a bill, that we will be admitted or committed to accepting the flexibility of the recovery of paid leave hours, and we are pleased that tomorrow they will bring to the Council of Ministers the suspension of the obligation to submit quarterly declarations. Do so generously and do not again burden the self-employed with red tape so that they can access this benefit. Find out about the self-employed. It is true, as I say, that they have listened to us, that they have listened to us in the line of credits endorsed by the State, but we also ask you for more flexibility with regard to the ERTE, a fiscal moratorium. In particular, we ask you to discriminate between the big company, the small company, the medium-sized company and the self-employed or the micro-enterprise, because measures cannot be taken for all alike because the different companies have different financial muscles. There are charges that are going to sink to small businesses, charges that arise from the royal decree-laws. Do you have anything against the self-employed, against those people who rise up every morning, climb the blind, work, create jobs, create wealth and also never get sick, as we usually always say about the self-employed? For you forget to put the self-employed in the shock plan; then you have to put them in, but you don't all seem to come in; you force them into a bureaucratic mess; you start to charge them the March quota and then you say you'll give them a moratorium for the next quota period; you say you can postpone those quotas, but you charge 0.5% interest. Sanity. Here in this House we have heard nonsense, in my opinion, as, for example, that the only good health is the public and the private is perverse, they are traders. Right now public health and private health are struggling together to end the virus and in private health there are many autonomous, many autonomous who need help and who are found precisely in these essential sectors: physiotherapists, psychologists, dentists. But it is that even the mutualists, who have forgotten about the mutualists, that we have a mutual social foresight alternative to the RETA, which is of doctors, that we not only have lawyers, prosecutors or engineers. So, listen, let yourself be helped. Self-employed people think they're abandoned. Forgive them for the April quota; do you, as another intervener has already said, lower that 75 % limit on income, because you imagine a family with two self-employed and each one of them has to lose 75 % in order to be able to be creditors of the benefit? Financing at zero cost. Think of a flat rate when we get out of the crisis with regard to the companies that have closed, in a quota, for example, of 60 euros, and be generous tomorrow in that royal decree. We will vote that yes and yes is a no to improvisation, a no to unilaterality, a no to ideological imposition and a yes conditional on them fulfilling their commitments and fulfilling their obligations to all Spanish citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u90	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Errejón Galván.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u91	Thank you very much, Madam Economic Vice-President. We have a feeling in the last three weeks that we are pointing out some of the measures that need to be taken and that, when we say them, they are derailed and a little later. If that were just a subjective feeling, nothing would happen because everyone lives with their feelings, the problem is that the passing of weeks in a crisis situation can be fundamental and the difference between being late and not arriving can be none. In cases of national emergency being late or short may be equivalent to not arriving. We have hardly forged a consensus - and it has cost a lot - the consensus that only by stopping the activity in the country could we stop the virus. That was achieved, but he was putting some homework on the next day. If we were to break the economy, we had to decide who was going to pay the economic break. All the ballot papers are made by the most vulnerable people: those who cannot stand, those who do not have capital reserves, those who do not have current accounts outside our country, those who do not have great aid. All the papers are made by the people who live from their work. In order not to do so, the government decided to launch a plan that called it a social shield - and we salute it - that we have said today that for us it presents very positive things, such as some of those that you have defended, and others that we believe are serious holes for which many Spaniards fall. On this second point, it seems to us that we are going much further and that we are much further behind. In a crisis situation, staying half-hearted is the worst option, because it can not satisfy anyone and you can run the risk of angering everyone. In this case, the music says you're not going to leave anyone behind, but in the lyrics, in the small lyrics, there are a lot of people left behind. I give just a few examples. The first no one else will mention it. I think the minister in charge was wrong when he said that this was not a crisis that concerned culture. I believe that a position such as that of France or Germany which has said that culture is a sector of primary necessity - no matter whether we are seeing it in the confinement! - is more appropriate and that it must be protected by the public authorities. Some other examples have been pointed out. Many of the people who want to accept the moratoria of mortgage payments end up losing in a maze of papers and requirements so that in the end the aid does not reach them. Some of the self-employed have to continue paying rents for their home and rents for the businesses where they work, but also many of the expenses arising from their work - taxi licenses, the vehicle, the machinery - and for that no one protects them. A large part of the workers who were fired between the state of alarm and the labor decree, almost half a million workers, are left out of the weather. And the tenants see how basically the policy that is suggested to them is that they can ask for a loan, but, yes, the renters of up to ten homes are guaranteed up to the last of their euros. In this situation, we have said that what is needed is a determined policy of direct transfer so that the only social policy is not that people are in debt, because, if not, when we get out of it, we are going to have a second problem, a second conflict. We ask for a direct transfer quarantine rent to ensure that we get out of it effectively without leaving anyone behind. I know the right-wings are going to take advantage of this to make a war on the government; they're doing it now. We do not believe that a war should be waged against the government. We believe that a war must be waged, firstly, on the virus and, secondly, on the crisis and inequality. In order to carry out that fight well, we believe it is essential that you bring here more than the measures you bring. We will not oppose it, but I acknowledge that we expected more from this Government and we continue to expect more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u92	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you. I also have the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Compromís is a young formation. We were born ten years ago with one goal: to rescue people; we were born with that crisis and we maintain the same spirit. We do not want it to happen as in that crisis, which ends up paying for little clothing, that is, some were saved, the usual ones, and others were paid for, the usual ones; the banks were saved and they had 65 billion that have not been returned. That is why I told the President this morning and I am also telling you, Minister, to keep an eye on the banks. They are already being monitored by the National Securities Market Commission. Moreover, keep an eye on the loans they grant, but especially those that refuse, because it seems that they are giving those loans precisely to the most solvents, to those who probably need them less, and are denying them to those who need them most. That's why I'm telling you: watch the banks and watch the interest rates they're trying to put in, apart from some financial products. For this evening or tonight - because sometimes they last all night - I wish you much luck in heart, but I also tell you to be very strong. Here, in this very rostrum - I have heard it, for example, from Mr El Errejon - I have heard some proposal on Mediterranean fronts. Resist; resist so that it does not pass us like ten years ago, that they ended up paying the usual ones. Hurry up, Mrs. Calviño, and be strong. I'm done. We will vote in favour, especially because it can be dealt with as a bill. And I agree with Mr Esteban that there are positive and negative things; negative, for example, that employment policies are thus taken away from the autonomous communities. And I'm done. The loyalty and unity that the President requested this morning are founded, I insist, with respect also to the smaller groups, with respect and with dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u94	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you. Also for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, the BNG valued the government's first economic and social policies validated fifteen days ago as insufficient to protect the most vulnerable, if not unfair, social and economic sectors, which is why we do not support them. Unfortunately, this second package that is presented to us today reaffirms us in this perception, so we will not support it either; we will not vote against it, but not in favour. In the midst of a cascade of decisions, rectifications and clarifications that generate more confusion than certainties and that involve such a rumbling link as'social shield', there is evidence that, alongside necessary measures, the Government was not able to adopt courageous solutions that mark a path of social exit to the economic crisis generated by the health emergency. We regret that there have been no proposals that we have made, such as cancelling mortgages to families and self-employed persons or taxing them, in the same way that it has not been agreed to condone the payment of rents to private and self-employed persons, especially in cases where tenants are large real estate owners. These are, in our view, measures that continue to be necessary. Unfortunately, we are seeing that once again the social and economic crisis will pay for it: the workers. The call for new Moncloa pacts, of infamous remembrance for the working class and the peoples of the State, confirms that we are going in the wrong direction. The BNG is clear that there are other ways. Why, instead of getting into the Social Security of wage earners, in the training fund, are there not new tax policies that really engrave big fortunes, that make big corporations pay more or that lead to the recovery of the funds - billions of euros not returned - from the bank bailout, which are public resources, money of all of us and all of us? There are other ways, yes: to nationalize the major corporations of the strategic sectors, which should never have been privatized; to reduce military spending and to renounce the acquisition of EF-2000 combat aircraft, SAT control satellites or S-80 submarines, with a multi-million dollar cost; in short, to change the priorities to place the popular classes in the center. That is where a truly progressive government would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u96	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u97	Thank you very much, President. Remembering old times. Some of us, some of us groups, have been warning for a long time that the day would come when we would not support some of their royal decrees, warning that they were insufficient and, above all, unconsensuous. I believe that this is a fairly cross-cutting complaint in the interventions that have preceded me. For now, in this case, this royal decree will come out, but they come out more and more just, with the numbers tighter. We ask you, like virtually the rest of the parliamentary groups, to make them look at it. We, for example, will today abstain from this royal decree. We consider it a real good decree in general. It collects many of the initiatives that we have proposed to you, even some that are implemented by the Government of the Generalitat, but are charged with it, they charge it by opening the door to one of the biggest axes to the autonomous communities that have known this democracy, by opening the door to remove the Cooperation Fund to the autonomous communities; in the case of Catalonia fifty-five percent. If they need liquidity, they must go to the European Central Bank or to Europe and not further strain the treasury of the autonomous communities, which is already terribly strained. But as in crises, or if you think or act, and we are much more than the second than the first, we have proposals to make to you. The first, we repeat, is the decentralization of resources. Recentralisation is never the solution, and that door that opens in this royal decree to cut the active policies of occupation to the autonomous communities by more than 2400 million euros seems to us never to be the solution. They can thus de facto leave less than half of the resources to autonomous public services to face the post-crisis in their quest for liquidity. No Administration knows better what happens on a day-to-day basis than the local, the autonomous or the municipal. We have commented earlier: we know much better what happens in Hospitalet from an office in Hospitalet than from an office of the ministry of Madrid; and it has nothing to do with nationalism, but with simple efficiency. The second proposal is the extension of the envisaged moratorium on evictions. In view of the magnitude and depth of the economic precipice we face, a six-month moratorium seems ostensibly inadequate. For everyone to understand, the year 2008, the so-called crisis - in fact, the year 2008 scam - was a slowing down. This is a stoppage, and the consequences can be much worse. Three: the assumption by the State of the responsibilities arising from the suspension of the payment of rents to individuals, self-employed persons and small entrepreneurs. Your proposal to offer microcredits to tenants who cannot pay rent seems irresponsible, clearly irresponsible. The solution cannot go through the indebtedness of the weakest. From our point of view, the State must assume that debt bound by the effects of the virus and, above all, define what a small owner is. It is not the same a retirement marriage that puts its apartment for rent to complete the pension, as a speculator with fifty houses. Four: the suspension of the payment of basic services such as light, water or gas; it is not enough with the ban. Half of these bills, as you know, are fixed expenses regardless of consumption and production, and with which people are falling they cannot choose every month between eating or paying for the light. Five, and here we stand a little longer: to save the autonomous. We are talking about 3 million people, 600 000 in Catalonia alone, not counting the thousands who are in the submerged economy; for example, 240 000 domestic workers. Here we propose basically five measures. One: advancement of the envisaged moratorium on the payment of social security contributions for self-employed workers. You do not place the start of the moratorium until May; the self-employed have already been replaced by the post of March. From our point of view, they're late and they're bad. It is absolutely incomprehensible to charge this quota at a time of zero activity. If in this crisis there is a health quarantine and an economic quarantine, there should also be a tax quarantine for the most affected, and the self-employed are. Two: extension of the quota of self-employed persons, not setting as a time limit the duration of the state of alarm, but the duration of the economic impact of the health crisis. Three: comprehensive reform of the RETA, to establish, once and for all, a contribution system subject to real income. Four: one-year moratorium on the settlement of VAT in the second quarter. And five: ensure them a controlled, fast and easy access to ICO credits. Abuses are already being found by the bank that require the payment of life insurance, for example, to those self-employed who are requesting these credits. Other proposals already repeated are: an income from confinement - we understand that we do not have to let families down; otherwise, there will be no country to raise - and modify or expand the spending limit imposed on the autonomous communities and municipalities - 300 million seems to us little, as has been announced -. Another proposal would be two taxes, as we have also commented. The first would be temporary, solidarity and extraordinary to companies and digital distribution or trading platforms - intermediaries, in short - that are being enriched exponentially during this confinement; for example, to put a tax on Glovo to try to finance other aid. The second tax would be on big fortunes. Nationalize if it is necessary to nationalize. This causes urticaria, but it will increasingly cause less urticaria; what makes no sense is that there are free beds in private health, while there are no beds in ICUs. And the last of our proposals is investment in culture and research. We don't have to get a pandemic to realize how important these two camps are. As Lorca said: Culture because only through it can the problems in which the people, this people, full of faith, but lacking in light can be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u98	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u99	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I want to introduce just two reflections given the short time I have. The second will necessarily concern the European context - something which the minister has already anticipated in her intervention - so crucial for the future of our country and also for the viability of the regional project itself, but the first of these has to do with the national level. In this regard, while the rest of the Governments facing a situation as challenging as that which we are experiencing have had the support of their respective oppositions, Spain has again been an anomaly - today's example has been evident - because the right-wing, those who have been crying out against the legitimacy of this coalition government since the minute one of its course, have seen no better opportunity to meddle and defend interests on the part of this moment of crisis, a crisis defined by the United Nations as the largest one facing the planet since the Second World War. Finally, it will be the judgment of history that puts each one in his place, as my colleague Echenique previously said. In any case, I will focus exclusively on two criticisms that have been repeating the right in perfect synchrony and that, out of respect for this rostrum and for what it represents, I will limit myself to classifying myself as Tautological. The first tautology has been to dispatch government action as ideological. We also heard it here today. It seems that the reason for such an abrupt move has to do with the shield of social measures that the Government is putting in place, some of which are precisely part of the royal decree-law that we are now discussing. No greater obviousness can be pronounced: ideological. Slovene philosopher Slavoj is saying that there is no more ideological claim than that which denies its own ideological character. Here, to my right, is the clear example, because when every government comes to this point, it faces a dilemma that can only be solved ideologically: either the interests of the majority are defended or the majority is condemned to save the interests of a privileged minority. Or was it not ideological the exit from the previous crisis that you applied, gentlemen of the right, and that today has left the world of work sown with precariousness and uncertainty? Was it not an ideological choice the condemnation they imposed on millions of Spanish families as a necessary requirement to save the ass of their friends from banking and high finance? Is it not but ideological and very unchristian, by the way, the contempt they feel for the humble people of this country? I would like to highlight some of the measures approved in the area of rental, mortgage loans and loans without mortgage credit that are included in this royal decree. I can barely sketch a few. They include, for example, the ban on eviction of tenants for six months, as has already been said. This includes the moratorium on rent debt or the line of guarantees for the granting of financing aid without costs or interest to the applicant, or the direct granting of rental aid itself, in which for the first time the category of large holders is introduced in Spain, something that has been claimed here in this House, because we cannot ask the same sacrifice from a family that owns two, three houses than from the fund that owns a huge real estate capital; this seems like a drawer. Similarly, the payment of loans or loans without mortgage guarantee to vulnerable creditors is temporarily suspended. With regard to the labour market - it has also been highlighted - an extraordinary subsidy is being created for domestic workers; we are talking about women in particular, 96% of this sector. Consumer rights are also strengthened in the suspension or termination of contracts, the reimbursement of pension plans and protection against ludopathy. A social bonus is also created for self-employed persons who have ceased their activity or have seen their turnover reduced, while a moratorium on social security contributions is established. All these measures give us an idea that, in fact, the Government has chosen, and has done, unlike the last financial crisis, to defend the interests of the majority. Indeed, much remains to be done to speed up access to all these social funds, credit lines and approved moratoriums; in fact, we are aware of the difficulties that some sectors have experienced in accessing these aids designed to alleviate the unbearable burden that all this entails for vulnerable families, self-employed and workers. That is why we from our parliamentary group continue to bet on the creation of a vital minimum income, in line with what other governments are already proposing; that is why we have also loyally sent the Government some proposals to simplify procedures and thus speed up the arrival of these aids. This brings me to the second of the tautologies, repeated in unison by the corifes of the right: that of which this government is improvising. What one has to listen to! At a time of crisis, completely alien to the very productive model, completely unpredictable, in which every day counts to save thousands of lives, is not the Government, any Government, forced to improvise? In fact, the actual decree that concerns us shows this improvisation insofar as, for example, it extends the period of suspension to three months for mortgages with respect to what had already been approved in Royal Decree-Law 8/2020, as is the extension of coverage, the moratorium to self-employed and tenants in situations due to the loss of rent, and a second phase of lines of endorsement is also implemented, since the first, of 20 billion, has proved to be insufficient. All this remains a clear symptom of improvisation, of necessary improvisation, as a requirement of effectiveness and endurance in the many complex urgent responses that are required. Let me close by introducing a second reflection, Madam Minister, on the European scale, and more now, when you are about to travel to start this second round of negotiations in Brussels; and you will forgive me for the fight metaphor, because there are countries to the north that have decided to make this a fight against the south. Specifically, we have had to listen to the Dutch government insinuations of protection against our country or against Italy; the government that has most practiced fiscal dumping in the European Union now calls us irresponsible. Certainly, the forms were quite impertinent, even clumsy I would say, but the bottom has no other qualification than that given to it by Mr António Costa, Portuguese Prime Minister: simply repugnant. Madam Vice-President, we are aware of the effort you are making personally to find some viable mechanism for debt-sharing in Europe. Perhaps the possibility of the Commission issuing its own titles and transferring resources to countries according to the needs of each might be the solution sought. In any case, we all know that it will not even be enough in the medium term with the commitment of the European Central Bank to provide almost a billion euros in order to avoid speculative attacks by way of buying national debt securities. Allow me, Minister, to conclude, a kind recommendation for this second round and for those who are to come. We will need the strategic support of the Iberian brothers: of the Republic of Portugal, of France, yes, of course, but also of Italy. We cannot afford to break that alliance. There are many reasons that I could put forward here to explain why we have to maintain that alliance, but I will simply detail one: the correlation of forces would crush us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u100	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u101	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. At a time when misery plagues Spain as we do not remember in the recent history of our democracy; at a time when mourning and pain are devastating and desolating the Spanish homes, only interrupted every day at eight o'clock in the afternoon, when in hope we look to the balconies to applaud the true non-layered heroes who are being in this struggle against COVID; at a day like today, in which the Executive submits to us a fifth royal decree-law since the beginning of this crisis, to try to deal with the biggest crisis we have faced - as I was saying - in Spain in the most recent history of our democracy; at this time, ladies and gentlemen, we find that the Spanish Socialcommunist Government has abandoned the Spanish. His only concern is the story, and to this story responds the Royal Decree-Law 11/2020, which only represents a new advance in Mr. Pablo Iglesias' chavista aspirations, incorporating a series of measures that seek greater intervention in our economy and that despite selling it as a supposed social shield to deal with the serious crisis caused by the COVID, as I will now reason, is not so. In the abbreviated memory of the analysis of the normative impact that they have referred to this House, they said, as the Vice-President said, that she intends to fulfil three purposes: support for vulnerable workers, consumers, families and groups; strengthen economic activity and support businesses and self-employed people; and adjust the functioning of the public administration to the current needs. The reality, however, is that the measures incorporated in the text are clearly insufficient. To cite a specific example, the moratorium or reduction in rents they have established will cover only a small percentage of tenants - we are talking about between 5 and 10 % of the rented houses in Spain - to which this measure will apply, which will benefit the few tenants who have defined as potential beneficiaries. Is this the social shield the Spaniards deserve, Madam Vice President? No, in our opinion. In VOX we say that so far the Spaniards have worked to maintain the State and that, precisely because of this, it is in this critical situation that it is the State that has to work to keep the Spaniards. How? For, among other measures, paying the salary to the Spanish workers and self-employed who have been prevented from working during the period of state of alarm and its extensions, proceeding in this way to be truly at their side. Gentlemen of the Government, you are still settled in the most absolute improvisation, and this decree-law is but a new sign of it. As they do not reduce political spending and income is limited, as you know, Madam Vice-President, they are obliged to resort to the Contingency Fund and, as this is insufficient - the President of the Government will tell us where he is going to get the 200 billion euros he mentioned this morning - to feed him, in Article 49 of the text, to take control of the box of autonomous bodies and other entities belonging to the state public sector. Its improvisation has led to a subsequent correction by the Minister of Finance, because it is clear that it will only affect public entities with a limited budget. I would ask you, Madam Vice-President, that before publishing the corresponding correction of errors in the EBD, you should be concerned to read Article 47 of the General Budget Act, because you have forgotten to mention the necessary prior agreement of the administrators before demanding the entry of liquid availabilities. In this battle of the story that concerns them and occupies them and in which, as a last occurrence, the Government has brought to light the Moncloa Pacts, they remain anchored in the same lies that led them to take hundreds of thousands of Spaniards to the streets to celebrate their 8M ideological manifestation, with grave risk of their lives and clear criminal negligence. But you, as I tell you, remain anchored in lies. They lie about the number of lives that are suffering from the COVID crisis, that we are losing; and I don't say it, the president of funeral professionals said it first. Subsequently, the autonomous communities, including those that govern with the same political colour, speak up to twice as many deaths as the official data of the Government, and the Supreme Court of Justice of Castilla-La Mancha, which speaks of up to three times as many deaths as the Government is providing. Official data. That is why it is you, as the president of VOX has pointed out, the government of the bubble. They want to hide their criminal negligence, but the nearly eight hundred daily deaths that are occurring in Spain, and that with their figures made up, make them the responsible government in the world of the highest number of deaths per million inhabitants. That is the reality: the worst government at the worst possible time. And do you know the height of indecency? That with this reality what we have to endure is a Government that is full of pride, with an arrogant Minister of the Interior who goes out to tell the media that this Government has no reason to regret anything. If Mr Marlaska were here, we could openly tell him that he has a lot to cover up. Because I agree with the President of the Government, as he indicated this morning, that this crisis is not to blame. It is true that this crisis is not guilty, but it is responsible, and Mr. Grande-Marlaska is specifically responsible for the death, to date, of eight civilian guards, two national police officers, the wife of another fellow deceased in Granada and a prison officer in Alicante, as well as for the absolute helplessness of his relatives, just as he is responsible for ceasing the head of occupational risk prevention, Mr. Nieto, at the end of January, precisely for bringing to light a protocol of prevention in the fight against COVID and accusing him, three months after his retirement, of generating alarm. [[Mrs. Cantera de Castro: But what do you say, but what are you saying!]] We anticipate, Madam Vice-President, that the VOX Parliamentary Group is going to abstain, because not only are these measures insufficient, but that, to a greater extent, they are going to incur ignominy, as they have done with the Royal Decree-Law 8/2020, which again abducts the misery that is destroying Spain, and as we have resorted to the Constitutional Court said Royal Decree-Law by including Mr Iglesias and shielding him in the Commission that controls the CNI, we will proceed to appeal this Royal Decree-Law in so far as, in the face of the serious health, economic and social crisis that is destroying our country, what you have done has been to grant a subsidy of 15 million euros, proceeding to rescue the audiovisual media, which, as you are demonstrating daily these bribed media, are but an instrument for the service of the end that you truly pursue, that account mentioned at the beginning of my intervention, Madam Vice-President, because they are actually activists and propagandist media. I shall conclude now, Madam President. As much as you try to show that you are building a social shield to protect citizens, the Spanish people will not forget that, as in the crises of 2008 and 2012, with the popular government, you have rescued the banks and abandoned the Spaniards, you have already abandoned more than eight thousand older people who have died in the residences and have evicted them, not allowing them to have access to ICUs when they are over that age. In conclusion, Madam President, Mr Sánchez wanted to go into history for having dug up a man. Unfortunately, he has fulfilled his goal, and he will be remembered as Peter the gravedigger. He tried to dig up a dead man and ended up burying thousands. President Abascal has told you and I repeat it to you today. Pay the payroll for all the Spaniards and leave, please. The lives of thousands of citizens are at stake. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u102	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Vice-President, between the alarm and the exception, between the exception and the alarm: the alarm of 47 million Spaniards confined in their homes, deprived of their freedom of movement, living one of the most heartbreaking situations that Spanish society has experienced over the last hundred years. And the exception of those who are no longer, those compatriots who, unfortunately, are no longer, those fifteen thousand Spaniards who have died. The data are desolating, Madam Vice-President, and it is true that they are the result of a universal pandemic and it is true that they are the result of a widespread disease, but we are talking about 900 000 jobs destroyed, we are talking about 82 000 companies that have been extinct since the beginning of the crisis, we are talking about 473,000 ERTE requested, which can cover approximately 2.7 million Spaniards. We are talking about a scene of absolute desolation, but I will tell you one thing, Vice President: how sad we Spanish people are, that we can compute unemployed people and cannot compute the dead in our country. How sad! [[The lady]] In a state of extraordinary necessity and in a state of exceptionality, I agree with you that we have to make decisions that have to be extraordinary because our behavior has to conform to a new order - it is not worth the ordinary order, it is not worth the everyday order - and, moreover, it puts us in a situation of exploring our own dilemmas. But everyone enters the crisis with an ideological position or not. I do not know if it will be a tautology, Mr Guijarro, ideology is present in any position and, of course, you entered with an ideological position, as it cannot be otherwise. The different issue is whether or not we agree with that ideological position, which obviously we are not, as it cannot be otherwise. There are two statements that we are not going to accept in any way. Firstly, a litany that is being imposed by the President of the Government by which he claims that this crisis is a completely symmetrical crisis. Of course, the President of the Government is wrong in geometry. Don't impose the litany of symmetry. Neither the health crisis has been symmetrical around the world nor the economic crisis is being symmetrical around the world, among other things because there are factors that determine the origin of the situation, and we do not enter the crisis with the best possible situation. In the same way that we have Mr Echenique here, who has put us out of the constitutional spectrum. Mr. Echenique, you were born a year after the Moncloa Pacts. I would ask you to review, whether in the books or in a self-help manual, what the Pacts of the Moncloa are and what the constitutional spirit of this party that represents millions of Spaniards is. Madam Vice-President, I will tell you one thing: it is not the Captain a posteriori; it is that we wanted an a priori president, because the art of politics, Mr Echenique, Madam Vice-President, is the art of anticipation, and unfortunately there has not been enough anticipation to cover both the health crisis and the economic crisis. During these days we have heard constantly talking about curves; let's talk about the economic curve. We have entered a curve - but let's talk about a real physical curve, as if we were on a road - with a wrong speed and a decimated vehicle: 2.7 points of budgetary imbalance, a situation of growth that was gradually diminishing in comparison with the rest of the European Union. It was not the best take-off situation to enter a curve of these characteristics. You said that 2% of budgetary imbalance was never going to be exceeded, as you see, 2.7% of budgetary imbalance. But, look, the way you get into the curve you can get out, and here's a factor also ideological, Mr. Guijarro. I am surprised by some statements, because the President of the Government is able to say the same and the opposite in five minutes, because he has come to say that the paradigm has to be changed, that we are going to come out with a new economic and social paradigm. He said it here and reiterated it again. And I don't know what the new economic and social paradigm is. What does the second vice president of the government defend when he confuses the general interest with the public and the private, systematically stigmatizing the private? You know as well as I do that we are born as private beings, we die as private beings and our economy is a liberal economy, Madam Vice President, and you know it; you know it. I know it has to be very hard to fight with a bicephaly like that in this government, and you know perfectly well what the counterweights of a liberal economy are. They have surprised me, however, because when the Socialist Party turns progress into progressiveism, it destroys progress; when the Socialist Party turns equality into egalitarianism, it destroys equality, and today we have had a demonstration, Mrs Lastra, that when you turn the pact into pactism, you destroy the pacts. Do you believe that an agreement can be reached when we have not even been called to negotiate economic decree-laws? And now you offer a covenant? Perhaps what should be done is an autopath with yourselves to rediscover the lost path of pragmatic socialism over the past forty years, that socialism that has been systematically lost. But I'm going to go on. Look, in this imbalance between the public and the private, Vice President, if you have made the account, 50% of the decisions that are included in the Royal Decree-Law are financed by private agents. Is that a general interest? Is it in the public interest? Is it private interest? Are we going to stigmatize individuals when they are taking over half of the measures included in Royal Decree-Law 11/2020? Too bad the second vice president of the government isn't here! Because I am curious, already ontological and intellectual, to find out what is the public, what is the private and the general, to see if I really explained it correctly in the faculty, because I don't think I should explain it correctly. But let's keep going. Moreover, the new decree-laws - and that is what we are seriously concerned about, Mr Guijarro and Mrs Vice-President - break the traditional balances of legal business based on the will of the parties, on free autonomy; break the balance of the right of ownership; break the right of lease; break the balances of the employer-employer relationship: break the relationships of balance and harmony that usually exist in the sales relations. I will tell you one thing, Madam Vice-President, we can understand - and that is why we are going to abstain - that in certain cases it is necessary to make contingent and not systemic decisions. I can accept that, but what we will never accept is that they become structural decisions. There are five reasons why, among other things, we are going to abstain in this royal decree-law. The first, they had an opportunity to meet the legitimate demands of the self-employed, 3 100 000 self-employed in this country, and instead of establishing the moratorium they have established in the payment they could have perfectly condemned the quota for March and April. They didn't. I ask you to do so if you have the opportunity to do so and to appeal to that spirit of understanding. Secondly, they have effectively confiscated, confiscating them, billions of funds dedicated to continuing training. And you come here to talk about loyalty with the autonomous communities when you have done it unilaterally? Look, before that, they could try to elude part of that absolutely majestic structure that this government has, with twenty-four ministers and with all the administrative structure that was set up, the result of a coalition government, of course, Madam Vice-President. But there's more, and I'm finishing up, Madam President. Do you think it is normal that in this situation 15 million euros be given to operators, to providers of digital terrestrial television public services?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u104	Mr. Garcés, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u105	I'm done. With fifteen million, look what could be done. 900 000 masks could have been purchased, 350 respirators, 330,000 gloves could have been purchased and up to 66 000 equipment could have been purchased. Of course - and I will finish with this - it is surprising that public business entities in the public sector are given the deadline for the submission of accounts and 20 million taxpayers are told that they have to submit the income declaration within the relevant deadline, until 30 June. I'm done. I believe that in the state of alarm what cannot be done is to confine freedom, neither individual freedom nor freedom of enterprise. But I do say one thing: if you are not at least able, ideologically, to defend individual freedom and freedom of enterprise when we get out of this crisis, I have asked you to at least be effective, not to turn a state of alarm into a state alarm. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Garcés. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Vice-President. Solidarity, solidarity always with those who suffer, with those who fight, with those who endure in this fight against the virus. Solidarity always; solidarity and measures such as those promoted by the Government, always with three clear objectives: strengthening our public health to overcome the virus, protecting the most vulnerable in this crisis and helping our productive apparatus to rebuild the economy and employment as soon as possible. Effective measures because they are working. That is also why this royal decree is being defended today in the rostrum: new subsidies for temporary workers who lose their jobs and have not contributed enough; new aid for the most vulnerable tenants; preventing evictions from paying rent; new support for the self-employed with moratoriums on their contributions; new support for vulnerable consumers, prohibiting the cutting of electricity and gas supplies. How can we assess, Mr Garcés, objectively all these factors, all these measures, which include the real decrees of the progressive government? Objectively, let us compare them with the royal decrees of 2012, when another crisis was facing, the crisis of financial toxics and the crisis of the real estate bubble. In the royal decrees of the year 2012, the right facilitated dismissals; now, the royal decrees of the progressive government encourage them. In the decrees of the year 2012 the right pushed the EREs that left workers on the street. The 2020 decrees encourage ERTs to keep jobs alive. In 2012 the royal decrees - laws of the right allowed companies to fire workers for going to the doctor; now it is prohibited. In 2012 they were a few, a minority, the self-employed who could receive a cessation benefit; now all - all - the self-employed who have to leave their activity receive a benefit. In 2012, one out of every two unemployed persons received public benefits throughout the right-wing Government; now two out of every three unemployed persons have public coverage. Conclusion: It is worse that this crisis is managed by a progressive government, a government sensitive to the needs of workers and the most vulnerable families! [[Applauds]] Because if it were managed by the right, to suffering for the disease we would have to add suffering for inequality, for injustice, for social insecurity and for the impoverishment of broad sections of the population, as occurred in 2012 and 2013. But it is curious that today's debate is constantly going to the State: that the State should lead, that the State should act, that the State should pay, that the State should subsidize, that the State should spend, that the State should pay even the payroll. Hey, where are the liberals, Mr. Garcés? Where is the speech about that mastodontic state that stifles the individual? [[Applauds]] Finally, where are the discourses about society not exist, only the individual exists? Those who kept these speeches now seek organized society, seek the State to protect their families. Those who blindly trusted everything in the invisible hand of the market now rely a little more on the most visible hand of public health officials, the ICUs. Where are the liberals, Mr. Garcés? The new paradigm. I'll tell you what the new paradigm is. The new paradigm is to trust the public, defend the public, defend public health because it is the one that guarantees our health, our well-being and the survival of our families. However, to defend the public is to prevent the privatisation and cutting of the public and to avoid, Mr Garcés, demagogic speeches about the cutting of taxes that sustain the public. That is also defending the public; that is the new paradigm. Ladies and gentlemen, they are continuing with the false speech of anticipation. My spokesman has well described the comparison between the speeds of one country and another in taking action in this crisis. I'll tell you about your own data. Between 1 January and 10 March this year, the groups of the People's Party and VOX have registered 107 initiatives, 55 VOX and 52 of the People's Parliamentary Group for the plenary session of this House. Do you know how many of them, Mr. Garcés, were destined in their submission to the masks, to the PPE, to protect the autonomous? Until 10 March, zero; from 107, zero, 0 %, Mr Garcés. In the legislative proposals, in the non-legislative proposals, in the interpellations and in the oral questions to the Government, you spoke of Delcy Rodríguez, Venezuela, Torra and Puigdemont, but not a word about masks. [[Applauds]] And if you knew, if you knew, why didn't you warn us, please?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Unity, loyalty and coherence, Mr. Garcés. By the way, the ultra-right is telling us today about negligence and indolence, the same ones, Mrs Olona, who do not take the phone to the President of the Government in the context of the greatest crisis of our lives; the same ones who divulge photographs, disgusting photo montages, filling the Gran Via Madrida with coffins; the same ones who pretend to make equivalent field hospitals with concentration camps. Hey, no, Mrs. Olona, the concentration camps were something else! Don't tell us! Many of our comrades died in the concentration camps that that man you referred to now in the rostrum, which was called Francisco Franco Bahamonde! That man set up the concentration camps! Field hospitals are going to receive treatment, concentration camps are going to receive torture and shooting! Don't compare me one thing to the other! [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Mr. Garcés, very hard, very hard on criticism. I will also talk to you about public policies, management and decisive factors. Do you know what are really decisive, decisive factors up to life and death in the fight against this virus and any pandemic? Three things: the equipment of our ICUs, the respirators in quality and quantity and the quantity of our intensivists. And this isn't improvised, Mr. Garcés, this has or doesn't have when faced with a pandemic. It does not go one afternoon to the Mercadona to buy well equipped ICUs and well prepared intensiveists, no; this is not one day to go to Shanghai or any other city in the world to improvise this: either it has or does not have at the beginning of a pandemic. Do you want us to talk about what has happened in Madrid for the past twenty years so that our ICUs are not well equipped? I'm sure you don't want to keep that argument with me. My spokesman has given you very interesting and enlightening figures on this. I do not want to maintain that conversation and debate now, because now the only enemy is the virus and the only way, the only purpose is that of unity and loyalty to defeat the virus. I'm just gonna ask you one thing.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u108	Mr. Simancas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u109	I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u111	You decide as soon as possible: either you get to work to beat the virus with us or you get to work to beat the government. We are looking, but the Spaniards too, I assure you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Simancas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 9/2020 OF 27 MARCH, BY WHICH SUPPLEMENTARY MEASURES ARE TAKEN, IN THE WORK AREA, TO PLAY THE EFFECTS ARISING FROM COVID-19. [[File number 130/000010]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 10/2020, OF 29 MARCH, RELATING TO A RECOGNIZEABLE RETURN PERMIT FOR PERSONS WORKING ON THE AGE THAT DO NOT PROVIDE ESSENTIAL SERVICES IN ORDER TO REDUCE THE MOBILITY OF POPULATION IN THE CONTEXT OF THE FIGHT AGAINST COVID-19. [[File number 130/000011]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u113	We continue with the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 9/2020 of 27 March, by which complementary measures are taken in the field of work to alleviate the effects of COVID-19, which, as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, will be discussed in conjunction with Royal Decree-Law 10/2020 of 29 March, which regulates a retrievable remuneration permit for persons employed on behalf of others who do not provide essential services, in order to reduce the mobility of the population in the context of the fight against COVID-19. To present these royal decree-laws, the Minister of Labour and Social Economy has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u114	Good afternoon. I want, first of all, that the memory of all the people who have died victims of the coronavirus pandemic presides today our words in this House. Our thought and our spirit are, as it could not be otherwise, with the memory of all of them. I also want to be with their families, friends and close friends, with the people who are facing the disease right now from the bed of a hospital and with the health personnel, pride of our country and emblem of our fortress, who are putting their hands and their bodies to assure us all a better future. Thank you very much. Today I come to ask, on behalf of the Government of Spain, for the validation of two royal decree-laws: 9/2020 and 10/2020. The former takes complementary measures in the field of work to alleviate the effects of COVID-19 and the latter, as you know, regulates a retrievable paid leave for persons employed by others who do not provide essential services in order to reduce the mobility of the population, as I have already said, in the context of the fight against COVID-19. As the President of this House has pointed out, both are going to be discussed cumulatively and, if I may, complement two measures already validated by this Congress: in particular, the Royal Decree of the state of alarm and the Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 of 17 March, of extraordinary urgent measures in the face of the economic and social impact of COVID-19. This debate is taking place today in an unprecedented situation for our country and for the rest of the world. The hardness of this trance inevitably coexists with the figures and balances that the health authorities of our country disclose every day. We have taken very restrictive and difficult measures and those measures are already having results, if I may. We are bending the transmission curve, we lose fewer lives, although each of them hurts and challenges us in the same way, and we have achieved it with difficult, restrictive containment measures, adapted to the gravity of the situation we are going through. Saving lives, protecting people, placing them at the very centre of our concerns as a government is the end of the decrees that we bring to debate today: the health consequences, but also the economic and social consequences of the pandemic; getting no one to stay behind and that when we get out of this trance, with the help of science, employment, the economic and labour vitality that we have shown are a reflection of the good health of our social body. We know more and more about this virus: its ways of contagion, its permanence, its forms of virality, and we also know how to prevent its transmission more effectively. For example, in workplaces, it is our responsibility to avoid transmissions in work environments; literally, we live in it, and without falling into false dichotomy. I want to say this: no one can force us to choose between health and economy because both form our existence and are fed back; health and livelihood, our bodies and our well-being. That balance was never as necessary as it is now. The best strategy against the economic and social crisis is to stop the coronavirus as soon as possible, act forcefully against the pandemic so that the health crisis is a short parentheses and economic recovery can arrive sooner and better. In addition, let me tell you that there is another false dilemma. It's not health in the face of economics, that no one is deceived. A week ago, the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, Kristalina Georgieva, as well as the Director of WHO, spoke with a single voice. I will literally say what they pointed out: Saving lives or jobs is a false dilemma; we need both. And they kept saying: It is urgent to give priority to health spending and must go, along with support for economic needs, reduce unemployment, avoid bankruptcy and move towards economic recovery. They are not, therefore, the companies in front of the workers. Maintaining employment is maintaining the businesses and living conditions of working people. The goal is not to close any company and not to lose any jobs; many have already been lost, we know, but we are going to let go of the skin to get them back. If one thing we have learned from previous crises is that defending work is a guarantee for people who keep their jobs, but also the best way, along with minimum living income, of economic recovery. The economy is people. An unemployed person who loses his or her job or an autonomous person who closes his or her activity are not simply figures for us. It's an economic problem, it's a social problem, it's a problem for our country, because when some people talk about economics they seem to reduce it to the business of a few. The measures of this Government are not intended for the benefits of a few shareholders, it is true; they are intended to revive economic activity and above all work. We therefore want the vitality shown by the Spanish economy and the good behaviour of employment not to be a portrait far from the immediate past. Today we stay in our homes, without being able to go out on the street, but we do not resign to regain our way of life. Nor do we give up reactivating our economy, creating jobs. They are not prints of the past because they are too alive still in our experience. Many of your ladies and gentlemen know my previous activity as a Member. They know that I have left my skin, and I continue to do so, defending the productive economy, defending our companies, defending our industry, defending our self-employed, and I still think this is key. Our goal and huge public resources are aimed at supporting businesses to maintain their activity and employment and contribute to the country's growth; supporting businesses to generate jobs and create wealth; supporting jobs to create wealth; and activating businesses and incomes to live decently for their work. Economic, labour and social objectives must therefore be closely linked. This crisis cannot be repaid by those who have already paid it; it would be unjust and unworthy. When we say that this virus we stop together, we are also saying that this crisis we overcome together. If you'll allow me, I'm going to report on the royal decree-laws we're asking for and urging their validation. As I said, the first of these is 9/2020 of 27 March, by which complementary measures are taken in the workplace to alleviate the effects of COVID-19. As his own name indicates, it is a complementary norm or, what is the same, a tax of the very important Royal Decree-Law 8/2020, which his lordships had the opportunity to validate on March 25 of this year and which is the key to the vault of the labor response to the crisis of the COVID-19. In this royal decree-law, in 8/2020, green light was given to the most ambitious set of employment maintenance devices in our history. The idea is simple and precise. As we fight this health crisis, companies and workers have at their disposal formulas to put their activity in parentheses, to stop on the road that allows, after overcoming the most harmful effects, to resume the activity, to return to normality. And as long as this parenthesis lasts, the public power, far from being profiled, assumes a decisive protective role for the workers, guaranteeing them unemployment, whether or not they have a period of lack, and putting, when all this happens, what we have called the accountant to zero, that is, by replacing the public unemployment benefits. For the companies, an exemption from their very ambitious contributions has been articulated, which allows them to endure, almost hibernate, to return to the scene without jams, without weights to drag. This is, as you know, a temporary employment regulation dossier, a management instrument already launched by President Zapatero in 2010, with strong European roots and which we have adapted to deal with a pandemic, transforming an ordinary measure into a protective shield for the service of health and the maintenance of employment. On the success of this measure, the following information is given: on the 9th day of yesterday, 8 April, we had communicated by the labour authorities of the Autonomous Communities a total of 450 000 ERTE, a number which in itself demonstrates the success of the measure. It should also be remembered in this House that people affected by an ERTE are busy people. Both Eurostat and all labour force surveys, including our EPA, collect it in this way. For a period of three months this is directly the case; moreover, Eurostat still considers them to be occupied after three months if ERTE continues and receives more than 50% of its salary, as is the case with the benefit we have set up. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the people affected by an ERTE are not unemployed. They have a job and they contribute for it. We should use the data rigorously, as they do in the countries of our environment. It seems to me that we already have too many people standing still; let us avoid confusing citizens. A worker affected by an ERTE is not a stopped person. Here and around the world the goal of ERTE is precisely to avoid unemployment. Let me be honest with you. I believe that we have made a certain success of this path, which could have meant an unimaginable destruction of employment; think that we would not have arbitrated this measure. I strongly affirm that this is not a triumph of this Government, it is a triumph of this country. It is a triumph of the social partners who have agreed with this Government to implement this measure. It is true that many relationships of a temporary nature have failed to incorporate them into the ERTs' suspense mechanism. We have once again been overwhelmed by the overreaction of a labour market hit by precariousness and which once again throws thousands of temporary workers into the streets in the face of the first problem. This is another teaching for when this is over. We cannot continue to maintain this level of precariousness that plagues all sectors, even those who heroically play life in the front line of hospitals. A nurse or a doctor cannot be allowed to link contracts for weeks without security and stability that will allow them to do their job well. [[Applauds]] All this determines our inability to contain the hemorrhage of job destruction in crises, unlike what happens in other countries in our environment not so exposed to the scourge of precariousness. Maintaining a temporary bag of the dimensions of Spanish, which is not compared in Europe, means that we lack effective tools to contain part of the destruction of employment when turbulence occurs. The sad fate of our country's temporary workers - most of them, by the way, linked to contracts that do not respect the law - is to be at the forefront of the unemployment caused by the crises. We therefore welcome this experience which has unfortunately been repeated so many times in our country and which explains our weakness in tackling economic problems and their impact on the labour market. In this, as in all other crises, the old resists to disappear and the new has just been born. Let's change this dynamic. Let's move on to the new thing. Let's get out of here not only by containing the destruction of employment; this is not about us getting out of here by ensuring job stability, giving our workers and our companies security, lasting and reliable links that do not allow hundreds of thousands of people in precarious lives to leave work to the first of change and stay out of the ordinary aid arrangements. They know that we have been sensitive to this situation to the point of designing, as has been said in this House, a specific unemployment benefit for temporary workers and also for domestic workers. But what we want is not to have to continue acting in an exceptional way. As you know, we arrived at the ministry very questioned and flying the flag of stability and, after this experience of the crisis of the COVID19, let me tell you that we waved it even more and if it fits more forcefully. Today is not the time, but this House, believe me, will speak again of precariousness in the future, and it will do so to choose to resolve it. This is the commitment of the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy, this is the commitment of the Government of Spain. We are certainly in a collective effort that has a well-defined mission: to put an end to the health crisis and to do so without damaging employment. And in order to strengthen this objective in which I have no doubt that all Members of the House will agree, the complementary measures of Royal Decree 9/2020 which I now defend are guided by common sense. They are, if I may, almost compulsory measures, logical deductions I dare say. I will list them and give you a brief justification for each of them. As for the first of these - look, I stop here -, today the Canarian government, the canarian labour authority, has stopped an ERTE from the most important employer of private health. Note the importance of the first of the measures contained in this royal decree, the protection of health avoiding the closure of health and social facilities. If we want to protect the health of citizens, the main objective of this Government, let us begin by mobilizing all the health and social resources available to us. It is not possible for the ERTE system, as the Canarian labour authority has done today, to be used to detract resources from the system at a time when the health of our compatriots requires every effort to be able regardless of whether that effort is public or private. This is why the first step of the Royal Decree-Law is to maintain the activity of health centres and care centres for the elderly. As I said a moment ago, unfortunately some of these centers had already expressed their intention to evade their responsibilities, which justified the prompt and immediate response of Royal Decree 9/2020, whose validation I ask you today. Prioritizing health requires everyone's contribution and it is not permissible to stop providing services when they are most needed. The second of the measures seeks to prevent the force majeure and the rest of the economic, technical, organisational and production causes that give rise to ERTEs from justifying dismissal. This is another binding consequence of the kind of turbulence we are going through. It seems clear that COVID-19 is a transitory, more or less persistent, but transitory circumstance, and that the Government's reaction to it has been to make temporary adjustment mechanisms generously supported by public funds available to both workers and companies themselves. Measures and aid for the coronavirus are to avoid redundancies; it makes no sense to receive aid and destroy employment. Let me also draw on my experience. If this had not been said by Royal Decree 9/2020, which we now validate, I am sure that the judges would have said so at the first opportunity before them. We already have a similar experience with 52 d). We are faced with a technical derivative of the extension of ERTEs rather than anything else, but we are also faced with a norm that imposes a standard of conduct, one of these norms that is said to be socially responsible. It is not the time to fire, but to endure and the state is a key pillar that will do everything in its power to help companies and workers also endure. Let me be clear, we will not tolerate an irresponsible minority, an irresponsible minority taking advantage of this pandemic to thwart our efforts, demonstrating socially unacceptable behaviour. I know that I am addressing a few, a very few, but I want to convey a strong message to those few: this is not the time to say goodbye. And I know we're not alone in this way of acting. Our neighbours in Europe, uniquely Italy, a country, by the way, with an enormous legal-laboral tradition, which has been a constant source of inspiration for us, have followed this same path. At the time, we have gone a step further, to the extent that, as you know, Italy has adhered to the prohibition of dismissing only economic causes and we have extended it, in addition to economic assumptions, to the causes of force majeure, to organisational and production techniques. In short, we are faced with a compulsory, technically essential and socially necessary measure, which is the most important, necessary, by which we ask companies to make use of the exceptional measures decreed and - I repeat - not to fire them. This same purpose of maintaining employment is the one that justifies another of the contributions of the Royal Decree-Law. This is Article 5, which, as you know, provides for the interruption of the calculation of the maximum duration of temporary contracts. Here too, we strongly want to tackle and distance any impact of COVID-19 from the dynamics of the duration of labour relations. Temporary contracts will also enter into that parenthesis that we test as a labour response to the health crisis. Your times will resume once this crisis is over. I insist on our purpose: we want to make a parenthesis that allows us to go back to where we had left it before the COVID-19 impacted our lives. So far, the substantive measures of Royal Decree 9/2020, whose validation we intend. There are also very important additional contributions to the rule. If I may say so, these are as decisive contributions as the previous ones, for example, so that the mechanism of the temporary employment regulation dossiers will work fat and allow workers to access the unemployment benefit with agility, even in circumstances such as the current ones, which, as you know well, decimate public staffing and generally prevent face-to-face care. Something - let me express it in this Congress - that makes worthy of praise the tireless task of thousands and thousands of public employees who, beyond their obligations, are leaving their skin to quickly solve the hundreds of thousands of ERTE presented, as well as the payment of public unemployment benefits. I would like to make public in this House my appreciation and that of the Government of Spain. I would also like to express our appreciation to the labour authorities of the whole State and to all the staff of the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy, in particular that of SEPE. You are a pride for our country. The decisive measure to speed up workers' access to unemployment, the Spanish variety, is the so-called collective application for unemployment, submitted by the company to the entity managing the benefits, acting on behalf of the workers. As you are well aware, this is done by prioritizing speed, but without neglecting rigour and without penalizing the amount of benefits. I would also like to highlight the agreement reached with the financial institutions so that they can anticipate the payment of unemployment, thereby alleviating the financial burdens of the workers, without waiting for the regular payment of the payroll by SEPE, which, as you all know, always takes place on the 10th of each month. In turn, we have offered agility to the world of the social economy so that they can benefit from ERTE even if they lack the appropriate means to hold virtual meetings of their general assemblies, depositing in these cases the decision on their governing council. Once again, protecting health and offering solutions to businesses, also those that take the form of cooperatives, so decisive for this country and that they will have to contribute so much to recovery. The impact of all these flexibility mechanisms has been extraordinary in the management developed by SEPE. Of course, such a considerable deployment of formulas that prioritize the payment of unemployment, so that no one will have a bad time during this crisis, requires, if I may, control measures. This is provided for in Royal Decree No. 9/2020 and it is provided for, as is the responsibility for responsible management of public resources. The commission of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, in collaboration with other administrations, to pursue fraud in collective applications for unemployment, acts as a form of closure of the system and prevents anti-social behaviour that is tempted to take advantage of the crisis in order to obtain benefits that would be inadmissible. In short, an ambitious ERTE system, which is a key part of our labour response to COVID-19; a response, as I said, of clear European roots, in line with the priority of negotiated internal flexibility and with the support of the social partners. As for the Royal Decree 10/2020, it is a rule that sets a new level, perhaps more intense, in the state of alarm. In the last week of March, all scientific recommendations revealed the need to intensify confinement, limit the movement of people during the week to a minimum, convert every day of the week to Sunday. We are now beginning to see the effectiveness of these measures. This new level of mobility restriction, which limited activity to essential services, required a more adequate and effective figure for the holiday period of Easter. The figure of the retrievable remunerated permit provides adequate coverage at the most intense time of mobility restriction, with the exception of this restriction on essential services. Royal Decree 10/2020 provides for a detailed identification of the activities excluded from the retrievable remuneration permit. The maintenance of activities essential for the community is guaranteed, and the maintenance of activities essential for the maintenance of the company itself is also guaranteed. The formula of the retrievable paid leave is simple, but it is very effective: it allows workers, whose contracts are suspended, to continue to receive their ordinary remuneration for the time they must be confined, from 30 March to 9 April. The hours corresponding to these days of inactivity form a bag of recoverable hours that will be compensated later, until December 31 of this year. This figure of recoverable work, as you know well, is not new. In the labour legal system, for example, article 5 of Royal Decree 2001/1983 was already - let us recall - and it disappeared, as you know, from the legal system because it could not be a normal mechanism for the operation of enterprises. However, in an emergency situation such as the current one and with due guarantees, it is a very appropriate instrument. Retrievable paid leave allows the cost of the health emergency to be shared between the company and the workers. On the one hand, the company must pay its full remuneration to the worker throughout April, although for a part of the same, fifteen days, it does not provide its services. On the other hand, the worker will have to be prepared to adjust his working hours at some point until 31 December this year, in order to carry out the hours that could not be worked in April by the forced confinement. In any case, the retrievable remunerated permit does not replace the ERTE which, as you know, may continue to be requested. This is a more appropriate instrument for the moment of greater limitation of mobility and which distributes this effort between workers and enterprises. In the case of this Royal Decree-Law, a mechanism is set up to ensure that the return, if I may, of the outstanding hours is carried out in an agreed manner with the representatives of the workers, and it is also ensured that the compensation must be carried out with full respect for article 34, daily rest, weekly rest, and, of course, respect for workers' rights of conciliation. With regard to the extraordinary and urgent need, the exceptional circumstances in which the royal decrees that the Government now submits to Congress for validation are well known. The normative body that is being generated in these days via royal decrees is an emergency regulation that is based on an ordinary order designed for a situation of normality, and this, as you know, has required intense changes. All the measures of this exceptional moment are destined to disappear so that, in the end, our regulatory system will be normal again, but the fact that they are very short measures over time does not remain a peak of rigour. Every measure taken, every adjustment of our system to the health emergency situation, has been adopted quickly but gradually, taking into account the evolution of the pandemic and the instructions that have been given by the health authorities. Any other performance would have been really irresponsible. The real decrees 9/2020 and 10/2020 arise at a time of negative evolution of the pandemic. They are, therefore, real emergency decrees that we could call - if I may say so - second level, immediately prior to the second quarter of confinement, the one in which the closure has been generalized to all activities that were not essential. The Royal Decree 10/2020 sets out the rules of intense second-level confinement. It establishes the need for non-service provision in non-essential activities and creates the figure of the retrievable remuneration permit. Thus, with different strategies both royal decrees guarantee the effectiveness of the confinement and that the economy and employment also recover as soon as possible after this health crisis. I want to conclude, Madam President. Yesterday the ILO office in Spain pointed out: Since the Second World War, we did not know a picture like the one we are going to see when this health crisis came to an end. The figures we are familiar with in the international context testify to this even in countries that have not adopted social confinement measures as restrictive as those of Spain. The unemployment figures have multiplied by two or three in several European countries and the International Monetary Fund itself has recalled that there has never been a global stagnation of this size, nor in the past contexts of a global financial crisis. These perspectives should not immobilize us - quite the contrary - just make us very aware of the unknown magnitude of a phenomenon for which there are no prefabricated recipes or magic solutions. No one has the heritage of good ideas, come from wherever they come from, and at this moment we need more than ever that collective flow. We have, of course, previous experiences and we have to draw conclusions from them. Not learning from what has already been lived would be the best way to make mistakes, and answers that have not worked in the past will not work in this new scenario either. For example, the indiscriminate lowering of taxes was then a dart in the heart of our most precious good, the public. What brought us back tax policies? The dismantling of public health, the abandonment of science and a weak and weak system of protection just when we needed it the most. Austerity doesn't help us either. It is the worst possible answer, in fact, because those cuts that we already know destroy the soil on which we must build, burn the earth, and squander the possibility of growing and overcoming the difficulties. This Government has accompanied its actions to the international context in which this global pandemic operates, and has done so with a great investment effort sustained in our defence of the public. We have incorporated the expert approach, we have incorporated the recommendations of international bodies, the good practices developed in our environment, the voice of the social partners and the proposals of other political parties. Here, in this sum of forces - let me say this - there is no one left, we are very aware of it and that is what has prompted Spain to be in line with the most effective responses of other countries in our environment. The mechanism of the temporary employment regulation dossiers, the maintenance of employment and the protection of workers and their families have been identified as very positive by the Union. This security network of which Spain has been a co-promotor already operates in other countries, countries - let me also point out - with presidents and presidents who share a European parliamentary group with the majority of the political parties represented in this House. The real decree-laws that we have adopted following the declaration of the state of alarm and those that we bring to this House today are a clear indication of this will that I express here, will and determination based on dialogue. The pandemic, the need for urgent responses to very complex problems, has meant that this dialogue has sometimes not been as comprehensive as we would have liked. Remember that we have been busy raising the weekly tables of social dialogue that we had, although this week they have recovered with normality. I have already said this before, but we do not forget for a moment that the answers are in the ideas and contributions of this society as a whole, a society, the Spanish one, represented here, which has given in these days the greatest of the lessons for its cohesion, its solidarity and its courage in facing a situation as difficult as it has never been before for everyone. A few days ago the Secretary General of the United Nations, António Guterres, proposed a plan to save lives, but also to curb the hemorrhage of unemployment, and said: 'Only if we forget the political game and unite, if we understand that it is the human species that is at stake, can we overcome this'. In the big crises, Balzac said, the heart breaks or is short. I have the feeling that each and every one of us has kept our disquiet and doubts in our individual hearts and have come to the call of that greater and collective heart which is the common good and the greatness of the public; a heart that is now beating in the hands of a citizen who is acting with exemplary responsibility; a heart that is beating in the effort of our health personnel, which is guaranteeing the lives and future of our country; a heart to which this Government is going to infuse with all possible effort and determination to maintain its rhythm and vitality. I'm convinced of it. We are strong because we lean on each other and that is our engine, our impulse. Let the state act with the same height of vision as our society and let us do it together and together, because only together will we stop this pandemic, only collectively, from the public, thinking about the people of this country, we will overcome the difficulties. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u115	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I have the floor on behalf of that group, Mrs Rodríguez Herrer.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u116	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by conveying my sense of memory to all the Spaniards who have suffered and suffer the whip of this pandemic, which leaves us in these days the deep concern for the sick and the lonely cry for the dead. And my thanks to those who today, Holy Thursday, are leaving their skins working, as well as to the workers of this house, who have again been deprived, as in the investiture, of a significant holiday. Thank you very much. I rise to this rostrum to explain the reasons why our group, the People's Group, is going to vote against the validation of the two royal decrees-laws under discussion on this agenda item and from the loyalty that we owe to the Spaniards. These two royal decrees-laws show us a change of focus in their content from those of the previous days. In them, which are approved with a separation of forty-eight hours, on 27 and 29 March, Friday and Sunday, on both extraordinary ministerial councils, a series of measures are contained that not only do not bring the crisis further into our productive fabric, but make it, if possible, more costly. And making it the most expensive crisis, Your Honor, to companies is the best way to get them to have it much harder to survive. Under the justification of preserving employment, what they do is put it at serious risk because employment is facilitated by companies, you have said it before, but, finally, if they disappear, employment disappears. It is true that in a situation like the one we are suffering, the vulnerable population cannot be left out, but it is also essential not to become vulnerable to those who are not, and that is what will happen if jobs are lost, Minister, and they will be lost because their measures are just in the opposite direction to what they should be going. The first royal decree-law, in addition to other measures that we do not share in whole or in part, includes two that lead us directly to have to vote against. The first, the so-called ban on dismissal in the terms of your presentation after the Council of Ministers; that's what you said and what we heard we were hearing. He announced that the ban on dismissal had been approved and threatened employers with harsh inspections of all the documentation they were submitting at the ERTE, all of which was full of accusations and mistrust of companies, which he presented as evil people who were trying to take advantage of the situation. In the end, analyzing the published text, what is included is the non-regard of force majeure and the technical, administrative and production economic causes resulting from this crisis as justification for the termination of the employment contract or dismissal. They regulate it by law, and that's it? This, Minister, is a contradiction in itself and can lead many companies to fail and have to close. It is true that, as you said, in Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 temporary solutions are provided, but companies must be convinced, not forced, because that is like putting doors to the countryside. The data on employment and social security contributions at the end of March, which we have just heard, prove this to us and unfortunately the worst is missing. Mrs Díaz, the companies do not want to close, they want to continue, the entrepreneurs, in their vast majority small and medium, live from that, and all their approach to the future is to keep their businesses open, so they do not understand the suspicion or the mistrust or the implementation of measures inconsistent with that objective, which should be none other than that of not disappearing. By the way, Minister, temporary contracts are born of the 1984 reform, Socialist government, President Felipe González, and the ERTE, which you have praised so much, of the 2012 reform, People's Party government and presiding over Mariano Rajoy. The second measure that leads us to vote against is the content of the first additional provision, which limits the duration of ERTE based on the cases provided for in Royal Decree-Law 8/2020, stating that they cannot be extended beyond the extent of the state of alarm. Do you honestly believe that this is an appropriate measure to enable the viability of Spanish companies? Do you honestly believe that companies will want to stay in this situation of their own free will? Withdrawing the aid involved in such ERTS from them at once when the alarm state is extinguished may lead many to be unable to continue. Do you have budgetary problems, Minister, or do you want to draw funds to help the viability of those which you consider to be bad companies that are taking advantage of - excuse me, but I heard that press conference and that is what you passed on - to make other kind of policies, those of your own political programme? Are you the ones taking advantage of the crisis? This royal decree-law contains, as I said, other measures that we do not share in whole or in part, but we will request its processing as a bill and in that process we will propose the incorporation of amendments that make it more appropriate to what is now needed. Second Royal Decree-Law to be validated, Royal Decree-Law 10/2020. It is approved at an extraordinary Council of Ministers held on Sunday, only forty-eight after the previous one, and also without prior agreement with the social partners or any communication with the political parties, at least with ours, or with the authorities concerned in sufficient time to analyse the measure. A further limitation to that for the movement of persons during the period from 30 March to 9 April is suddenly agreed, prohibiting a number of activities which are considered non-essential in this period and obliging the undertakings concerned to give effect to what is called a compulsory remunerable remuneration permit. The spokesman minister, at the press conference of the next Council of Ministers, to the question of a journalist about the lack of discussion and contrast of this measure and its improvisation, replied that it was necessary to understand it because they were carrying out a dizzying job and that a tool had been approved - called this tool - innovative and imaginative. I would call it another way, and apologize for the chastity: I invite and you pay. The previous limitation was partly covered by the Government through the special ERTE, but in this case the cost lies entirely with the companies because, although the lost hours are recoverable in the complicated terms and short period of time referred to in the actual decree-law, the lost business is very difficult to recover. Ladies and gentlemen, in the event of disasters, the government has to take care of them. Its cost, in a responsible and modern country, must not fall on citizens either directly or in the medium term, as will happen if our productive fabric disappears in part. That's why you have to have the public accounts cleaned up, so that there's no need to crawl, as we've seen in the previous royal decree-law, which is the one that was discussed a while ago, and we see it in this one. The cost of this measure should not fall on companies, this is the main reason why we will vote against the validation of this royal decree-law. We can agree, and in fact we are, with the objective that it sets out in its explanatory statement, to limit mobility to the maximum - some of the autonomous communities governed by the PP had requested it - but not with the form or content. Not like that, Minister. On the other hand, the royal decree-law leaves much to be desired, from its literal tenor to its publication, from the social debate that triggered its launch to the successive modifications of its effects, either through the procedure established in its own text to the back door. Indeed, throughout Sunday we were able to see successive leaks of his text, which had not just been closed. The Council of Ministers ended, you announced that the limitation of mobility would occur from the zero hours of Monday and the State Official Gazette, in a special edition, did not publish the royal decree-law until 23:43 on Sunday. The confusion was total, as the activities concerned appeared and disappeared from the drafts. The protest was widespread, from entrepreneurs to the autonomous communities, regardless of the colour of their government, because of the urgency of its application and the lack of precision and adaptation to the Spanish productive reality. The royal decree-law defined what was called indispensable minimum activity with reference to the one held on weekends, as you said. He said, "Let's make every day Sunday. And he determined that the competent delegated authority was the Minister of Health. The Annex has 25 sections of exceptions and, as I noted, it has been extended throughout the day. Was it necessary that quickly, Minister? Couldn't you have waited until the next Tuesday? I can have my own opinion and I did not intend to expose it here, but, given the tenor of your spokesman's intervention, I will say this: with so many councils of ministers, ordinary and extraordinary, with a decree-law behind another on the same matters, will you not want to occupy time with other news? It feels like it does. On March 30, the Minister of Health already interpreted the decree and said that it was not applicable to self-employed people - of course, there was talk of remuneration -, curious explanation linked to that remuneration for compulsory permission that could only be paid to themselves, and except for trade union and employer representations for counselling services to workers and companies. There are those who have the most strength and those who have the least. Disconcertedness was important and has continued to be so throughout the whole period, which, by the way, ends today. It is still curious that today we are validating a rule that ceases to have effects today. What would happen if it wasn't approved? They're going to excuse me, but one more dip. But what is most significant are the problems that this improvisation has caused in our industrial sector, which in many cases for technical reasons cannot stop. Known are the complaints, for example, of ArcelorMittal or of certain exporting companies that saw the risk of losing the market due to their non-compliances, and the Ministry of Industry came to an end, although it was not referred to in the Royal Decree-Law. He interpreted what was essential minimum activity so as not to cause prolonged stops causing damage to the subsequent commissioning - absolutely logical, but the actual decree-law did not collect it - and something that is further removed from the approved text, such as the exception for workers in import and export activities of all products, goods and materials as they are defined as key to the supply or commitments of international contracts. Anyway, more of the same. Therefore, in addition to voting against its validation, we will ask for its processing as a bill to see if some measures can be adopted to help us get out of this crisis with the least possible damage. I conclude, but I cannot do so without bringing to this House a reflection on the great lack that has been observed in the measures that have been adopted since the state of alarm was decreed to this very Tuesday. As I said at the outset, in these royal decree-laws there is a change in the approach of measures in which the Government seems to turn its back on the needs of businesses, of job creators, but in general this position - and if it has not shared it with me the whole House has heard it this day - is much more accused in relation to self-employed workers, who have seen the actual decree-law after the actual decree-law as disregarded to their demands and unknown to their needs, self-employed workers who in many cases are at the head of small businesses without activity since 14 March and who saw that, on time, the 30th day they were charged with the social security quota and who see with great concern that, even following without obtaining income, the expiry of 20 April is dangerously close. Therefore, we request the processing as draft laws of these royal decree-laws, the one that has just been discussed and Royal Decree-law 8/2020, which was approved at the last plenary session.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u117	Mrs. Rodriguez, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u118	Yeah, I'm done. I was told fifteen minutes, but I'm done. We need to be aware of the reality of Spain. We have 3 363,000 companies, 99% of which are SMEs, which are the most vulnerable and therefore with workers who are most at risk of losing their jobs. Let us not punish them with measures that cost them in periods when they lose their income; let us not give them one hand to collect their taxes. And finally, let's be aware of our reality, as I was saying, and don't miss the shot. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, first and foremost Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the setting of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. If you'll allow me, I'll take the floor from the seat. Good afternoon, Minister of Labour and Social Economy. The dire and disastrous chain of decisions throughout the COVID-19 health emergency is reflected in the various royal decree-laws that have been presented this afternoon in plenary and that Forum will not validate because insufficient support measures for autonomous and SMEs and restrictions on measures for the operation of companies are enormous disagreements of the Government in response to its logistical failure to tackle the spread of the coronavirus. Some of us have spoken profusely about this throughout this session. They are also overrun legislation that does not respond to the great present and immediate needs of the Spaniards and even violate the Constitution. This is the case of the tenth of the legislative series, which involves an over-limiting of the prerogatives to act as if we were in a state of emergency rather than a state of alarm, in which case the Government should have requested from Congress the authorization to suspend fundamental rights such as those contained in articles 17 and 19 of the Constitution. The very gestation of some of these royal decrees-laws has turned out to be a shameful and unfortunate spectacle, improper of a serious government, filtering them to friendly means before their approval, setting the two sectors allied within the Council of Ministers and modifying them in extremis minutes before their publication in the Official Gazette of the State. Nor was it very uplifting, Minister, and improper of your career as a parliamentarian - of which some, indeed, have been witnesses and we value - the confusing press conference in which you, instead of explaining the terms of the new measures on ERTE, dragged into confusion themselves and strangers, causing disconcerting the many hundreds of thousands of Spaniards who now more than ever need clarity to face the adverse labour, social and economic situation resulting from the pandemic and the political management of the Pedro Sánchez Government. This should not happen again in the future to you or any of your colleagues in the blue bank. In addition, the Government takes advantage of all this normative gallimity to take away important economic resources from the Autonomous Communities, the case of Asturias, with the abuse committed on vocational training for employment, breaking consensus and truncating the possibilities for access to a job. It is said by a member of the community who has held the last place for years, the red light at the national labour force rate, that of Asturians who work or are looking for work. Dialogue says? If you spoke earlier of the triumph that in your opinion is the mechanism of ERTE, the substantial loss of these economic resources for vocational training for employment is an absolute setback. Not only is the State key in employment policies, but also other administrations, and uniquely the autonomous communities, are key in the development of employment in Spain. In order not to spare anyone, minister, you hide it badly. I conclude, Madam President. Forum rejects these validations and thinking of the common good, to which the minister referred, we reject them because they portray the incapacity, insolvency and irresponsibility of a government that is to the propaganda, overcome by events, always to towing and deepening the serious consequences of this health emergency. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u121	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Oblanca. Secondly, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u122	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I wanted to have a reminder for hundreds of thousands of workers who have been forgotten by the government: workers from private security companies, who are in health centres, hospitals, airports, supermarkets, people who work for hours or who have a minimum wage. Minister, my family is very big, I have ten brothers, I have sister-in-law, I have more than eighty cousins, and I have a sister-in-law who is a doctor, nieces nurses who have fallen with the coronavirus, I have an 83-year-old mother and aunts over 80, I have a brother who works in the agricultural sector, I have a husband who is self-employed, professional, I have a sister who is in an ERTE from a hotel in the Canary Islands, and I'm going to talk to her about a feeling above all. People know this is a global pandemic, it wasn't a flu, but the great doubt that citizenship has is about the speech you are making. For example, the closing decree. Either they lied to us or improvised and I don't know what's worse. In the morning, several political forces told us that they were not going to close Holy Week, that I support it, but did they lie to us or improvise? Didn't they talk to the businessmen or us because they had President Sánchez's press conference? Couldn't they delay the press conference for two hours and be able to talk about it? So, the anguish that generates my mother, my sick niece, my sister in an ERTE and I as a political spokesman is whether this government is improvising or lying. I will tell you, as Minister of Labour, the following, and I enter into the specific issues because in the Canary Islands they are very important. You may not know this, but Canaries always, like Extremadura, usually have 10% more unemployment - Andalusia, Canaries and Extremadura - in times of major crisis. That is why an employment plan was adopted and active employment policies in the Canary Islands are fundamental. And to a left-wing woman like you I'm going to tell you what money is spent on active employment policies in the Canary Islands, which you are going to take away now to pay for unemployment and which you helped to get a job. You, very lefty, very feminist, but it turns out you're going to take job money to pay for unemployment. Do you know what he was doing? To the subsidy for the recruitment of vulnerable groups, victims of gender-based violence, disability, social exclusion, special employment centres, 2700; 1600 in women, gender-based violence and disability; also in the recruitment of young people, and 24,000 young Canarians who are going to be left without that help to work; and we have 160 training centres in the Canary Islands which are very important for re-training the workforce, not only for the 2000 workers working in these training centres, but also for the 26,000 who are there. Do you know how many people are going to be affected by the 100 million that you are going to take away from the Canarian Community active employment policies? In fact, 144 000, and also in an autonomous community where 40% of employment comes from tourism. If we add to that agriculture, which is export, we are talking about 50% of employment. Zero energy, as it is called, because tourism in the Canary Islands - and today it has declared, unsuspecting, the Government of the Canary Islands - will not open until 2021. You have made some ERTE - very well - while the emergency lasts, but I tell you here today that in the Canary Islands we need ERTE to arrive at least until December. I say this because in the Canarian tourism sector it is not that the entrepreneur wants to close - as you said - nor that they have to endure, it is that, if not, they go to the creditors' competition. Secondly, the comprehensive employment plan of the Canary Islands, which we have doubts that you are going to transfer the 42 million or if you are also going to use them to pay unemployed. Do you know what it was used for? For agreements with the municipalities and lobbyists, for the municipalities to hire the people six months, so that sectors with difficult jobs could work. That is in the REF, which forms part of the constitutional framework, and it is the obligation of the Government. As for the autonomous, it is not the same an autonomous in El Hierro, in the island of La Palma, in La Gomera, in the Canary Islands, as in the street Atocha in Madrid. As for the self-employed, you've kicked forward. The only thing they have postponed is the payments, in addition to the issue of loans, when they have zero; they have to pay the rent, they have to pay the suppliers the goods they did not sell, and not only that: they have to eat and above they have to pay the fee, and they have not yet received the benefit they have to have. And these people are just an autonomous, two... I'm finishing up. Madam Minister, it is important that you start already working on the extension of the ERTE and, above all, for the Canary Islands; it is essential because, if not, we will reach 50 or 60% unemployment in this community. And one suggestion: talk to the committee of experts to see if there is a chance, as the confinement is reduced, that the day care facilities can be opened; I'm talking about zero to three years. It's much less dangerous for babies to be in a nursery than with grandparents. There are hundreds of thousands of workers, companies that will not be able to cope, and that is what will allow many women, including many men, to join the work. But, above all, in terms of health, which is the last decision, I ask you to look at it, because I have a relationship - I also have a sister-in-law who has a nursery - and I have been meeting with the Association of Children's Schools and I know that at the moment they have a lot of uncertainty. It is necessary not to confuse expectations. I'm glad the president said today that it's going to be two months of confinement, because there were people who believed what you said, that it was fifteen days, and there are people who haven't presented ERTE.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u123	Mrs. Oramas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u124	I'm done. In the Canary Islands 24 000 ERTE have been introduced, so you know, and there are 186,000 workers. But it will be stopped if these ERTEs are not extended in the tourism sector. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Vehi i Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u126	Good afternoon. I wanted to start by saying that today in Ocaña prison there is a riot, because the prisoners protest for lack of health care. And I wanted to take this opportunity to explain once again the position of the CUP in relation to prisoners and third-degree prisoners, political prisoners and sick prisoners, who, from our perspective, should be passing the confinement at home. The United Nations spokesman said We can at the previous point that this is a crisis outside the productive system and talked about catastrophe; we agree. COVID-19 is a virus, but the political management that is made of it is not a meteorological phenomenon. The spokesman for the PSOE also said that the Government is sensitive to the needs of women workers. Well, let's look at the measures that this government has taken in the field of labour, not from the dialectics they have with the right, because this places them systematically on the far left, but from the precepts that the minister has been repeating throughout her exposition regarding support for the public and the common. First of all, we want to comment that we share that you confined all sectors that were not essential to life. But Tuesday they send people back to work, with the risk they pose to the lives of thousands and thousands of workers. The second element we wanted to comment on is that with the retrievable retributable permission you carry the cost of all this behind the backs of the workers. Why do we say that? Because you equal a SME, a bread oven from a neighborhood to Endesa, Glovo, Amazon or Inditex, and that causes a lot of inequality and, above all, it is the workers who bear the burden of this. The same goes for the ERTEs. You're matching SMEs to the big multinationals, and there are hundreds of thousands of workers who don't know if today's EREs will be the EREs of the future. That the EPA and Eurostat count the people affected by the ERTE as an occupied population, it seems logical to us. However, since the sanctions you impose on companies in your decrees are minimal and refer systematically to the goodwill of entrepreneurs, how many of these ERTs are going to become EREs and therefore permanent layoffs. This brings us to the fourth point we wanted to comment on, Minister. You declare dismissals improper by COVID-19, but our question is why you do not declare them invalid. This is true, at least in relation to the literality of the decrees, and, if not, then answer me, that you also have much more time than I do. The fifth point we wanted to comment on is in relation to the self-employed. You announce a quota moratorium - do not suspend quotas, but there is a moratorium - and a suspension of supply payments for the duration of the alarm decree. This implies - we said earlier - compensation to oil companies in the State's General Budgets. I mean, you have money to transfer public income to Endesa, but you have no money to suspend quotas to the self-employed and self-employed. As for the sixth element, you announce a one-month allowance for domestic workers, which, according to UGT, if I am not mistaken, leaves out 200 000 people, because the domestic labour market is characterized precisely because it is very unformal, because it has a lot of people who are not contributing and are working in an unregulated way, let us say. You also announce changes in regularization processes for migrants and with temporary contracts in the field. Before you referred to Gramsci, and let me follow the line - at least, so the right will have objective arguments to accuse us of communists -. From our perspective, this measure is a combination of the mobilization of the reserve army and institutional racism. We agree with you, Minister, the important thing is to save lives, but it seems that there are lives worth more than others. We're done with evidence. Every day it seems more true that the people save the people and, from here and on behalf of the UPC, we would like to thank all the combative trade unionism that is currently working in the Spanish State and in our people, all that trade unionism that the Government does not call for either the Moncloa pacts or the minimum income agreement. We want to thank the combative trade unionism that does not act protecting the employer in order to preserve the quotas of power. Thank you, thank you, thank you. In our country who for the ERTE are the fighting unions. And we also want to tell people: Go to the union, the labor union, the housing union and the neighborhood union and also build cooperative, social, solidarity and just economic structures. Let us make these structures of the common strong, because this is a battle between capital and life.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, given the hours we have been here and not wanting to repeat arguments I have already been able to make in this rostrum, I will be brief. I will refer to some specific issues of the two royal decrees that you have defended. The first has to do with what is commonly known as a ban on firing in times of coronavirus, which, as I will point out right now, is not exactly so. What this decree proposes is not the prohibition of dismissal, what it does is to raise the cost of dismissal to thirty-three days per year, preventing the 20 days per year from being cut as an objective cause. We believe that it leaves out a lot of young people who have not had time to accumulate antiquity or the precarious, in general, who will be fired by paying him a small finiquito. Moreover, I will not deny that this decree has positive elements, elements of progress, although we would have liked to have seen more reflection in the decree itself than what you have said from the rostrum, for we believe that it should go beyond what has been done. I would also like to refer, as the spokesman for the UPC, to women domestic workers. We are talking about measures, but this is a very broad sector, more than 600,000 women performing their roles in domestic work, so-called domestic work, and more than 200,000 have no contractual links. They would move on to what is called the submerged economy, and for them I fear that the measures proposed here will prove to be empty, if not useless, because they will not reflect them. We therefore believe that at this point there is still much to be done. I would also like to refer to the situation of the workers, because what we have seen these days is quite scandalous. What we have seen these days is not that there is a shortage of labour, but that some still today claim that in this particularly difficult context they remain slaves in the field, and we believe that this is also denouncing. Here too, much more needs to be done than is being done. Someone probably has the temptation to say that even after having the most draconian working conditions, tougher for the working class, we continue to live a democracy. As Lenin said, in Greece the only free are the slaves. It is a matter of no slaves, but the people of the countryside are living, at least in some places, as in Huelva and other provinces - as the agricultural unions have denounced - rather harsh realities. With regard to ERTE, I would like to see special zeal placed on companies with significant profits not to welcome ERTE as an easy way out to continue to maintain powerful economic levels for themselves, not for their workers. And I also want to tell people that the ERTE are no wonder, that a beneficiary of an ERTE has not been graced with the lottery, because so, in fact, it already implies a loss of purchasing power with respect to its payroll, and, secondly, it is a sword of Damocles for when this happens, because it has no certainty that that ERTE does not become a definitive ERE or an ERE of expulsion. Therefore, go ahead with this reflection as well. With regard to the next decree, on retrievable paid leave, we do not agree with a question, and it is that in the end it is again the workers who put everything on their side. In the end, we are not talking about any gifts either from the state or from employers, but about an effort by the workers, who will have to recover once they are reinstated and I understand that in overtime. Therefore, this does not appear to be one of the favouring measures that the public authorities have taken towards women workers. In any case, they will be made to work what they have not been able to work before. And I would like to point out another issue in relation to this, for which I will set an example. According to the Alavesa employer - which is not very close to us, as you will understand - according to an internal survey of that employer - is done by the Chamber of Commerce for the Alavesa employer -, 37 % of the companies have been reduced during this time due to contagion, 93 % of them have suffered a decrease in orders, 8 % have seen their market paralyzed, 73 % have seen their orders cancelled and 42 % have been without supplies. If workers are forced to recover one hundred percent of the hours, what we are going to do is to increase the benefit of entrepreneurs, because, as a common friend, a Carlos, said, this surplus value is going to make, in respect of a time when they did not have orders, the activity is revalued much more when they do, and that is certainly not something that pursues their ministry - I am sure it is not what it pursues - but it is something that can be used in a perfidious way by those who seek to increase their benefits. I'm telling you to keep this in mind, I don't blame you or throw it in your face. I end with two considerations, and so I will keep the word to be brief. First of all, I join the words of the spokesman for the CUP in relation to the prison population; yesterday in the Health Committee I also said so. There are more than 50 000 people who are kept in Spanish state prisons on a continuous basis. Her health is severely endangered, and we adhere to the recommendations that have been made to the Spanish State by Michelle Bachelet in her role as Commissioner for the United Nations and the European Commissioner for Human Rights herself when they tell her to stop betting on punitive measures and seek measures to deal with this confinement that go beyond those that the Member of the CUP has pointed out, which have to do with the release and a confinement in her own homes. I ask you to convey this reflection, which we do whenever we can, on the whole of the population in prison to the Minister of the Interior, who is competent. Finally, I will say that there is a Basque youth organization that fights against the precariousness that is called Eragin and has a motto that says It's not what there is. I want to address all the people who think that it's not what there is, that if this crisis is up to us to pay it to the usual ones, to the lower ones, this cannot be what there is. You quoted one of the great phrases of Antonio Gramsci. I want to end by quoting another sentence from you addressed to all people who do not resign and believe that if we pay for the crisis the usual ones this is not what there is. I would just say to you, on behalf of Euskal Herria Bildu, something like what Antonio Gramsci was saying at the time: Be educated because we will need all our intelligence, be moved because we will need all our enthusiasm, be organized because we will need all our strength. [[Pronounce words in Basque]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u129	Thank you, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJPNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u130	At this point in the debate - we have already had at least ten hours, some - I ask you for a little pity at the time of the reply, Minister; if you can save it, even better. And if my fellow Members of Parliament can adjust - I see here that I have fifteen minutes - to the seven we agreed on at the Speakers' Meeting, better. I will, of course, do so and speak only of decrees. I will first refer to Royal Decree-Law 10/2020. Of course, there is nothing more surprising than Wednesday to defend a position, Friday to reaffirm that position and Saturday to say absolutely the opposite, because that is exactly what happened with this decree, and also to do - let me tell you - from immediacy and improvisation, because, if it were something that was thought and perfectly planned, well, but it was not so. It was already seen how the decree came out and when it came out, at eleven o'clock in the night; the next day people did not know exactly whether to go or not to go. It shows ignorance of what the company is, as if the blind could be closed directly. There are some types of work and even some businesses that cannot be closed, because, if they close, opening up afterwards is absolutely impossible. When they realized, they had to give twenty - four hours and go improvising and rectifying point by point, sometimes even with interpretations of the ministries, to get to where we told them. This can't be done like this, it has to be done differently. The truth is that the decree itself is made from the roof: retrievable paid permission and then they are working out the rest, when it had to be said that the decree is for the essential activities, which are this, this and this, which are regulated in this way, and from there on regulate what you would like. Technically, the decree is a real mess. If you are going to regulate something about essential activity in the future, what I ask you to do is to speak, consult and flexibly, so that the autonomous communities can adapt it to their reality, because not all economic tissues are equal nor social tissues. Please be more flexible and do not fall into immediacy, in the immediately for the next day, because in practice that is impossible to do. Of course, the confusion generated by this decree the day before it had to be implemented was absolute. So we can't vote in favour. In fact, the abstention, which is the vote we are going to adopt, takes it as a gesture, because, in the end, it is true that they had to go retouching, rectifying and responding to the positions we were commenting on and suggesting. With regard to the Royal Decree-Law 9/2020, we generally agree with it, although I believe that it will have to be revised in the future, and therefore that it is being treated as a bill is important. However, I would also like to give you some thought. The absolute closure to not being able to fire can sometimes contribute to unwanted situations. The typical example is that of the self-employed who have workers, who do not reach 75% of the losses, who cannot access an ERTE and who have to continue paying their workers, because with that 25% it is impossible to pay their workers and also their own expenses. So, what's the solution? The closure, and I don't think any of us are looking forward to that. So - I have already told your cabinet partner, Minister Calviño - that 75% has to be reviewed, and I shall tell you again now. It is curious, because there are companies - I am not going to say names - that could avoid ERTE with some layoffs, not precisely those that can be ordinary workers, and yet are prevented to do so, and even, surely, some of them forced to request some ERTE. Therefore, I think it is good that we reflect on the case study and that we can take action in the future. It is true - and I absolutely agree with that - that measures must be taken to prevent further deterioration of productive capacity, but to prevent or over-restrict the organizational capacity of companies can produce effects contrary to those which are intended to alleviate, in the end and after loss of jobs and, consequently, of purchasing capacity. In any case, in general, we agree with this decree and will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u132	Thank you, President. Good night now, ladies and gentlemen. I'll try to be brief and not settle for fifteen minutes, but for seven. I repeat this morning: as a party, we have set our goal with regard to this crisis, first, to save lives, and second, to save jobs, and this is going to be the motto that we are going to repeat in this horrible situation in which we live from the epidemic. Loyal and responsible support to the Government, but with demands, commitments, dialogue, mandatory consensus and monitoring the fulfilment of those promises, agreements, commitments and covenants. This is a health crisis that could have been delayed, but, above all, it is an economic crisis that we cannot be late to. That is why we invoke the need for such pacts of national reconstruction, of socio-economic reconstruction. From now on we have to think about the day after the crisis, it is mandatory, because, if not, we will generate insecurity and fear in the citizenry. We have the worst employment data in history since 2009, and I'm scared when I listen to TV shows that aren't exactly channels that are very unfavorable to you where you go out gurus giving figures for the day after you put your hair at the top, which talk about a level of creepy unemployment, a level of unemployment that has never had Spanish society. That's why we have to fight now. Someone has said this before me: we cannot turn the temporary employment regulation file into unemployment, it has to be a measure for the employer to endure. But these are not all the measures taken in these two royal decrees. We have to make a new policy, we have to disagree with the old policy, and we have also said so here this morning. You have to reach consensus, you have to talk to us, and for these royal decrees laws no one has called. After that, we have made demands, put forward proposals and some have been accepted. The best thing - we have already been saying - is that they are going to be processed as bills. We ask you, Minister of Labour, please, to make it easier to recover paid leave hours. Why? Because on December 31, 2020, we may find sectors where, for example, we work on shifts or with seasonal workers, who have short periods of work per year, and cannot recover. So who will bear this economic cost, the employer, after the worker has enjoyed that paid leave? That can't be. You have not distinguished - I have already said - the large enterprise, the medium-sized and the small enterprise, the self-employed and the micro-enterprise, and at this point, in particular, you have not distinguished by sector, which is absolutely fundamental. Therefore, I offer you unity, I offer you solidarity, but think that behind every business that closes is the drama of those families, but also that of the workers who are in their homes dead of fear because they believe that when the crisis ends they will not have where to go back. Therefore, you have to support the entrepreneur, and it is not worth with patches. Therefore, they have to look at the political center, they have to look at pragmatism, moderation, consensus, dialogue. We need more support commitments, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. Indeed, the flexibilisation on the recovery of paid leave, as I have already told you, but also the flexibilisation with respect to the duration of the temporary employment regulation files, because you talk about a parenthesis and gives the feeling that you believe that when the state of alarm is no longer extended that parenthesis is going to be closed and here nothing has happened and we will return to the situation immediately before. No, after that parenthesis, which I hope will close, what there are are suspensive points. It is not worth clicking your fingers, neither those of the Minister of Economics nor those of the President of the Government, it is not worth doing so and it is already: the companies go ahead, nothing has happened, the suppliers remain in their place, the customers remain in their place and tomorrow I start to make money again; the workers return and then everyone works and already is. That's not gonna happen. How do you in the Decree-Law make the temporary employment regulation file conditional on the exact duration of the state of alarm? Be flexible, because entrepreneurs, long after the health crisis is over, will find it difficult to recover from the economic crisis. That is why I say to you that what we want is to dispense with ideology and lead them to the management of problems, without dogmas and without ideologies, to move away from unilaterality and reach consensus, not to use populist formulas, but moderation. And it is not a blank check, I repeat it again; we will demand responsibility with the Spaniards, with everyone, with the workers and with the entrepreneurs, because there are no good and bad!, as you seemed to say in some very unfortunate statements that you made and that you have repeated here again, although, of course, you have had to recheck them: Well the entrepreneurs are bad, but only a few are bad. Well, that's not what you said! You were criminalizing entrepreneurs and practically saying that all entrepreneurs in this country are scoundrels, that they are going to fraudulently take over the temporary employment regulation dossiers! For whoever does so, for him, is not going to be the majority; it is not going to be the majority. They need me to back them up. I begin with Decree 10/2020. Turns out the paid leave ends today! That is to say, what we vote on, as the decree-law unfolds its effects until the moment when it has been validated or repealed, because the paid leave the workers have already had. If someone votes no, that has been what we have valued in our group, would the possibility, on the part of the entrepreneur, of recovering those hours be suspended? It seems something responsible that we support this royal decree-law with an affirmative vote. But we urge her, truly, to call us, not to release the decrees at eleven and a half at night. It has already been said here before, and I am not going to insist very much on it, at eleven and a half all pending in the Official State Gazette; workers and employers pending the next day had to lift the blind. Considering, moreover, that if their sector was not well known, because at times it was confusing, if it was in the essentials or the non-essentials, they could not leave the house and they could find themselves with a fine for a misinterpretation of a bad decree-law - poorly explained as to the wording - of the services that were considered non-essential. So please don't improvise! Call us, we want to collaborate, we want to help! However, we cannot vote in favour of Royal Decree-Law 9/2020, Minister of Labour, we cannot. We can't because he's cheating on us. Look, I've been destined for many years in labor jurisdiction, and I read Labor Law because I love Labor Law, I love it! And all of life there has been a struggle on the left to end the dismissal for objective reasons and refer only to the causation with any compensation. They're taking advantage of an epidemic to put their ideology above the law. They're taking advantage of the pandemic to do their show! Look, if you read the doctrine you will realize that precisely the doctrine justifies the existence of dismissal for objective causes in crisis situations. Really, do not tell me that you imagine or believe that the judges of the Social of Spain will make sentences that would not admit dismissal for objective reasons, for God!, because we have not had a pandemic, we have not had an epidemic! You say there are precedents. Tell me what precedents of an epidemic on whether dismissal is due to force majeure or objective causes! There can be no such precedents. And don't give up the power that judges have to interpret the law. But it is that, moreover, it has also been said here, you deceive the workers, because you come out saying: We have forbidden the entrepreneurs to fire. No, they've banned entrepreneurs from firing with 20-day compensation! Other speakers have also said so! You can fire with thirty-three days recognizing the improper dismissal, opting for compensation and paying this compensation, which, on the other hand, the big company that you fight so much will give you the same, it will mean very little. Who's it going to affect? The small business again and the self-employed again will be affected by this; it will have to close its business; the workers will have nowhere to go back. They're going to turn these measures into unemployment. You protect temporary workers as well, and we ask that from the very beginning, to a degree that we consider good: the suspension of temporary contracts. That is why we abstain; that is why we do not vote against it. It's not a receipt, Minister of Labour, that Mr. Garamendi goes on television saying he finds out about these things by the BOE. These are the famous social partners, not only the unions; they are also the employers. Talk to both of you, please. I have already told you to make the ERTE more flexible; I have already told you that you do not suspect evil entrepreneurs, that entrepreneurs and workers have to be absolutely united. I explained the abstention. I beg you, I almost demand you, please, call us, dialogue, dialogue, call us, we want to help, we want to support, with loyalty, with demand, with responsibility; you will have us on your side, but if you want to impose ideological or dogma things on us you will never have us on your side.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the BNG warned from the very first moment that this social and economic crisis caused by the epidemic of the coronavirus could not be paid once again by the same, the workers, the popular classes, and that is why we advocate for strong and determined measures to protect employment and labour rights. The government chose to favour ERTE rather than really forbid layoffs and support companies to maintain wages, and even here they ended up yielding to business pressures and eliminating the initial guarantee of job maintenance for six months after ERTE because Royal Decree 11/2020 says this should be understood as the company's will to maintain employment. Will, no obligation. The truth is that all this sequencing of decisions provokes at least three different situations in the field of work: that of those people, especially with temporary and ETT contracts, who had already been dismissed before 14 March, that of those who passed to the ERTE, already more than 200 000 in Galicia, with loss of wages and holidays, and that of those who have to recover the unworked hours, and unfortunately a fourth, that of the workers who are going to be dismissed. Yes, dismissed, because despite all the propaganda deployed the reality is that you in Royal Decree 9/2020 do not prohibit dismissal, you simply go on to consider it improper dismissal, which is positive, of course, but unsatisfactory. You yourself recognized it in this rostrum when you asked entrepreneurs not to fire you. Did he ask or forbid? It's clear: Ask why it doesn't forbid. Therefore, the last thing you should do is create false expectations that have nothing to do with reality. Beyond these decrees the BNG is concerned about the ways they seem to choose to get out of this crisis. Now you are talking about re-editing the Pacts of Moncloa, a reference to that great economic and social agreement which, from our point of view, is not at all the way forward. The 1977 pacts that the PSOE, the Communist Party, the Workers' Commissions and UGT agreed with the last managers of the dictatorship entailed loss of purchasing power for the workers, precariousness, free dismissal and, at the political level, limitation of the changes of silence that was necessary to truly break with the dictatorship. They assumed for the peace of the post-Franquists, quickly converted into democrats, to limit the profound political transformations that society demanded for a true democratic break, and especially to close the way to the growing popular demand of the right of self-determination of nations such as Galicia that we are part of that State. The question is: What do you now want to agree with that increasingly ultra right or with that ultra-Spanishist right that is increasingly uncompromised, heir to the dictatorship?, those backward rights that call socialcommunist measures that are far behind those adopted in other European countries? For those rights, when it comes to the rights of workers and peoples, very little seems to them. Little does they think it's excessive. For us and I assure you that also for the Galician workers affected by this crisis, very little will always be very little and the unfair will always be unacceptable. To be honest, the social protection measures they have adopted seem to us very few and also, in some respects, unfair. That's why we're going to abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u135	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u136	Thank you, Madam President. This statement is going through the whole debate today - it's already a little old, but it got fashionable a while ago - that we have to have debates without ideology. It was already fashionable in the 1990s that discussions had to be held without ideology because in reality history had ended and the next step was to close the parliaments, because for what we are going to discuss, let the technicians do it between them. I think anyone who doesn't recognize that he has an ideology is actually trying to hide it. Of course, debates in parliaments are ideological! Welcome! This is the only place where they are ideological, in the rest of the places the order and command of those who have more power or privileges is imposed. Mr Garcés, the spokesman for the People's Group, said earlier that we are in a liberal economy based on individual freedom. No, not the first or the second. It is not based on individual freedom because the freedoms that depend on one's money are privileges, and because I believe in a republican concept of freedom by which one is free when one has the conditions not to depend on the whim of another. But it's not exactly a liberal economy either. I always get the feeling that when we say neoliberals or give them a little bit the same or it's almost a compliment. It is a kind of neoliberalism of the funnel: it is a neoliberalism in which, when it goes well, the richest part of society - there is a magnificent book that just ended up being called The Secession of the Rich - and they don't pay taxes, they don't belong to their countries, they don't use public services and they're going to live as far away from people as possible, but, when it goes wrong, debts and losses are socialized and then we do remember the State, and there we do remember society. It is a kind of socialism for you and save yourself who can for the rest of the world. Why do I say that? Because we began to discuss the paralysis of essential activities when the paralysis of essential activities put some people as canyon meat of the contagions, and we said: We must paralyze them so that the most vulnerable people do not continue to travel overcrowded or do not continue to go out to work so that one gains a lot by contagion. It was a good decision to paralyze them. It took us three weeks. They've been noticed for three weeks, but it was a good decision to paralyze them. However, we said: Once we have paralysed the non-essential activities of the economy, the only way that confinement does not become a fear of unemployment or helplessness is through crystallized social cooperation in institutions, i.e. that the State intervenes and protects. And that's true- more spokesmen have remembered - that the strongest defenders of the invisible hand should be in the bathroom because nobody said anything and everyone recognized that in the bad have to be the state and have to be the institutions. Now, on this second front of battle, not against the fear of the virus but against the fear of helplessness, is where we believe the Government is going a little behind events. We will vote in favour of Decree 10/2020, which paralyzed economic activity, taking care of those who stop with paid leave, of workers who stayed at home. We are voting in favour and we would like the rules to be extended: we do not think it sensible to send people back to work and public transport on Tuesday, press those who press. We'd like it to spread out. However, we believe that Decree 9/2020 is insufficient, leaving millions of Spaniards in the dark. There are many measures that we value positively. We appreciate positively, I will not deny you, for example, the speeding up and promotion of ERTs, it seems to me very good that temporary workers can continue to receive an ERT, even if they finish their contract, that is very good and I think they have made a very good decision, or that for indefinite workers they do not compute the unemployment calculation while they are receiving an ERT. But the problem is that if very courageous and determined measures are not taken, this crisis will end up paying the usual ones. There are more than 4.5 million temporary or precarious workers in Spain, which is one of the major problems that our economy has, which we are trying to get out of the 2008 crisis with wage devaluation, with more adjustment and with more precariousness and, then, when the next crisis comes, this, which is nobody's fault, what we should not do is stumble twice with the same stone because it catches us much weaker and turns out that these 4.5 million temporary workers cannot pay for broken dishes. It turns out that in the fourteen days that go from the state of alarm, 14 March, to these decrees, on 27 March, hundreds of thousands of workers are fired, they stay on the street, and they are almost always the weakest, they are almost always the most vulnerable. Our first problem is that this decree does not include retroactive measures and, therefore, leaves out the weather to all those who have already happened to them and to all of them cannot be given the answer that we are late because the dismissal did not arrive late, poverty and precariousness always arrive and the invoices always arrive, but who cannot be late in this case is the State. Secondly, today, and you know it, Minister, in Spain you continue to say good-bye. Every day you keep saying good-bye, and one would say: well, how will you keep saying good-bye if the dismissal is forbidden? Because dismissal is not forbidden, dismissal has been a little, not enough because the problem, gentlemen of the People's Party, is that this is not a thing of good or bad intentions. It turns out that you, who are masters of punitiveism, when we talk about labor law, say that the problem is that we consider entrepreneurs good or bad. Neither good nor bad, right; neither good nor bad, rules for everyone to comply with. To me who gives more if entrepreneurs are good or bad, as if workers are good and bad! That there is a right and that the rules are complied with. For what? So that we can recover economic construction, so that we can rebuild our country's economy, not on the basis of wage devaluation, but on the basis of competitiveness, the diversification of the economy, not always adjusting below. You may have decreed, you may have stated in the decree that the dismissal was null, but, instead, you made it inappropriate and, therefore, it was a little more expensive but, however, it continues to fire and that means that many people are still left out of the weather. It has been said before, and I say this at all speed, with regard to the self-employed: they need to be relieved of costs, rent costs, machinery costs; they need to ensure that the banks are using state guarantees to give credit to those who really need it; they need to be suspended from the April quota so that they do not pass as happened to them with the March quota and they need, man, that 75% of the losses that are put in order to benefit from the measures is very good if your invoices 10 000 but, what if you invoice 1000? Do you have to wait until you've lost 75% to take the measures? And I close with one question: all these measures have to be paid by someone, and this is like ideology, the one who doesn't say it is already saying who pays it. As for all these means, in which in many cases the state advances and does so courageously and assumes many costs, for example, in the ERTE, if resources are not mobilized, we already know what they are going to be; they are going to be either debt or cuts. It is good to ask Europe, and we have said this - and I hope the right, which is so patriotic when it comes to insulting other peoples of the Spanish State, to join patriotism in demanding that the financial powers do not trample on Spanish sovereignty - it is good to demand money from Europe, but money must be mobilized here. Without a fair tax reform, which will make those who have the most contribute, at least as their European partners do, we are afraid that some of these changes can be converted into debt - and therefore a debt crisis - or cutbacks. Madam Minister, I said earlier, we expected more from the Government and we expect more from the Government, we are not going to accompany this decree, we are not going to prevent it and we continue to say that the only solution to the crisis of the coronavirus and the subsequent economic crisis is a plan of national reconstruction with social justice, which for us passes centrally through the ecological transition and green employment. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u137	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Rufián Romero has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will also try to be brief, although two royal decrees are quite dense and important but for the appreciation I have for almost all of you I will not extend this plenary beyond more than ten hours. A previous one: to support, as it cannot be otherwise, the demands made by my colleagues Óscar Matute and Mireia Vehí, Bildu and the CUP, as far as the prison population is concerned, especially our comrades unjustly imprisoned. From here a hug, companies and companies, and denounce the threats of a few days ago, more peculiar to disco thugs than to judges of the Supreme Court. It's a real shame. Madam Minister, we will make proposals to you, as always, socialcommunist proposals, as you like ABC and VOX. The first of these has already been said: reduction of layoffs. They announced it, but they didn't do it. You present the following, and I read literally: You will not be considered as a justifiable cause of dismissal the situations of force majeure and the economic, technical, organizational and production causes in which the measures of suspension of contracts and reduction of hours envisaged are supported. Translation: You do not cancel or prohibit layoffs, as you announced, you transform layoffs into improper during this confinement. For everyone to understand, it is not considered prohibited to fire, it is considered inappropriate to fire. Besides, not retroactively. What happens, Minister, for example, to the first wave of layoffs? Clearly, from our point of view, it is not enough for many of the measures, it is not enough to recommend not to fire, it is not enough to speed up the payment of the benefit and to ensure that it does not affect the payment of the future benefit, nor is it even enough to declare it inappropriate to fire. It is enough to give the workers of this country the social and moral security that they will not lose their jobs because of an abuse of desalinated entrepreneurs during this confinement. And that just goes through the ban. By the way, a great way to avoid all these debates would be for you to take advantage of some of these royal decrees to repeal labour reform once and for all. I take the opportunity to warn you that Esquerra Republicana will analyze each and every one of the ERTE presented and accepted so far. There are certain ERTE that would squeal enormously. It can't be that companies that until just over a month ago were economic torpedoes, were the Silicon Valley of Spain, suddenly have to present an ERTE because they can't hold a lung for more than twenty days. Something's not working. The second main proposal we make to you - here I do want to go a little more into detail, because we think it is very important - is as ambitious as it is necessary. Unfortunately it has had to arrive a pandemic so that some people may sound good or something can be possible in what they are working on - I want to remember them - three companions to whom I greet from here: Maria Dantas, Najat Driuech and Ana Surra. For me and my party, above all, it is a pride to have them. I'll explain. Today only in Catalonia - only in Catalonia - one in five deaths by or with coronavirus is in an elderly residence, 646 since March 15, and it is estimated that 1261 more residents live together infected, out of a total of more than 64,000 patients. We are talking about that 191 residences have positives of a total, only in Catalonia, of 1073 centers. These residences have 75 000 professionals, of whom only today and only in Catalonia 3469 are already isolated, are positive workers, and each day the numbers increase. If the hospitals, if the health is on the verge of collapse, the elderly residences exceeded it days ago. The situation is dramatic. Socio-health professionals are missing and will be missing. So we propose to you the express regularization of how many people migrated in a situation of administrative irregularity there is, as well as the approval of how many degrees of degree or training cycle in Medicine, Pharmacy, Dentistry, Nursing, Physiotherapy, Social Assistance or any other area of care of the people have. The premise is very simple: to fill this crisis with nurses, doctors, assistants, and not military. And above all, that some papers are not an obstacle to it and do so permanently. To regularize these people during this crisis by the time he comes to fire her, it would not only be racist, it would be inhuman. If health collapse and humanity are not enough criteria for some of you, I recommend that you read Article 127 of the Aliens Code, which already provides for express regularizations in situations such as this in a tabloid manner, and it is a code that applauded and approved some of the patriots that we see here today. We simply ask you to apply the law; a law that, by the way, as you know, Republican Left has always advocated repealing, under a very clear premise: there is no illegal human being. One example: do you know that they are doing the keeping of Barcelona, those who are usually beaten - no matter what government, no matter what town hall - in the streets? They are making masks and robes for people with few sewing machines in a local Barcelona. That's what the keepers of Barcelona are doing. The third proposal we make is that the unemployment benefit watch should stop. We ask you to take note; to the extent that it is now literally impossible to find work, this time should not be taken into account in the recovery of unemployment. The fourth measure is to extend, because we believe that labour protection measures are insufficient, to workers employed on fixed-term contracts. If it is already a type of precarious work among the precarious, not to protect them now, not to protect them anymore would be to condemn them definitively. By the way, if anyone has doubts - as we are from the left we are used to, we always have to justify where we get the money for our proposals - two ideas: the EUR 60 billion from the rescue to the bank and, above all, the USD 100 million from Saudi commissions. I end up with something unusual in politics, which is to congratulate you, Minister. Beyond the discrepancies that we have and that we will surely have, I wish to congratulate you. I think it's important that politics or politics have not a political science manual in their chests, but a heart, and that they believe it. I believe that at least you believe it and, above all, it shows something important in politics, which is what makes the difference: communication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u140	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I wish to show all our affection and solidarity, as it cannot be otherwise, with the people who are still sick, who are sick because of this pandemic and with the families of the people who, unfortunately, have died. Our thanks also go to all those working people who, for a low wage, are guaranteeing the functioning of our country, at risk of their lives and integrity to take care of and protect us. The first message: we are sure that everything will be fine. We are indebted to you and in this parliamentary group we are committed, as always, to working to improve your lives now and when the emergency is over. And I say this today, which is the 43rd anniversary of the last legalization of the Communist Party of Spain; the third legalization and I hope, given the environment, that this time it will be the final one and they will not have to legalize us again. [[Applauds]] Today we have to validate two royal decree-laws that are weapons of our people against the pandemic. That is why our vote is going to be favourable and we are calling for the vote to be favourable to the whole House. We congratulate the minister on this work because Royal Decree-Law 9/2020 contains more measures to ensure that this crisis is not paid for by the working people. And I say more because new measures are being adopted in each Council of Ministers and also by those political forces which they always find insufficient. I ask you to see the accumulated and to wait for the next Council of Ministers, where measures will continue to be adopted; that is, the opposite of what has been usual in Spain in one of the previous crises, where workers have always paid. That is why we congratulate the minister, because it was forbidden to lay off with indemnities of misery during the health emergency. In addition, we and we hope that this measure can be maintained after the emergency and we will work on it. We congratulate her on the fact that the temporary contracts that have been suspended will continue to be terminated during the emergency, as, as the minister has said, 70% of the employment lost in March has been temporary contracts. We welcome the guarantee that the activities of health and social services centres will be maintained, which is also very important and is thanks to this decree; and that measures will be taken to pursue fraud in the ERTE because it is not possible, it is not correct, to fire companies when they are receiving aid because that is their raison d'être. We also welcome the fact that cooperatives are speeding up the process of benefiting from social support measures, and that the processing of unemployment benefits for workers affected by ERTE or contract reductions is speeding up. Madam Minister, these measures are admired across Europe unanimously, they are balanced. We encourage it to take steps to ensure that all such aid is collected from the Government as soon as possible; to monitor the banking system because all workers have to benefit quickly from these measures. Let us be vigilant in ensuring that these guarantees made available to the business sector serve to ensure that all workers receive these aid quickly. We also validate today the Royal Decree-Law 10/2020 which establishes the temporary cessation of non-essential productive activity, which is a measure that has requested all political forces - I will not quote the various declarations - unanimously. It was a measure that had to be agreed because the companies could have approved it using article 34.2 of the Workers'Statute and did not or could not do so. It is a stoppage through a retrievable paid leave, i.e. it is not paid by the companies, it is paid by the workers' efforts. And remember, in a country that is bored to perform overtime that is not paid - not paid, it is practically national sport - and, despite that, the workers are going to recover these overtime so that this permit is a permit that they, the workers finally pay. But we and we are asking for an effort from those who have the most, who are the companies that have benefited in the years 2018 and 2019, because we are facing an exceptional measure and an exceptional situation to guarantee the health of workers, of the whole society, to prevent the expansion of the pandemic and also to maintain the maximum of economic activity, which is now considered essential. And in the face of discrepancies about what can be considered essential, this group and I believe that the Government is prepared to engage with any political force to outline the content of that essential activity. We send a message to the companies to be quiet with this parliamentary group, because this parliamentary group defends and will defend the industrial sovereignty of our country, the recovery of industrial sovereignty. And in the face of stateless companies that relocate, that do not want to pay taxes and that abound in tax fraud, we will do everything possible to make the domestic industrial sector stronger and more jobs are created in our country, but for that we have to pay taxes. Don't worry, I would like to clarify that in this country corporation tax is only paid by profit-bearing companies; the profit-free company doesn't have to pay corporation tax. What you can't do is propose the miracle of multiplication of breads and fishes. Miracles don't exist. If you do not collect tax, if you do not pay those who have profits, it is impossible to bear this situation. We are facing a health emergency and our main objective is to protect the health of an entire people, not of some people and not of others, of an entire people. It is not acceptable at this time to make politics with death or lie instead of focusing on taking steps to resolve the situation. Anyone can be wrong, but no one will be forgiven one more lie. It provokes indignation the effort of some to multiply shock and fear in a society beaten to exhaustion in the last few weeks. And we've suffered enough sickness and death, there's no need for people to search for, invent and disseminate even more coffin photos. After successive cuts in social budgets and health, the clear illness that has come to us, what they expected, but that no one uses a tragedy to lie for political interest. These days we have suffered from countless deaths in deposits that have had to be quickly improvised. No one has hidden that, no one has ignored it. Unworthy action was not necessary to circulate photos of deaths in shipwrecks in Italy or of deaths in hospitals in other countries as if they were victims of the pandemic in Spain. No one should have been so unworthy as to manipulate a picture of the Great Way filled with coffins, it's an indignity. Or in the face of the immense drama of the lack of protective equipment in Spain, no one should have been so vile as to broadcast a video of warehouses full of photocopying paper packages and say that they are protective equipment that this government allows them to leave Spain. While the Government and the institutions have put in place the greatest health and social effort ever known in the face of an emergency, others dedicate their efforts and resources to setting up a criminal organization of the bull and the lie, which works intensely for the sole purpose of destabilizing the institutions and attacking the Government of all Spaniards by expanding lies to the four winds. I will remind you of a recent car from a social court in Madrid that says - literally -: In calamitous situations it is necessary the unity of action, in it lies the authentic patriotism. In a situation of war - in which fortunately we are not - the disinformants, those who demoralize and demotivate the civilian population are sentenced for treason to the most serious penalties for connivance with the enemy. The social judge of Madrid says so. I hope that all available efforts and resources will be applied only to save lives, to collaborate with the emergency and with this Government, not to cause more pain than the pandemic itself already causes. I hope that you will leave so much hatred and be able to support all our institutions, not only the Government, all our institutions, in the most difficult trance that Spain has suffered in the last few decades, even if only for a few weeks. We prefer to show the photos of life instead of the photos of death, the pictures of the people to whom our precarious and poorly paid health professionals save, we prefer the photographs of those who are cured every day, of those who do not get sick thanks to emergency measures and confinement. Photos of those who can still retain their employment or income thanks to the fact that the groups we support the Government continue to work to ensure a dignified life for our compatriots with these decrees that we come here today to validate, to save employment and economic activity, to adopt measures such as these that allow them to leave the emergency. That is what this Government is doing, whose actions have been commended and acknowledged by well-known experts. I tell you now that Imperial College London maintains that the foresight measures in Spain have saved the lives of at least 16 000 people; and I am no longer going to repeat what has been said about the World Health Organization, which has obviously not been taken by the evil Chinese, or much less; I have not heard such a crazy thing in my life. We ask the opposition to do as the democratic opposition does in other countries of the world, to offer hope and collaboration; say, even once: everything will be fine. Think that in a few months or years you will be asked by your loved ones: and what did you do to make it all right? I wish then I had no one to be ashamed of. Today they support the validation of these royal decree-laws. And today, as I have said several times, health; today more than ever much health to all our people and with confidence because everything will go well. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Santiago. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, today, Holy Thursday of the year 2020, we are at a momentous moment; after a month of health crisis, two additional very important crises are opening up to us: an institutional crisis and an economic crisis. I will briefly record here how serious the attack by the Government and its allies on democratic institutions seems to us, which is a way of fuelling the institutional crisis, as our President, Santiago Abascal, rightly pointed out this morning. As for the very worrying way in which you are managing the health crisis, I refer to the masterful interventions of our Dr Steegmann in this House. Therefore, in my speech today, I will strictly stick to the economic crisis that threatens Spain, whose seriousness is perhaps undervalued and, of course, its consequences for employment. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us have no doubt, Spain is facing the worst economic crisis at least since the Civil War. We have been saying for a long time that the economic impact of this pandemic may be the most important shock that remembers any Spaniard under 100 years of age. Its consequences could be temporary, but they can also be devastating, and they will be if we are not able to make decisions that protect our economy and if, in rebuilding the country, we find that there are no more companies or SMEs or self-governments capable of producing because the crisis and the measures decreed by the Government have taken them forward. This is the context, urgency and significance of this debate. And the debate is especially important because two opposing and hardly compatible models are contrasted here: the communist model, which aims to punish for then expropriating the productive fabric, and the defence of freedom model, which aims to preserve the productive fabric in times of crisis and promote its growth afterwards. It is so simple: with its model the crisis will be very harsh and with unpredictable consequences; with ours, the prosperity generated will guarantee existing employment and create new opportunities for the future. That is why, Minister, the VOX Parliamentary Group is going to do today what one of its colleagues in the Council of Ministers would probably do if it could act freely, which I am sure Minister Calviño did in the Council of Ministers with the real decrees-laws 9/2020 and 10/2020 that is to reject them. And since we are a responsible and serious group, what we will do next is to review the alternative measures proposed by VOX and which would lead Spain to a better future. Let us be clear, this government does not believe in freedom, this government does not intend to promote prosperity, and it is not easy to understand why, but some of you have grown in hatred and resentment towards those who create jobs and the workers who prosper, perhaps because the only thing you, the lounge communists, believe in is 'expropie', and what better way to expropriate the Spanish economy than to lead it first to ruin, then to rescue the Spaniards with generous payments of basic universal income from the state. And on top of it they claim to be supported. You are like pirates who sink a great ship in good condition and then pretend to thank the shipwrecks for throwing them a lifeboat. Unfortunately, you who have grown up with great contempt for early-morning Spain, who have never visited a productive centre or on the school excursion, who hate those who are striving precisely to keep you with their taxes, you are the ones who are winning the battle to Mrs Calviño; and look at how sorry I am for her, because we can disagree in many things, but at least we have a certain respect for her and I wish her more triumphs than defeats in the following councils of ministers. I don't think it's that much to be desired by those who share a table with her in the cabinet, nor are they loyal or discreet. That is why all Spain knows that with these royal decrees Pablo Iglesias won and Mrs. Calviño lost, and with her any hope of sensibility was lost in a government, already without compromises, communist. One day, soon, the socialist base will do as its party's veteran leaders already do, it will ask Pedro Sánchez to account for why the old Spanish Socialist Workers' Party has surrendered and been dragged away by the inexperience, ignorance and ineptitude of the Adamists who have nothing solid to contribute to a government and do add so much risk to the mere survival of our economy. The president's confession was true but incomplete: with Pablo Iglesias in the government he would not sleep quiet in the Moncloa, but he could not sleep quiet productive Spain either, because the same night of the approval of these royal decrees Iglesias ordered the government to take a 180-degree turn that irreparably condemns thousands of companies, SMEs and self-employed to the closure of their businesses, hundreds of thousands of unemployed workers and Spain to address a recovery with the dry productive sector. The last time we had the opportunity to debate in this House I urged them to prioritize the defense of our productive fabric, I told them that their survival depends on how we get out of this crisis; that we get out of the crisis without a SME, without a job less will depend on our ability to recover. That is why, in my last intervention, I insisted on ensuring liquidity and employment. Firstly, liquidity, before the lack of circulation would result in the closure of companies. He told them from this rostrum that it is pointless to remove water from a plant to water it again once it is already dry, what it is about is that it does not dry. And what have you done? Instead of doing as we ask and canceling the payment of taxes and social contributions in order to reduce to the maximum the cost of some SMEs that have already stopped obtaining income, they have chosen otherwise; they have maintained their tax increase and, at the same time, they have banned the dismissals - or at least announced it - but without helping in any way the companies that you require to continue to pay the salaries of employees who are obliged to lock themselves in their homes; that is, by bringing bankruptcy to SMEs that will not be able to bear it financially and, thus, to unemployment of full staff when, in other circumstances, at least part of the jobs would have been saved. Unfortunately, we already know the result because there is already a part of that productive tissue, a part of that plant, that has dried up. With regard to the crisis, 122 000 employers in Spain, 122 000 companies and self-employed employees in charge of them have been lost; that is about 8.2% of the total number of active enterprises, according to the statistics of contribution account codes that social security produces monthly. Its promise to provide hundreds of millions of liquidity to publicly-guaranteed companies is being deployed with an exasperating sluggishness, a sluggishness that mainly stifles self-employed and small businesses; companies that demand circulation to pay their payrolls and taxes and urgently need it. The first tranche of 20 billion had a demand of twice as much as distributed; it was insufficient. And as long as those funds arrive, our companies still have to pay taxes, like those 3.2 million self-employed people who have already paid their March quota. Liquidity must be aimed at temporarily avoiding draining the resources of companies through taxes. This is how VOX moved it from the beginning and, although you have resisted, we trust that you will finally rectify it, because the postponements and moratoriums in the payment of taxes, which are not pardons, do not constitute an irreversible disorder for the state's coffers, but their payment would do so for thousands of businesses that urgently need resources to avoid closure. Secondly, I told them about the importance of maintaining employment. Spain has to emerge from this crisis with all its talent intact, and this is only achieved by avoiding dismissals while preventing the bankruptcy of companies forced to close by decree. That is why since VOX we have proposed an exceptional measure for an exceptional moment like the one we are living in: that the State assume for three months the payment of the payrolls of all those Spaniards who, as a result of the confinement decreed by its Government, cannot work - both those who have suffered an ERTE, those who have had to stay at home for the regulations that do not allow them to leave - and that the State pays a premium of 20% as compensation to the workers of the strategic sectors who are developing exemplary work during this crisis for our basic services to continue to work. And so that we have the peace of mind that all our workers, our traders, our self-employed, have a coverage during this three-month time and that we can get out of this tunnel in perfect condition and with our living companies. And it is that if for decades the Spaniards have been supporting the state, it is time for the state to support the Spaniards. Let us bear in mind that this simple measure of implementation has both the dual purpose of injecting liquidity and preserving employment, and we will not tire of repeating that liquidity and employment are the two keys to getting out of this situation. The virus that has accelerated the economic crisis that has already been seen comes from China, and it seems that in Chinese the word crisis is represented by a symbol that means danger and another that means opportunity. Well, we have to try to find what opportunity is presented to us in this crisis. We see at least two: the reindustrialization of Spain and the reform of the public administration from above. Both objectives are job generators. If we have learned something in these weeks, it is important that our supply chains are better protected. It is true that in recent decades we have outsourced production in Asia and especially in China, production of finished products and parts and components for industry. The reduction in costs was very attractive, it is true that very often based on social dumping and on a lower quality or reliability of what has been produced, but let us also not hide that Spain, like almost all of Europe, has become a bureaucratic and regulatory fiscal hell and the opportunity now presented to us is very clear. Let us make Spain move from fiscal hell to employment paradise; let us make it so attractive to establish an industry in Spain that the possible lower cost of production in other countries is offset by security in the supply chain, ease of procurement and a regulatory environment conducive to wealth creation. We compensate for our higher labour costs with greater security of supply, lower administrative costs, more facilities for creating and growing, and higher training for our workers. Let us reduce fiscal, regulatory and labour burdens, not during this crisis, but on a permanent basis. Let us at once attack the bureaucracy that slows down our progress, the same bureaucracy that in this crisis has left medical supplies paralyzed for days in customs or that has prevented the fastest distribution of aid due to lack of permits or that has shown the inefficiency of seventeen unconnected and insolidary health systems among themselves. Let us take advantage of the technology to make the Spanish administration a factor of competitiveness rather than a factor of ballast. In the same way that the Tax Agency or the Directorate-General for Traffic are prodigies of technological efficiency to raise funds from those administered, let the rest of the Administration also be so to provide services to the Spaniards. We adopt efficiency criteria in the public sector, as Spanish people have done in their personal and work fields in recent decades. While robotisation has reduced the number of jobs per production centre, it has also led to an increase in the competitiveness of Spanish companies compared to other cheaper labour-intensive countries. Let us therefore encourage that there are many more workplaces in Spain and we will once and for all destabilize hatred, suspicion and distrust of our productive sector. It is time to set priorities. If you do not do this, the economy will certainly suffer, but don't worry, we will take care of fixing it sooner than later because the Spaniards deserve it, because the Spaniards are already doing a lot for Spain and deserve that their government too will start doing something for them. In last Saturday's 'Hello President' program, Mr. Sánchez quoted John F. Kennedy. I like Kennedy a lot; I've read a lot about him and even met people around him, but let me tell you that Mr. Sánchez is not John Fitzgerald Kennedy. Our president is the anti-Kennedy because Kennedy inspired a nation by inviting them to reflect on what they could do for their country, and Mr. Sánchez by taking this quote in vain forgets that today in Spain the question is the reverse, because today it seems everyone, except Mr. Sánchez, knows what the Spaniards are doing for Spain. They are living in confinement obeying orders from the Government; they have left their jobs, with the uncertainty and discomfort that this generates, obeying orders from the Government; they have lost tens of thousands of friends and family members without even being able to give them their last farewell and have lost contact with their loved ones in hospital. The older ones had suffered in silence as progress told them that they did not matter, that they had to die to leave room for the young. Spanish health workers have worked tirelessly, without means and without the support of their rulers, putting their health at risk and on many occasions losing even their lives. The Spanish self-employed have paid their quotas or their direct and indirect taxes even when their Government has banned them from making bread in order to be able to pay those quotas. Traders have closed down their shops and entrepreneurs have had to close their SMEs. These sacrifices and many more have been made by the Spaniards, they have done so for Spain and the question today is what the government will do for the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. The right path is clear: let us preserve the economy in times of crisis, whatever it costs. We guarantee the existing jobs today and immediately thereafter. Let us work to create a legal, fiscal, labour and even cultural environment designed to generate more growth and, with this, more hope for the future for the generations to come. In this way, the prosperity generated will allow us to pay taxes with which the State sustains. [[The lady]] Madam Minister, in view of how you have been involved in this pandemic, in view of the inability of this Socialist-Communist coalition government to take appropriate measures, in view of the threefold health, economic and institutional crisis, the best thing that can happen to Spain is for you to leave and move on to a national emergency government capable of straightening out a situation that has gone away from your hands. It is no longer enough with the resignation of Pablo Iglesias, they all have to leave, because today his entire government is complicit in a drift that can bring us to ruin. And no, VOX has not come to support you on the road to ruin; VOX has come to protect Spain. Our responsibility with those who voted for us and with those who did not vote for us is to defend until the end the exercise that the Constitution has entrusted to us, the control of the Government; to defend until the end our health personnel who are having heroic behavior these days; to defend until the end the rights and freedoms of Spaniards confined to their homes, who are once again showing extraordinary maturity; and to defend our ability to promote sooner or later a recovery without a drowned SME or a lost job. Spain deserves at least one Government as good as the Spanish and therefore Spain deserves the resignation of this Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u143	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Leal Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u144	Thank you, President. I will try to be respectful of the times and with the patience of my colleagues in the seats. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if we review the sitting papers on hundreds of interventions in cases of validation of royal decree-laws, you will see that a classic parliamentary debate is to discuss the extraordinary and urgent need. I don't think I'm exaggerating if I say that never as at this time was more justified and made more sense the use by the government of the royal decree-laws. Most of the dictates and validated by this House during these weeks have essentially had two major objectives: to reduce the possibilities of contagion of citizens to save human lives and to distribute the sacrifices of the crisis through the redistribution of the media. Two functions which are essential and which must always be carried out by a Government in a rule of law, but which at the moment, in the face of the brutality of the crisis we are experiencing and its consequences, are manifested as obvious, extraordinary and urgent necessity. In this scenario are framed the two royal decree-laws that we submit to validation in this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u145	Mrs Leal, forgive me, I interrupt you for a moment to ask you again to join in the applause with our fellow citizens. [[Prolonged applause, with the House set up]] Thank you so much. Excuse me, Mrs. Leal. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u146	Thank you, President. Yes, Spain acted before the rest of Europe, but, ladies and gentlemen, all the governments, all the countries in our environment - let's go back to what they want, Italy, France, Germany, Portugal or Belgium - are making decisions that are acutely affected by the emergency, surprised by the virulence of the spread, driven by the obligation to meet the peremptory needs of the sick, of the workers or of the citizens as a whole. They are governments of left or right, center, liberal or progressive, they are governments of all colors and ideologies that provide solutions, create remedies, scale measures and gradually increase their means. Everyone is doing the best they can, but let us recognize that the task is not without difficulties or obstacles. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the right, you could try a little in the understanding, in the understanding of the verb understand, of understanding the enormous difficulties facing this country. Yes, it is the government that directs it, but who is facing major difficulties is Spain, the Spaniards, the Spanish, the citizens on foot who are in their homes also listening to us. With this I do not mean that you cannot be demanding or critical with the Government, but if you add to the demand and criticism a dose of measure and moderation, perhaps some of the judgments and criticism that we have heard today in this House would be more equitable and proportionate, but from the loyalty and unity that the President of the Government has so much required of you. The decrees the validation of which defends my group bring cause in the statement of the state of alert of 14 March. Since then, it has been an intense pace that the Government has adopted by adopting in the Council of Ministers successive rules for the development of this state of alert. They are improving the measures imposed which are being taken, because not all measures could be taken at the same time, it was neither advisable nor possible, nor all legislative activity responds to a fixed picture, but it is a consequence of a changing and constantly evolving situation. The logic of the labour measures adopted by the Government responds to the view that the situation we are experiencing is a temporary and transitional situation, so the measures to be taken are also of the same temporary and transitional nature. The Royal Decree-Law 9/2020 is complementary to the much longer 8/2020 of 17 March, but the latter, on 17 March, condenses the basic philosophy of the Government in addressing the enormous problems that are causing the crisis of COVID-19 in the labour market. The Government's primary objective has been and is to preserve and protect jobs. This makes it easier to suspend contracts, yes, but this flexibility and facilitation of ERTE was a formula chosen by the Government and validated in this House to prevent by all means at our disposal the termination of contracts and, therefore, the destruction of employment. It is the state, in that case, that assumes responsibility, the cost of suspensions, because the government was and is aware that companies - let me say, ladies and gentlemen - also needed breathers. The State thus becomes transitional and in some way the employer of last resort. The State is the first to assume its responsibility and to take care, with the resources of all, of the difficulties of the companies. Royal Decree-Law 9/2020 also has the fundamental, albeit not unique, objective of ensuring that contracts are not extinguished, that jobs are not destroyed. The Government, ladies and gentlemen, has once again found it desirable to redistribute costs and sacrifices, and while on 17 March and for tens of thousands of workers and companies the ERTE are made possible, on 27 March it calls for an effort to anticipate companies not to extinguish contracts, not to leave anyone behind and to protect work and workers. For its part, Royal Decree-Law 10/2020, which we also bring to validation, aims to allow millions of workers to remain in their homes, helping to limit the spread of the virus to the maximum. Limitations are established, but always within the prerogatives that allow the constitutional and legal regulation of the state of alarm. Because yes, Mr Oblanca, the Constitutional judgment and jurisprudence is very clear. In Constitutional Court ruling 87/2016 on the state of alarm, if we examine strictly the legal limitations that are being decreed, we must recognize that the Government, within the extraordinary complexity of this situation, is being very careful from the point of view of respect and non-infringement of fundamental rights. In this line, which separates the limitation of the rights from the suspension of those rights, the constitutional legal content of the prerogatives provided to the Government by the declaration of a state of alarm has not been overwhelmed at any time. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, what we validate today has a counterpart, and is that the workers remain in their homes and continue to pay their wages and, once normality has been recovered, return with their work the wages received. We therefore agree with the House that companies should continue to pay their workers for a job they are going to do in the future, if they are to validate this instrument. Someone may think that we are imposing an excessive obligation on companies at a time also very difficult for them, but it is our duty as parliamentarians - and the Government does not forget its duty - that it is time to distribute sacrifices and redistribute the means. And in the field of labour relations and the regulation of the rights and obligations of workers and enterprises, it is appropriate for the authority to exercise a tuitive power in favour of the weakest party. That is why we believe that the effort we are asking for today from companies will be returned in the future with the work of their workers. Ladies and gentlemen, unforeseen circumstances of force majeure have arisen and, as Professor Thomas de la Quadra recalled yesterday in a national newspaper, the maximum that the Government has pursued, recalling Ulpiano's alterum non laedere, was precisely that: not to harm others. It is this maxim that has led the Government to take measures that alter the ordinary limits, also the legal relations between companies and workers, for a single purpose, to limit the spread of the virus and to distribute the burdens and consequences of the crisis equitably. It's good enough to throw insidiaries and lies. From the Socialist Group we will not tire of recognizing the effort that millions of workers are making, but also tens of thousands of companies. We have both asked for sacrifices, imposed limitations and new obligations; their lives, labour relations and productive systems have been altered. All this in a very short time and with a level of compliance and acceptance that says a lot about the civic sense that this great country is going through. Workers, self-employed, employers, trade union and business organisations have been able to see and accept these and other measures with a higher interest than the individual. They have valued with a maturity that to some surprises that this is a time to tie the shoulder, to give the best of ourselves, to sacrifice us beyond one's expectations. The lesson that the whole of citizenship is giving us is the best inspiration for a time when it combines, yes, the pain and suffering of many with the courage and individual and collective sacrifice of all. In this context, we believe that these decrees are part of the reasonable and fair decisions; a necessary response, within the difficult balance in which we move. That is why we ask you to support their validation. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, our country needs, indeed, a social and economic reconstruction with guarantees to go on and on. Let's do it together; let's do it together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Leal. ACTS RELATING TO THE STATES OF ALARM, EXCEPTION AND SITE. [[VOTING]] - No, no, no, - Application for authorisation of the state of alarm declared by the Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the state of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by the Royal Decree 476/2020 of 27 March. [[File number 091/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u148	We shall proceed to the votes. We vote, first, on the request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by Royal Decree 476/2020 of 27 March, in its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 43 plus 306 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 34 plus 236 telematics votes, 270; against, 7 plus 47 telematics votes, 54; abstentions, 2 plus 23 telematics votes, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u149	The extension of the state of alarm, which will be published in the State Official Gazette, is therefore authorised.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u150	Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 9/2020 of 27 March, adopting complementary measures in the field of work to alleviate the effects of COVID-19. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 43 plus 304 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 20 plus 168 telematics votes, 188; against, 18 plus 120 telematics votes, 138; abstentions, 5 plus 16 telematics votes, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u151	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 43 plus 304 by telephone, 347; in favour, 35 plus 270 by telephone, 305; against, 6 plus 30 by telephone, 36; abstentions, 2 plus 4 by telephone, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u152	It was adopted. It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 10/2020, OF 29 MARCH, RELATING TO A RECOGNIZEABLE RETURN PERMIT FOR PERSONS WORKING ON THE AGE THAT DO NOT PROVIDE ESSENTIAL SERVICES IN ORDER TO REDUCE THE MOBILITY OF POPULATION IN THE CONTEXT OF THE FIGHT AGAINST COVID-19. [[File number 130/000011]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u153	Royal Decree 10/2020 of 29 March regulating a retrievable remuneration permit for persons employed on behalf of others who do not provide essential services in order to reduce the mobility of the population in the context of the fight against COVID-19. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 43 plus 304 by telephone, 347; in favour, 21 plus 173 by telephone, 194; against, 18 plus 121 by telephone, 139; abstentions, 4 plus 10 by telephone, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u154	The royal decree-law is validated. We have also requested the processing of this royal decree-law as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: Votes cast, 43 plus 304 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 33 plus 269 telematics votes, 302; against, 7 plus 31 telematics votes, 38; abstentions, 3 plus 4 telematics votes, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u155	It was adopted. It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 11/2020 OF 31 MARCH, BY WHICH SUPPLEMENTARY EMERGENCY MEASURES ARE TAKEN IN THE SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK TO FRONT COVID-19. [[File number 130/000012]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u156	Royal Decree-Law 11/2020 of 31 March, which provides for the adoption of additional urgent measures in the social and economic fields to deal with COVID-19. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 43 plus 304 by telephone, 347; in favour, 18 plus 153 by telephone, 171; against, 1 plus 1 by telephone, 2; abstentions, 24 plus 150 by telephone, 174.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u157	The royal decree-law is validated. We have also requested the processing of this royal decree-law as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 43 plus 304 by telephone, 347; in favour, 35 plus 268 by telephone, 303; against, 6 plus 30 by telephone, 36; abstentions, 2 plus 6 by telephone, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-09-CD200409.u158	It was adopted. It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. I would like once again to thank on behalf of all the Members of Parliament for the work and commitment of the workers of the Congress of Deputies for allowing this plenary to be held today. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was eight and twenty minutes of the night.
