ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u1	Very good morning. The meeting was called to order. At the beginning of another plenary session today under the conditions recommended by the health emergency situation, we remind, always with appreciation and admiration, those who continue to work for the health and safety of all. In this House's representation, we thank you for your invaluable task and also express our gratitude to those who continue to comply with the instructions of the health authorities. Likewise, by agreement of the Board of Spokesmen, we again express our regret for those who have died as a result of the pandemic, as well as our condolences to their relatives and relatives, keeping a minute of silence. [[The ladies and gentlemen present in the Chamber, stood up, kept a minute of silence.]] ACTS RELATING TO THE STATES OF ALARM, EXCEPTION AND SITE: - Application for authorisation of the extension of the state of alarm declared by the Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the state of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by the Royal Decree 476/2020 of 27 March, 487/2020 of 10 April, 492/2020 of 24 April, and 514/2020 of 8 May. [[File number 091/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u2	Thank you very much. Discussion of the request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by Royal Decree 476/2020 of 27 March, 487/2020 of 10 April, 492/2020 of 24 April and 514/2020 of 8 May. I should like to inform you that the proposals concerning the request for authorisation of the extension of the state of alarm will be voted upon at the end of the debate on the first item on the agenda. In order to explain the reasons for the request for an extension, the President of the Government has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Ten weeks have passed since we declared the state of alarm last March 14th and adopted very severe measures of social isolation; a time that we have spent together since this pandemic took the lives of family members, friends, loved ones, interrupted the daily life of our country - also of the world - truncated our way of living, compromised the viability of business, jobs and projects. What seemed to belong to another time ended up happening and what no one expected came. These ten weeks have left a trail of pain that will last forever in the memory of our country. Today we are not all, today we are missing more than 27,700 compatriots, to whom we have just devoted a minimum tribute of silence and to whom we will pay a great tribute, as soon as health conditions permit. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been ten weeks and, therefore, let me make a brief chronological review of the way we have gone so far. On 10 March, I participated in the extraordinary meeting of the European Council where the crisis of COVID-19 was first addressed. And then I advanced that the European Commission and also the Eurogroup would announce joint economic and financial measures. I went on to say that we were faced with a global health emergency, which was affecting dozens of countries and therefore a coordinated global response was needed at European and multilateral level. We work in a coordinated and priority way with the autonomous communities, with social actors and also with political forces. That day, I said: To combat this public health emergency, we will do what is necessary, where it is needed and when it is needed. And I advanced that together - no doubt - we will overcome this crisis. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I hold all those words one by one. I then announced that we were working from the Government on a shock plan, on a triple network that are ultimately four pillars in different areas. The first is to protect and guarantee the well-being of families, especially working families; secondly, to ensure the supply and production of medical supplies and access to health supplies; thirdly, to protect employment in affected sectors as a result of the closure of the health emergency and, fourthly, to put all our efforts and all the resources necessary to support the liquidity of autonomous, small and medium-sized enterprises, ultimately the productive sector of our country. On 11 March, the World Health Organization formally declared that the outbreak of COVID-19 was a pandemic, because the disease spread worldwide and we lacked - as we now lack - the medical treatment that would allow us to protect ourselves from the virus. On the same day, I will reiterate that this pandemic has a triple consequence, which is not only health, but also economic and social. Therefore, we were faced - as we faced - with an unprecedented emergency that lacked a true instruction manual. Only knowledge and science could guide us - although with certain limitations because, obviously, they are also facing an unknown virus from science - in order to be able to make decisions together and in a coordinated way. Spain was overflowing with disease and pain at full speed, and society began to visualize with amazement the nightmare that we were already living. And in the face of an exceptional situation, ladies and gentlemen, there was only one exceptional response from this House as we did. We began to adopt and implement immediately different packages of health, social and economic measures so as not to leave anyone behind; doing what is needed - as I said before - where it is needed and when it is needed. On 13 March, forty-eight hours after the World Health Organization declared COVID a pandemic, I announced the statement of the state of alarm by the Government, which was formally decreed the following day, on 14 March. We then started an accelerated mitigation phase with a clear goal: to contain the virus, avoid contagion and save lives. And for that, what we had to do was bend the curve, and do it in as little time as possible and with as little loss as possible. We all as a community had a mission, a common goal, the most important and the most effective - I repeat - stay at home, take care of those who take care of us, those who take care of us. Ladies and gentlemen, we were the first European country to declare the state of alarm both in terms of the number of contagions and also in terms of deaths on that date. And I would like to stress once again that Spain has always, always, always followed the recommendations of the World Health Organization, of the international health experts - also European - and, no doubt, of the extraordinary work of the Centre for the Coordination of Alerts and Health Emergencies, to whom we will always thank their professionalism, their dedication and their commitment. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that on Wednesday, February 12, 2020, the organizers of the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona decided to cancel the event due to the resignation of some companies and manufacturers to attend this event. Its reason, as is well known, was the fear that the presence of some companies on the Asian continent, especially China and Korea, in the face of the possibility of a contagion of the disease, which at that moment we saw from Europe circumscribed to the Asian continent. Good proof of this is the reaction that the cancellation provoked in the public opinion of our country. Just read the editorials of the most relevant media at the time to remember what COVID-19 looked like from Spain. There was talk of precipitation, of unwarranted alarm, of an epidemic of fear; in short, they were recurrent expressions not only by the opposition, which criticized the Government for the cancellation of the Mobile World Congress, but also by the most significant media in our country. And they did it without exception, there were no opposing opinions. The COVID-19 was still in mid-February, ladies and gentlemen, a diffuse, remote threat seemingly far from us; the bias of retrospect had not even entered the scene, and so it was during the following weeks. However, just thirty days later, our country was forced to declare the state of alarm at the presence of explosive outbreaks of the pandemic in our territory, one of the first affected in the world by the spread of COVID-19. In just thirty days we passed from widespread disbelief to the need to plunge the entire country into an unprecedented confinement in our history, as the only alternative to avoid the collapse of our National Health System and the death of hundreds of thousands of compatriots. Ladies and gentlemen, exactly the same process has been experienced by each and every one of the great Western countries, which, one after another, have had to adopt - some after certain hesitations, let us not forget - measures of general containment of the population; Italy, France, Germany, Great Britain, then the United States, and now we are seeing it extended to the whole of the American continent. Each and every one of the great Western powers has had to take the same measures and have experienced the same tragedy as our country. The pandemic, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, has not been a problem for our country. The situation allowed us to see that this pandemic does not understand borders, we have said this on many occasions from this rostrum; it does not understand borders, it does not understand ways of thinking, neither of colors nor of ideology nor of gender. The virus affects people without asking where they are born, where they live or what they think, but its consequences, ladies and gentlemen, do have an unequal influence on the population depending on the situation in which each person is found. On 17 March, four days after announcing the state of alarm decree and thus paralysing much of our economy, I announced in this rostrum the mobilization of up to 200 billion euros, the largest amount of economic resources in our country's democratic history, to curb the recession that came as a result of the closure of economic activity. This is the largest social and business protection network in our history, which undoubtedly responds to the magnitude of the economic and social challenge ahead. This crisis leaves us, in my opinion, great lessons to the Government, but the most visible is that the capacity of our public system is the best containment dam against any threat and, therefore, we must defend it, strengthen it and preserve it during the pandemic and, without a doubt, after the pandemic, and translate the applause that is spreading every day in our country, as a result of this support given to health personnel, into lasting public policies that protect us all, I insist, think what you think, live where you live, vote what you vote for, everyone, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is what the Government of Spain is doing. On 18 March, I announced in this House that the Government would promote a study and evaluation committee that will rigorously analyse the state of public health in our country and will therefore draw up a white paper in order to make the necessary adjustments and changes, and that we would also present budgets for social and economic reconstruction as soon as possible, with the support of parliamentary groups, when we had overcome the virus and therefore assessed the economic and social impact of this emergency. On 4 April, I urged the political forces, also the autonomous communities, the municipal governments, the political forces, in short, and the social actors to start working on a pact for social and economic reconstruction on the basis of unity and loyalty. And we agreed, days later, that this pact should be established within the framework of a parliamentary committee, which has already been set up and where the working groups have already been approved by thematic areas. We live, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, very hard weeks, tragic weeks in which everything seemed black: the sanitary workers fought unequally against a lethal enemy, the victims numbered hundreds, and the solution did not settle. A total of two weeks was decreed - let us remember, ladies and gentlemen - of all non-essential activities taking advantage of the celebration of Holy Week. And I want to stress that the response of the population has been and is formidable: older, younger, students, teachers, women and men workers, entrepreneurs, all our fellow countrymen united fulfilled their mission with social discipline and also with morale of victory. And the progress has come. With the effort of all, with the sacrifice of all, these advances have come. Little by little we were recovering the pulse, first, with the return to work after Holy Week; from 27 April, with gradual measures of relief from confinement starting, for example, for children under the age of fourteen, boys and girls; later, on 2 May, we increased the relief measures for the rest of the people. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we were going with a lot of effort to defeat the pandemic. In the meantime, and since the beginning of April, we have been weeks, as I have also announced from this rostrum, working on a plan of descalation, which we have called a plan of transition to the new normality, and for this we seek the opinion and proposals of experts in the scientific, health, social, economic and business fields. In parallel and also coordinated, meetings were held and proposals were exchanged with the heads of the regional and local administrations and, no doubt, also with the social partners. And on April 28, I presented this plan, the result of a collaborative, shared, responsible work, after approving it in the Council of Ministers. I want to be in this, ladies and gentlemen, quite clear. It has not brought us the current, we have not come this far out of inertia; we have come this far with the extreme work of the health workers and the sacrifice, commitment and social discipline of all the citizens of our country. It is the Spanish people who have brought the virus back. It is the citizens of this country who have doubled the curve, united. It is the Spaniards who have stopped the virus together. And no one, I repeat, has the right to waste what we have achieved among all of us during these long weeks of confinement. As you know, 70% of our territory is currently in phase 1 of the descalation. As a result, Spain is reactivating, citizens are regaining freedom of movement, the economic fabric is gradually starting up, and it is true that, in the opinion of health experts, Madrid, Barcelona, its metropolitan area, and some health areas of Castilla and León must remain at the moment in phase 0, although they do so with measures that significantly soften the rigour of restrictions in the commercial field and also in certain recreational activities. And the Canary Islands and Balearic Islands, La Graciosa, El Hierro, La Gomera and Formentera are already in phase 2. As I warned, the plan for the transition to this new normality, the plan of descalation, is asymmetrical, gradual and coordinated. However, asymmetry does not mean disunity or disorder. We'll go out at different speeds, but we'll go out together. There's no way out of the mess or the division. Ladies and gentlemen, in my appearances I have always maintained that the first achievement would come when we overcame as a population, as a community, the peak of the spread of the disease and doubled the curve, and I have to admit to you that we have achieved it, that we have recognized it and that the Spanish have done it. That the second achievement would come when the jump of medical discharges was greater than that of new infected, and I simply leave you this data: this last week, that is, from Monday 11 to Sunday 17, there have been 15,785 cured and cured compared to the 3947 new diagnosed; the previous week were 8316 new infected. It has been so for days and in a sustained way: the curates multiply while the number of new diagnoses is reduced. We have therefore far surpassed the second milestone referred to earlier. The third achievement, which we have not yet achieved but which we are on the way to achieving, would take place when the contagions fall into bites. It is true that we have made progress and a lot - here are the figures - with a lot of effort, with a lot of sacrifice and also with the spirit of victory of the Spanish society as a whole. Let us recall some figures, ladies and gentlemen, two months ago the virus spread at a rate of 35% daily, each person infected transmitted the disease to more than three people on average. Today, the reproduction rate is below, much below, one, around 0.20. But we must assume that, until we have that therapeutic remedy or the vaccine, we will live with the virus because it will not have disappeared from our life and society. And the threat is especially acute during this second stage, in which we have entered that descalation, because there are still hundreds of daily infections that we must detect, attend to and isolate. Therefore, what I want to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, is that prudence and caution must be a standard of conduct in the political decisions that we take among all. And with all that prudence and with all that caution, without lowering the guard, we can say that the state of alarm has worked, the state of alarm, ladies and gentlemen, has worked, and that the plan of descalation is working; it has benefited the whole of autonomous communities and, consequently, the whole of citizens live where they live. We also have, after almost ten weeks since the state of alarm, some certainties that I would like to share with all of you. Last week, for example, we communicated the first wave or the first phase of the study of seroprevalence, unpublished in Europe today, which has coordinated the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Science together with the leadership of the Carlos III Public Institute, and which has been carried out - and I would like to acknowledge this - with the invaluable collaboration of the autonomous communities, without which it would not have been possible. This study reveals three issues that I would like to share with all of you; three data of enormous value. The first is that the infection has unequally affected the different territories. There are provinces where the percentage of people who have been in contact with the virus is ten times higher than in other provinces, even in neighbouring provinces. The second fact is that only 5%, only 5% of citizens have been infected with COVID-19, with or without symptoms. And the third fact is that the actual lethality of COVID-19 is around 1%, being much higher among older people and with previous illnesses, as we have unfortunately seen during these weeks. From this study I would like to keep two lessons to share with all of you. The first lesson is that the state of alarm has benefited the whole country, all citizens, all autonomous communities alike. The most infected areas have benefited, for example, the Community of Madrid, where the contagions have clearly fallen; and the less affected areas have benefited because the infections have not arrived from outside: Murcia, Andalusia, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands and so many others. I insist, the state of alarm has been effective for all the territories and, consequently, has benefited all Spanish citizens. The second lesson is that the path we are on together - and I would also like to underline this and thank this House, the parliamentary majority in this House that has supported the extension of the state of alarm over these long weeks - is the only possible way to combat the virus effectively. Prudence, caution and safety as a guide have been vital to curbing the spread of the virus. Look, at the beginning of the emergency, there were those - not only in Spain, but also outside our country, even important leaders from important countries - who said that the only possible solution would be to allow the virus to circulate freely until it reached what epidemiological experts call herd immunity; that is, 60% or 70% of the population would become infected and, therefore, immunized, and so the virus would cease to circulate. Today we know that, if we had followed that strategy, two thirds of the Spanish population would have been infected, that is, thirty million compatriots and, consequently, today we would have added more than 300,000 victims. Probably, even, much more because the National Health System would obviously have collapsed and, as a result, there would have been far more deaths than we have, unfortunately, recorded today as well. These ladies and gentlemen, they are not conjectures, they are not assumptions; they are facts, they are certain conclusions. As I said before, thanks to all the Members who, over these long weeks, have supported the state of alarm, the extension of the state of alarm, because with their vote they have prevented the spread of the virus and saved thousands and thousands and thousands of lives of compatriots. Thank you. We have recovered a lot of ground, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the virus, a lot of ground, but the virus is still there, it is still lurking, as we have said on many occasions, and to overcome it it is essential to continue to anticipate us and keep it on track in order to avoid rebounds and possible future waves. And we can only anticipate our enemy if we bet on security at every stage of the descalation, if we bet on coordination, collaboration, solidarity and institutional loyalty. Because descalada is not an exam, nor is it a competition between autonomous communities; descalada is an exercise of science and also of prudence. Ladies and gentlemen, I came under the control of this House on 25 March, on 9 and 22 April, on 6 May, where I had the opportunity to request extensions of the state of alarm from your ladies and gentlemen under the advice of the experts and for the essential purpose of continuing to save lives, to avoid the collapse of our National Health System and to continue to support the workers and the productive fabric of our country. However, this extension has logically different characteristics because we are at a completely different stage from last 14 March. The Government's proposal, which I submit to you for consideration and vote, is that in this extension the only delegated authority of the Government is Minister Illa, the Ministry of Health. The Minister will continue to logically count on the advice of the department's technicians, will maintain the connection and full coordination with the autonomous communities. He will be the person, together with the autonomous communities, who marks the rhythms and modalities of the descalation, and the exceptional powers that were conferred at the beginning of the state of alarm to the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, will fall. By the way - I have them here - I would like to thank the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Transport for the work they have done over these ten weeks of state of alarm. [[Applauds]] In addition, in this period, as it has begun to happen for two weeks now, it will govern a basic principle for this government, which is that of co-governance. It is the autonomous governments, the autonomous communities, that have always maintained their full management capacity in their health skills, and this I would also like to underline, remind, reiterate, if I may. The Royal Decree declaring the state of alarm on 14 March effectively established a centralized command, which would have to coordinate all matters relating to the health emergency, but did not relieve the councillors of the autonomous communities from any of their functions - from none, I repeat, of any -. I was literally saying the following, and I would like to recall it for the record in the Journal of Sessions: Each administration - said that decree - will retain the powers conferred on it by the legislation in force in the ordinary management of its services to take the measures it deems necessary under the direct orders of the competent authority for the purposes of the state of alarm. And later the drafting of this decree continued: The autonomous public administrations - also the local ones - will maintain the management, within their area of competence, of the corresponding health services, ensuring at all times their proper functioning. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good that we stress this so as not to confuse the citizenry. Ten weeks later, in my opinion, everything is much clearer. During the state of alarm, the Government has established the legal framework through decrees, ministerial orders, but at no time has it replaced the ordinary authorities in the management of the services. I say this in another way: the autonomous communities have never lost their co-responsibility in the exercise of competences, they have only been coordinated and strengthened in terms of public health, public order and mobility. Well, in addition to continuing to exercise all its managerial powers with full normality - I am referring to the autonomous communities - in addition, in this last stage of the descalation they will recover their full decision-making capacity. Thus, the autonomous communities, and especially their primary care services, will be gaining more and more prominence in the management of the coming weeks of descalation. Consequently, I wish the Autonomous Communities every success and assure them of all loyal support from the Government of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to be clear. In this situation of extraordinary crisis, ordinary legislation has proved to be inadequate and political turmoil has proved to be useless. A lot has been discussed, not only from this rostrum - and I am convinced that it will also be done by your ladies and gentlemen, especially those who fix their position on the no to the extension of the state of alarm - on the need for the state of alarm in order to maintain the exceptional situation in which we live. It has been said from some political forces, particularly conservative ones, that there were sufficient alternative tools in the existing legislation to deal with the health crisis without cutting - they say - the freedoms of citizens, and in this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share some thoughts with you. The first is that the state of alarm is fully legal, nothing less than the core of our legislative system, which is the Spanish Constitution. It is not something that has been invented, therefore, by the Spanish Government, nor has it been invented by the majority of European governments who have resorted to a kind of legal and constitutional instrument similar to ours. There are some constitutional articles that fortunately have a circumstantial use, as is the case, but which were conceived by the constituents precisely for situations in which they were precise as is the present. The second reflection that I would like to make to you is that every legal system tends to the principle of economy, which is to achieve the desired legal objectives, minimizing the resources used. Therefore, there should be no duplicate legal figures. It is therefore false to ask the Government of Spain to replace the state of alarm at this time of emergency with a rosary of ordinary laws which are designed for ordinary situations, which are not like the one we are currently living in; laws which also contain voids impossible to cover, such as the possibility of limiting mobility or also an essential basic right of our democracy, such as freedom of assembly. Such a replacement, moreover, ladies and gentlemen, would serve to hinder the legal process, divert energies that we need to resolve the health, economic and social crisis and entangle coordination between the different administrations at a critical time like the one we are experiencing. What we are going to do, ladies and gentlemen, is to plan; what we are going to do, ladies and gentlemen, is to start analysing and discussing with all of you and to negotiate the amendment of different laws to ensure proper governance, once we have raised the state of alarm. These necessary reforms are expected to be very concrete and with a single purpose, which is what I have told you before: to manage the monitoring of the pandemic once the state of alarm is lifted. These laws will be essentially health laws, i.e. the General Health Act, 1986; the Cohesion and Quality Act of the National Health System, 2003, and above all the General Public Health Act, adopted in 2011. We will also study the National Security Act, adopted in 2015, as epidemics and pandemics are among the situations of national security interest, as set out in the national security strategy. The third reflection that I would like to share with you is the following. What benefits would we gain from raising the alarm state? What benefits would we gain today from raising the alarm state? I tell you in another way, what rights are intended to be returned or restored in that way? Is it intended to restore the full right to mobility of persons without any restrictions? Do we want everyone to be able to decide whether to move from one point of our boundless geography to another? I believe that we all agree that it is not yet the time to do so and there is already a de-escalation plan which envisages the different stages in which this can be carried out gradually, in short, gradually. I would dare to say that this graduality receives the consensus of the scientists and, with few nuances - I am convinced, beyond what you are going to vote for - almost the political consensus of this House. Is it intended to restore the right to open businesses, offices, businesses without restrictions? I don't think anyone sees this as reasonable from a health point of view either. We may disagree at some speeds, at some speeds, but no one discusses the essential and central principle of gradually and safely derailing each and every economic activity in our country. Is it intended to restore the right to exercise without any limitation, without any kind of skirmish, the right of assembly, including the possibility of holding mass demonstrations or events in stadiums, concert halls or public streets? I think we will all agree that it would be an extraordinary irresponsibility, beyond what you are going to vote for. If we have all - all - come to the conclusion that some of these events can spread and spread the virus, it does not seem sensible to allow yet unlimited celebration of this kind of manifestations. What other right or freedom of citizenship has been limited by the state of alarm, ladies and gentlemen? The right to information? The right to privacy? The right to freedom of expression? The state of alarm, ladies and gentlemen, has been absolutely respectful of each and every one of the individual rights. And apart from individual rights, which are fully guaranteed, perhaps some of you believe that the ban on firing workers during the state of alarm is unfair. It is a labour measure which, indeed, the Government of Spain has adopted and which it fully assumes and which of course may not be shared by any of you, but which under no circumstances justifies the lifting of the state of alarm. The fourth and final reflection that I would like to make on this issue is that there is no contradiction between the state of alarm and the institutional descalation that returns to the full development of their competences to the autonomous communities; there is complementarity. We have already demonstrated this in the last two weeks and we will continue to demonstrate it during the coming weeks of transition to that normality; in fact, in this new extension, as I said before, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda will not be delegated authorities, with the Ministry of Health alone in charge, in its field, as the only exceptional command, being the health authority the reference; a command that is still necessary - I believe we all agree that the command of the Ministry of Health is still necessary - and therefore this does not exclude co-governance with those responsible for the autonomous communities. Furthermore, I would like to make a reference to this issue because this is a government - and I have said this from this rostrum not only during the adoption of the state of alarm, but also in my investiture speech - which believes in the autonomous state, which believes in the current composition of the autonomous state. The ten conferences of presidents - for the first time in the history of democracy ten conferences of presidents in ten weeks; a meeting, therefore, per week - that I have held with the presidents and autonomous presidents have been meetings of state, of joint work to attend to the Spanish citizenship, like those that I have also had with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and like those that I have also had with the social agents. Are those presidents' conferences any better? Without a doubt, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time in the history of democracy that so many Presidents' conferences have been held in such a short space of time. There is no doubt that they can be improved, but they are state meetings, ladies and gentlemen, and this Government has repeated throughout the state of alarm that it would not maintain special powers any more than is necessary, no more than one day. The extension, ladies and gentlemen, which we are asking for is fifteen days. The evolution of the epidemic demands caution, the state of alarm must govern until it is necessary to partially condition certain rights for the sake of public health, and not one more day - I repeat: not one more day -. The state of alarm was dictated, extended and is intended to be extended only to save lives. Let us take this into account: only to save lives, to defend the public health of the Spaniards and, consequently, to guarantee the foundations of our own coexistence. He's never had another goal. When all this happens, which will happen, when we arrive at a new normality, or when even a future vaccine or a therapeutic remedy is implanted we access normality, dry - let us hope it is soon, ladies and gentlemen - we will have to change many things, but it will be things that we decide among all who are here, things that will decide citizenship through your political leaders, which are all of you and under no circumstances, things that have been decided or executed since and during exceptionality. I want the Spanish and you, ladies and gentlemen, to make this clear: it is a commitment from the Government to Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all this effort we have made as a society over these ten weeks has shown that there is a future. We are getting closer and closer that Spain recovers the total, full vitality that the citizenry recovers decisively and completes its life. There is a future, therefore, and there is hope. However, this pandemic has brought us terrible economic consequences that do not affect all citizens alike. From the outset, the Government has not ceased to adopt measures with the sole objective - we have been told repeatedly - of leaving no one behind. The causes of this economic recession have absolutely nothing to do with the previous crises, in this I think we can agree, all the more reason for not applying the prescriptions that were then only used to bring in unprecedented rates of social inequality and political disaffection. If this crisis is completely different from the previous one, even more must be different, radically different, the way out of it. Of course, what we have done so far does not meet all our objectives at all, this is evident. We have to persevere, we have to stay on course, we do not have to fall into conformism or of course into self-congratulation. These actions serve to describe the way in which we have decided to move forward as a society and to express the determination with which we want to do so in the coming weeks. The estimated cost of the measures and guarantees included in the stability programme that we sent to Brussels last week is more than EUR 138.9 billion, of which EUR 106.770 million are for economic measures, EUR 4310 million have been for health measures, more than EUR 27 billion for labour measures and more than EUR 816 million for social measures. EUR 14 billion has been allocated from the Contingency Fund for the Ministry of Health for health-related expenditure, of which 98.2 % has already been allocated and EUR 889 million has been purchased in ten weeks, ladies and gentlemen. Funds worth EUR 300 million in social policy have also been distributed to the Autonomous Communities. We estimate the line of state guarantees through the ICO of EUR 100 billion for enterprises, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises and also for self-employed workers. The first three tranches worth EUR 64 500 million have been activated, 371 000 operations have been formalised and this means total financing for companies of EUR 47 751 million. These are astronomical figures. The deadline for submitting the quarterly VAT return, the split company payment and the personal income tax was extended until 20 May. The measure will benefit 95 % of businesses and also self-employed workers. It represents a liquidity contribution of more than EUR 3550 million, corresponding to EUR 11 billion of corporate tax. More than 134,442 agricultural workers included in the Special System of Self-employed Workers are being reduced by more than 19% in the resulting quotas during the inactivity periods of 2020. It was established, as you know, the impossibility of dismissing for cases related to COVID. All basic supplies for families that have become vulnerable as a result of the COVID crisis have been guaranteed. We have automatically extended unemployment benefits, more than one million self-employed workers are receiving the cessation benefit. We have allocated EUR 3 million for an extraordinary allowance for lack of activity for persons integrated into the Special System of Home Employees of the General Social Security Regime, essentially women. We have approved a retrievable paid leave from 30 March to 9 April for workers in non-essential sectors. We have set up for the autonomous communities - now in full negotiation - the Special Fund for Social Reconstruction for the amount of 16 billion euros non-refundable, for the first time in our country's history, and we have reached an agreement in defence of employment with employers and trade unions that demonstrates the height of vision - this I would also like to acknowledge from this rostrum - by the social partners in this very extraordinary situation that we are living in. The ERTEs by force majeure due to the COVID-19 may be extended, as you know, until 30 June, either by force majeure, without restarting the activity, or partial, with recovery of part of the activity, and with possibility of further extensions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the economic scenario has changed completely. Obviously, there will be a public debt leap, not only from the Spanish Government, but also from all the governments of the world. There is no other possible alternative, in this we must be absolutely clear. All States will face levels of indebtedness that were beyond their expectations in pre-pandemic situations. The Government's forecasts, which are among the most conservative, among the most prudent of all national and international agencies, foresee a decline in our economic activity of 9.2% by 2020, which can be recovered by 2021, by the time we expect growth of 6.8%. In line with the decline in activity, there is going to be a significant deterioration in our labour market, where a 9.7% drop in employment is expected by 2020. Aware of the gravity of the economic and social situation, the Government has acted, in our view, quickly and decisively. The measures taken to sustain economic activity have been successful in cushioning the destruction of employment and the disappearance of much of the productive fabric in our country. The income maintenance measures have enabled - and I think this is also an important fact that we always have to remember - to sustain 31% of the working population in our country, more than 7.2 million people who are now protected as a result of these exceptional measures. However, the economic prospects and the end of the recession are subject to a very high degree of uncertainty, as recognized by all national and international bodies, as they depend on the speed of control of the pandemic and on the absence of relapse into the descalation plan. This gigantic shock of the pandemic has reminded us all, ladies and gentlemen, how fragile we are, but its impact - and I would like to underline this from this rostrum - is not the same in society as a whole. This situation has impacted, first of all, on those people who were already vulnerable before the implosion of this pandemic in our society; they make up a collective that had not come to recover from the effects of the 2008 crisis, whose contours we are well aware of, and are also part of the coalition government programme that runs the country. Already before the appearance of COVID-19 there were 3.4 million people without income in Spain to go to a trade to replace, for example, broken clothes; 2 million compatriots could not afford an Internet connection line at home, especially in rural areas; 1.7 million people could not afford a dentist, and 1 million people could not afford a second pair of shoes. More than 2 million children in our country suffer from poverty. In this sense, this crisis resembles the classic crises. In this, it is true, the classic crises resembled; all sectors fell several steps in the pyramid of incomes: the precarious went to poverty, a part of the workers to precariousness and the middle classes became impoverished. But this crisis has a huge difference with all the previous ones: it does not hit economic sectors or companies following a logic of productivity or efficiency. The most punished sectors are not the least competitive, but the most exposed to the social restrictions resulting from the pandemic. Therefore, there are companies and there are activities that remain relatively sheltered from this new crisis, such as the production and distribution of food, while there are other activities such as, for example, the restoration - Horeca -, tourism, where the impact is clearly negative. This circumstance makes the COVID crisis, together with the traditional differences between high and low incomes, have drawn a new distinction that I would like to share with you. In the midst of the health emergency, we all naturally suffer the concern for the disease, but there are millions of people who feel relatively calm about their economic and labour future, either because they have a healthy heritage, or because they have a secure income or receive a stable salary or have a guaranteed pension. This is protected Spain; it is formed by those who have their own or external protection: the owners of income, but also employees with stable wages, insurance, such as civil servants and pensioners or public revenues. But there are many other people who don't know what's going to happen to their job because they're incurring an ERTE, or what's going to happen to their business because they've suspended their activity, or who don't just know how they're going to survive if they exhaust the unemployment benefit they've been receiving over the last few weeks. There are millions of Spaniards who wonder what is going to be in their lives. These people do not sleep calmly nor do their families. They add to the concern for their health, an even greater anguish that affects their own survival. That is the unprotected Spain, the exposed Spain, which is the one we have to embrace. They integrate that other unprotected Spain, exposed, the precarious worker, but also the self-employed; the temporary worker, but also many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs; the unemployed, the stops, but also thousands and thousands of entrepreneurs; all those who have been touched by the worst side of the health crisis, who carried out activities more exposed to social contact. Consequently, they comprise that unprotected Spain, that exposed Spain, the precarious young people, the informal ones, the unstable ones, but also traders, autonomous, professionals, entrepreneurs, a long et cetera, ladies and gentlemen. Many of the latter promoted perfectly viable professional and business projects before the start of the pandemic but are now, logically, paralysed by the health emergency and the social contact restrictions imposed. Therefore, overcoming this crisis requires a different treatment from the previous ones. Of course, no one should be left behind, unplugged. That is the commitment of the Government of Spain and in this respect we have started to act, as we have pointed out before, with subsidies, with aid and also with liquidity guarantees. Spain cannot afford the images of the queues on the doors of social dining rooms that we are seeing during these last days. Therefore, one of the main commitments of the Government of Spain is to implement minimum living income as soon as possible. It is vital, ladies and gentlemen, not to leave anyone behind, to help the most vulnerable and to prevent the thousands and thousands of civilian victims of the epidemic from being added to millions of social victims; to assist, therefore, those who need it. That will undoubtedly be the subject of the social and economic reconstruction pacts. Helping, assisting those who need it is capital, ladies and gentlemen, but it is not enough. Because in addition to assisting those who need it, we have to help those who have viable projects that have been interrupted and we also have to reintegrate workers, who can do so, as soon as possible. That should also be dealt with in the social and economic reconstruction pacts. Our response, therefore, should not only be to help and assist, but also to bet decisively on the economic revival and the return to work of millions of workers. This crisis has partially frozen our productive apparatus, but has not destroyed it. There are perfectly viable activities, there are fully healthy companies, there are promising projects that have been paralyzed. And those companies and projects cannot allow them to collapse because they also depend on millions and millions of viable, healthy and promising jobs. That is the challenge of the social and economic reconstruction pact: to help those who need it and to reactivate the economy and employment in our country. There is also broad agreement in the business and social sphere on the need to orient the activity towards a new productive model that bets on science, research, knowledge with public education at the head of it, the ecological transition, the digital transition, and also the commitment to human capital. The ecological transition is a fundamental vector of economic and social transformation, both at national and European level - that is why yesterday we approved the preliminary draft climate change law - and it is also necessary to correct the imbalances brought about since the last financial crisis in the fiscal, labour, scientific, innovation and logically also - to which it referred - of social and gender inequality in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, understanding everything we need to solve does not mean forgetting what we have achieved in the days of maximum adversity, and that is why it is essential that we continue with the unity of action, which, in my opinion, is the most effective weapon for winning the battle against the virus. In this regard, the Government is convinced that the exit from the current crisis in its triple version, not only health but also social and economic, must have three factors, in my view. The first, it is necessary to ensure that the descalation plan is implemented satisfactorily, leaving as little room as possible for outbreaks of the disease. We will not be able to reintegrate into economic activity, nor will we be able to recover economic growth and job creation if the descalation plan is urgently intensified, decoupled from scientific and expert criteria. Secondly, I believe that the Reconstruction Commission should successfully achieve a major national reconstruction agreement that brings together political forces, autonomous communities, municipalities, local authorities, social actors and also civil society as a whole. And, ladies and gentlemen, the third key element passes through Europe. I repeat, these three elements - the de-escalation plan, the national reconstruction agreement and the European financial package - are the three fundamental pillars if we are to reactivate our country's economy as soon as possible. We are facing a pandemic in which we are also fighting, I repeat, on the European front. The Spanish Government has maintained a firm position, which we have underlined and reiterated from the rostrum not only for my part, but also those responsible for negotiating it in Brussels. We have always understood that European solidarity is one of the best tools to fight the virus, but also one of the best tools to fight for the idea of Europe in which we believe, in which I believe we can be the majority of your ladies and gentlemen in agreement. Now is the time to act together, also the European front, in the face of this adversity. That is why, since the beginning of this crisis, we have been at the forefront of the negotiations, exercising leadership, building consensus in the four European Council videoconferences that have been held so far - the last on 23 April - in the numerous informal and formal meetings of the various Council formations, in which this Government has participated at all levels, and in the constant dialogue that I am holding with the President of the European Commission, with the President of the European Council and with the leaders of other Member States, especially during these last few days. The first step came when the Eurogroup announced, in early March, the easing of the public deficit criteria set out in the Stability and Growth Pact. Two weeks later, the European Central Bank launched a public debt-purchase programme valued at EUR 750 million, an unprecedented sum that will be an oxygen balloon for the Member States over the course of 2020, and the European Council on 23 April validated a triple protection network worth EUR 540 billion, in which the Spanish Government played a key role. This is something unprecedented in the history of our Union that will allow us to have unconditional liquidity lines. On the one hand, as you know, creating an unemployment reinsurance fund - which is the embryo of that unemployment fund that we want to build at European level - which will enable temporary employment regulation mechanisms to be financed by protecting workers, for an amount of EUR 100 billion at Community level. On the other hand, by financing companies through the European Investment Bank, by favouring loans at a privileged rate to guarantee liquidity, for an amount of EUR 200 billion. And, for the Member States, creating the same funding lines without conditions to deal with the health expenditure arising from COVID-19, for an amount of EUR 240 billion. In total, I insist, EUR 540 billion. At that European Council, the Government of Spain made a commitment that this financial protection network should be put in place from 1 June, we have achieved that, and with that we have given a first message of confidence and security to our compatriots, to our companies, aware that this was the first step, that of the short term, on the road to the economic and social resolution of the crisis. We also welcomed the road map for a coordinated de-escalation by the European Commission, we called for the same coordination for the restoration of internal movements within the European Union, and also on Monday we received positively the joint initiative of the French and German governments for the European recovery of COVID-19, which contains, as you know, many of the proposals made by the Spanish Government for a rapid and solidarity-based exit from the crisis. The European recovery fund proposed by these two governments is at least EUR 500 billion in transfers to countries and sectors affected by the crisis, which I believe is a good step in the direction that our country needs and that the European Union as a whole needs. The Government now hopes that the European Commission will put on the table in the coming days a proposal, even more ambitious, which will serve as the basis for an agreement on which the economic and social revival of our continent will be affected, as - I repeat - was entrusted by the European Council on 23 April. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to look further, to think about the medium and long term and the social and economic recovery of the continent through the articulation of a great agreement between the Member States of the Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the victory on the health front is getting closer every day, there is the data; there is a future thanks to the sacrifice of all. We have come this far thanks to the exceptional effort of workers on the health front, pharmacists, transporters, supermarket employees, cleaning staff, merchants, State Security Forces and Corpses, the army, firefighters, vigilantes and thousands of volunteers; in short, thanks to the solidarity of the whole of Spanish society and its enormous sense of responsibility at this critical and hard time that our country is suffering. We warmly thank all of them and all of them, on behalf of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] Unity, ladies and gentlemen, is the most powerful force; it is the most powerful force. Adversities are superimposed not on the groups with stronger individuals, but on the more united groups. Unity has saved thousands and thousands of lives in our country, and now we need that unity to extend also to the economic, social and political front to combat the economic and social crisis, because unity can allow us to save many lives, many businesses and also jobs. The world is experiencing the passage of a pandemic, the worst in a hundred years, and we continue to fight it on all fronts, that is the simple summary of the last weeks of our lives. A deadly pandemic; a global pandemic that has paralysed our country and the whole world; an unknown pandemic, fast, fierce, changing, taking lives, destroying businesses, sowing desolation and social helplessness. And we're beating her, ladies and gentlemen, on the health front. Now we are immersed in an economic and social crisis of frightening proportions as a result of the COVID, but we are not going to get carried away by that fear. We can overcome it, and I am convinced that we will overcome it from unity. Today I would like to end my speech from this rostrum, ladies and gentlemen, with a recognition of all the public representatives who have been responsible for living these terrible weeks from a post of command, from the arena of direct management. I thank all the representatives of all the political parties present in this House, in all the territories, in all the agencies, institutions and scales of the Administration. It is a sincere recognition that I want to make from gratitude, companionship at such critical times and deep respect. To all of them, to all of them, I would like to transfer my understanding to the mistakes that they have been able to make, given the complexity and drama of the decisions they must take, because of the urgency of the measures they had to take and because of the difficulties in finding the necessary material resources in time. And, in the same way, I would like to apologize to the citizens for their own mistakes, which have always been dictated by urgency in times, by the scarcity of resources, by the exceptionality and absence of precedents of the crisis and by their unusual size. Because, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the specific differences of opinion, beyond the hasty statements or the background noise that we have heard on many occasions, we have had to work side by side; all of us have been united in the same desire: to save lives and to serve our country in the midst of the most adverse situation we could imagine. Today, and so I would like it to appear in the Journal of Sessions, I want to publicly acknowledge their management, that of each and every one of them, and I want to do so with the same emphasis with which I support the management of my Government during these critical weeks. There is no possible satisfaction in the face of a crisis involving the loss of human beings; any balance will fill us with grief. Spain, as I have already said, will declare official mourning at the moment when the whole territory enters phase 1 of the descalade. And as soon as we find ourselves in this new normality, with all the guarantees of health security we will celebrate the well-deserved public tribute to the victims of COVID. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been subjected to an unimaginable test, we have responded with sacrifice, with unity, with a morale of victory, and we are overcoming this test. Let us recognize all the good we have done together and how brave we have been along the unusual path of these past ten weeks. We must assess the agreements that we have been able to reach and their beneficial consequences for the whole of Spanish citizenship, far above the differences or mistakes that made their scope difficult. Because it will be in that recognition where we will find the strength necessary to rebuild, reactivate and advance our country, now that we can prudently calculate a provisional end to the exceptional time that we have had to live for ten weeks in this part. Ladies and gentlemen, we have stopped the virus together, we must now end this victory with unity, and we must undertake, together too - and that is what I appeal to - the social and economic reconstruction of our country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Rocío. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. Mr Casado Blanco has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, paraphrase Ortega: You don't know what's happening to us, and that's what's happening to us. The crisis of the COVID-19 has overwhelmed you; you have always gone behind events, taking the wrong steps and lying about its consequences; you hid the initial warnings, you despised the open hand of the opposition and now you go, as headless chicken, changing partners and strategy in the face of the stunned gaze of Europe and the indignation of a majority of Spaniards who have left behind and who intend to silence with the control of social networks, the media and now also the street. Their occurrences to cover up their mistakes and explain why the pandemic has become more angry with Spain than with any other country in the world are an astounding: first it was because we were hugging a lot, then because we are very old, then because tourists come, then because we are less in the West and now because we are as south as Beijing and in a straight line with New York. Hey, this is a haircut. And there is still the problem of the devil - in the words of his vice president - because it turns out that the cause of our country having the highest relative number of dead is because in Spain there are Madridns. That obsession with Madrid is contemptible, as well as absurd, because autonomy with the most dead per capita is governed by the Socialist Party. The Government's negligence to confront the coronavirus has prevented saving thousands of lives and millions of jobs, but they are trying to blame others - the other institutions - and to share responsibility with the rest of the parties, something we are not going to consent to. Mr Sánchez, today you come here to ask for the fifth extension of the state of alarm and you do so after more than sixty days of confinement, 28 000 dead, 50 000 infected health care workers, 4 million Spaniards at ERTE, others both unemployed and 100 000 broken businesses. And on top of that, he brings out his spokespersons this week to say that we must be very happy with the curves and peaks of the deceased, although, unfortunately, they are still equivalent to those of an air accident every day. That's the terrible dimension they've been trying to relativize for two months. That's the real balance of the extraordinary powers you've enjoyed, so we can't extend them any longer, it would be an irresponsibility that we're not going to commit. We've been able to get this far. In his last homily he dared to say that his measures had prevented 300,000 deaths and 30 million contagions; today he says that this is not conjecture and remains so calm. I don't know where he gets these figures, although I imagine he's from the same place as his Oxford, Johns Hopkins and OECD reports, that is, his fake news factory. He wants us to choose between you or chaos, but it's impossible because chaos is you. And the most serious thing is that you assume that you are incapable of protecting the Spaniards more than with this brutal imprisonment. Obviously, contagions are avoided by locking 47 million people at home, just as accidents at work and traffic are also avoided, but that cannot be an unlimited measure because it would put an end to our freedoms, prosperity and our welfare state. Because your plan has been a failure, Mr. Sánchez; everything that depended on you has gone wrong. Or can you tell me any positive figures in your crisis management? Number of infected, deceased, infected, unemployed health care workers, perhaps the percentage of tests performed or material acquired on time? Nothing. To set an example today of the cancellation of the Mobile World Congress is already the culmination; it was precisely his Government that opposed that closure and labelled the organizers as catastrophic, although they already had the warnings of the WHO and the EU in their possession. [[Applauds]] But, in your parallel universe, you do everything right; we know that you are perfect and that you do not make any mistakes. The fault is the PP, the rich, the bubbles, the press, the markets, even the geography. Everything is a conspiracy that makes that right-wing and bourgeois virus bait itself with Spain to test the best president of world history. But his problem is that no one believes him anymore. As in the story, a long time ago someone shouted that the king was naked and there is no more propaganda or televised rally that can disguise him. Their problem is not the caceroladas - although you organized them against the head of state - nor the protests in Núñez de Balboa or in so many other neighborhoods where citizens have the right to criticize and the duty to do so safely. His problem is in Aluche and in the kilometre queues to order a bag of food, as happens in so many associations and parishes in Spain. Its problem is the ruin that its policies are causing and that they intend to cover up by burning up a supposed class struggle that was buried under the helmets of the Berlin Wall thirty years ago. This strategy of social stratification is irresponsible, but it is not in the interests of a government that embodies the new 'caviar left'. He has failed to comply with his own rules regarding nepotism and his word not to appoint persons who used corporate instruments to evade taxes, as did up to five of his ministers and two of his secretaries of state. If you come back for Tetuán or Vallecas, you will see that many of your neighbors are asking for freedom and opportunities, not a gag, not even a subsidy, but a system in which you can regain ownership of your future with your effort and with your treasure. The best social shield is employment and the way to leave no one behind is to move forward all at once, not all of them standing still. Abandon already those Peronist dreams that diluted several European countries and institutions yesterday. That social engineering is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. The assault on the heavens always ends in corralitos and misery, whether in Venezuela, Bolivia, Greece or here. By the way, I condemn the enslavement in private homes, whoever they are and whoever they are. There are red lines that cannot be overcome and one of them is intimidation, and even more so in the family sphere. And I censor the hypocrisy of those who made them to us as a democratic syrup and now criticize us when they suffer them, while they threaten to make them to the opposition from the springs of power, which is even more serious. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, in the negotiation of this extension of the state of alarm is happening to you as in the story of Peter and the wolf. No one trusts you anymore; they have taken the measure and are allowed to blackmail you to the end, just as you have deceived us all at some point. It is only necessary to observe the funambulism of its variable geometry to verify its political fragility and its date of parliamentary expiration. It has turned the approval of such a serious constitutional exceptionality into an auction to which separatist bids arrive - to recover the table of parties - and the bids batasunas - to approach prisoners of age -. The worrying thing is that you deposited the signal this week approaching three floors, including the kidnapper of Delclaux and Aldaya. Those who seek the destruction of Spain are clear that you always give more. But every day he's more alone and weaker. All political or territorial leaders have ever betrayed or despised us and we have all taken good note. It has lost all institutional credibility and lost citizen confidence. Every vote is a supplication for you, and what's left of the legislature will be a calvary. I do not count the fable of the scorpion and the frog because I have already brought it here in his investiture and I do not want to allude to any other party, but it is evident that the trick goes in its nature and cannot remedy it even if it harms itself. Still, he always plays hard no matter the cost of his pulses to others, and so goes, from victory to pyrrhic victory to final defeat. That cost is also institutional. During this state of alarm you have used to approve a forest of two hundred and ten exceptional rules, nineteen decrees, one hundred and thirteen ministerial orders, seventy-one ministerial resolutions, five instructions and an agreement; an uncontrolled regulatory hypertrophy that is a democratic abuse. It has imposed a legal framework to its measure, without reports from the Council of State, without legislative procedure, without economic memory or media or parliamentary debate. The same is true of the Autonomous Communities, which are informed of their arbitrary decisions by the press and which hides the technical reasons why they pass or not in phase or give or not funding to combat the pandemic. Pure administrative despotism. Thus, in these two months they have put a million fines for skipping the confinement using the law that they call gag, but none to the members of the government that have skipped the quarantine. You can identify all those who go for a walk, but not the supposed experts who dictate about our freedoms without more scientific reference than the thumb up or down. [[Applauds]] They send anti-disturbing helicopters to concentrations in Madrid, but put red carpet on the covens in favor of mats in Navarre. Those of us who have lost a relative these days have not been able to fire him, but yesterday the mass funeral in Cordoba of the leader of the United Left was allowed. They suspend all administrative proceedings and close the Transparency Portal, but not the entry of their vice president to the CNI or the appointment to the finger of twenty-six other political positions. They don't even hide in the CIS anymore. If it was already a scandal that in the previous survey asked whether citizens had the right to criticize the Government, they now ask whether the opposition can do so. As Patxi López would ask, but do you know what a democracy is? In these two months he has had time and budget to do two properly cooked election polls - in what already rubble the misappropriation of public revenues in favor of the government party - but he has only been able to do one of the three necessary waves of the seroprevalence survey. And with all this he still wants us to support this extension of a state of alarm that is already a black hole for our public liberties. Mr Sánchez, after supporting you for two months and three extensions without asking for anything in return thirty days ago and again fifteen days ago, I warned you responsibly of our change of vote, always two weeks in advance so that you could also make your own de-escalation towards democratic normality. Our group and others ask you for a plan B, but today you bring back here your failed plan A, and almost multiplied by two if you had not had to give the umpteenth bandage and again leave the resolutions of your Council of Ministers in the water of drunkards. The result is the usual plan D: debt, deficit, waste, unemployment and depression. That is his old normality, that of 1996, that of 2011 and that of today. [[Applauds]] Precisely this week, ten years have passed since the state's biggest welfare cut in our history, which you voted in favour of as a Member of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's Government: freezing pensions, lowering civil servants' salaries and a drastic reduction in the health, social and public investment budgets. Do you remember? It seems that the Socialist is the only ruler who stumbles upon the same stone not two, but three times. And a decade later history repeats itself: the concealment of reality with green sprouts or asymmetrical grapes; attacks on the opposition for asking for explanations with canned patriots or cockatoos; suicidal recipes, such as the E plan or electoral Fridays; reckless arrogance, such as the Champions League or the high-end of success. Even his rifirmrafe with France is a déjà vu from then on. It is that their economic forecasts are not believed by anyone, neither the European Commission nor the Bank of Spain nor the AIReF. With GDP sinking by more than 10%, do they expect us to believe that revenue will fall by only 5%? In order to get an idea of this joke, the previous most drastic fall in the economy was evidently with another PSOE government in 2009, when GDP fell by 3.8% and revenues fell by 17%. No one doubts that he will have to ask Europe for a rescue, and his obligation is to inform the Spaniards of when he will cut the welfare state. Save yourself the mockery of your predecessor presenting the Trichet decree, after a year denying the evidence. Ladies and gentlemen, Julián Marías said that, instead of pivoting about what is going to happen, we need to think about what we are going to do. That is what I proposed last week with the plan Activem España, which we have developed with the best managers who have gone through the government of this country. This alternative plan to save lives and jobs, without violating public freedoms, is similar to that used by the most successful countries in the fight against coronavirus. First, to protect the elderly and the sick with all the resources that lack health and social care or home care. Second, isolate the infected and their contacts from massive tests and automatic alert applications, tracking equipment and immune passports. And third, to delimit the rest of the population, with the obligation to wear masks so that we can return to work and raise the future of our families and Spain. Only then can we live with this virus until there is a vaccine or treatment in months or years without ruining our country or causing problems derived from physical and mental health, even more so with the low rate of immunity that Spain has. The question is, why hasn't the government done this before? For your unpredictability in buying masks. If they were not able to guarantee them or the health workers, who played defenseless life, how would they make them mandatory for the rest? Also for its incompetence to manage the descalation by segmenting by population groups with massive tests. They arrived late and defective and preferred to deal with manipulating rankings rather than doing so. And then for their sectarian ideology, which they have put before effectiveness to fight the pandemic. This week, the government has acknowledged that 600,000 protesters went to 8M and the coroner says there was massive contagion. That was the neutron bomb that was said by the slave actor by Excalibur in his black comedy of Spanish Television on the coronavirus. Mr Sánchez, I do not know whether you are prepared to agree on something in the Reconstruction Committee. I doubt it when I see you've put a communist FARC lawyer as vice president. But we have proposed that we agree on a Cajal state pact for health, care for the elderly and the impetus of Spanish health research and industry. As was done with the Toledo Pact and pensions, we believe that political stability is needed to ensure adequate funding for health and the adaptation of our excellent National Health System to the fight against pandemics. To this end, we propose measures such as strengthening primary, home, telephone and telematic care, as well as creating a centralized repository of protective equipment and a national pool of reinforcement staff. In addition, we propose the establishment of a national public health and care agency with permanent representatives of all autonomous groups, under the command of a state representative, who would also have a specialized unit for monitoring and prevention of pandemics. Ladies and gentlemen, on the economic front, we propose a plan to avoid the rescue and the social cuts to which this government leads us as a car without a driver, downhill and without brakes. We need to regain our country's reputation after the falsehoods sent to Brussels that have eroded our credibility...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u6	Mr. Married, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u7	... failing to meet our commitments to deficit and economic growth. With 18 million Spaniards receiving a public salary or benefit and only 11 million occupied in the private sector, the sustainability of the welfare state is at risk, and that is not managed by a massive increase in taxes, as his Government proposes. A new reform cycle, paralyzed for years, must be launched in order to regain competitiveness and flexibility and bring back foreign investment with legal certainty, fiscal certainty and reduction of labour and bureaucratic costs. Far from the current structural waste policies, a framework must be established to help entrepreneurs and self-employed people create sufficient jobs for all, and to enable them to pay the necessary taxes to support pensions, health care, education and social services. To alleviate the ravages of the crisis we propose to pay immediately the outstanding ERTE and extend them until the end of the year, as well as the termination benefit of self-employed people, and create improved contracts to incorporate workers fired by the crisis of COVID-19. We also plan to increase liquidity for self-employed people and SMEs, who believe they need twice as much as the government has authorized. The flat rate for self-employed people should also be extended and new or re-opened businesses should be taxed after breaking this year. Bureaucratic spending must be reduced with the reduction of an elephantic government, the cancellation of the rise in public office salaries and the boost of digitization, teleworking and market unity laws, second chance and entrepreneurs. In addition, specific plans must be made for the most affected sectors, which is just the opposite of what the Government is doing. The fourth vice president has demonized the car and then the hoteliers, telling them if they don't want them to open. The Ministry of Employment has accused the agricultural sector of slavery and ill-treatment as long as it is pleased that there are 5 million unemployed people who have to receive a benefit.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u8	Mr. Married, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u9	Yes, President. The second vice president called the owners of senior residences corrupt and criticized those of private hospitals, which then use the president of the government and several ministers. The Minister of Consumer Affairs has put sticks in the wheel of commerce and has said that tourism is a precarious, seasonal sector with little added value, which is precisely what many Spaniards of the Government think. The Minister of Education has attacked concerted and special education. And that of Universities, against displaced students and in favor of plagiarism. Ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago I proposed in this House a comprehensive alternative plan to the state of alarm that allows protecting the health of the Spaniards, recovering their democratic freedoms as well; a sort of legal descalation from constitutional exceptionality to the basic legislation in force, as the countries of our environment have already done. As the President of the Commission and the President of the European Council have said, the European Commissioner for Justice has warned that more specific interventions must be made, rather than such broad warning states, and that we must return to the basis of our fundamental values, to the usual system of checks and balances so that citizens can enjoy their rights once again. Last week, the European Union again asked the Spanish to replace...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u10	Mr Casado, I ask you, please, to finish the intervention.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u11	... states of alarm by less intrusive and invasive measures for the rule of law. And the European Parliament's last report points out that, with the exception of Spain, countries have opted for ordinary urgent legislative measures. Therefore, we propose that the single health command be implemented with the General Health Act of 1986, the Cohesion and Quality Act of the National Health System of 2003 and the General Public Health Act of 2011, as has been done in the SARS and Ebola crises. This is what Germany has done in this crisis. Let us not forget that article 116 of the Constitution and the Organic Law of 1981 do not allow the state of alarm more than the limitation of movement at certain times and places. To limit international mobility can be done by decree, as the Government did before the state of alarm with flights to Italy and, by the way, also with the mass meetings and cultural and sporting shows. To limit intra-provincial circulation, it can be done with the contentious-administrative jurisdiction, as happened in several locations before the state of alarm as well. And to limit interprovincial movement, the National Civil Protection System Act and the National Security Act of 2015 can be applied. If a specific decree was to be adopted, as Italy had done, its content could be directed towards the WHO health regulations and the European Convention on Human Rights. And if one wishes to support an organic law, as France has done, article 3 of the Organic Law on Special Measures in the Field of Public Health of 1986 can be applied and amended by emergency and single reading within fifteen days, on the basis of article 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress. Mr Sánchez, you have spent another two weeks adjusting the legal framework beyond the exceptionality you are abusing. You contradict yourself, because you have tried to correct or get an extension of one month until the end, when right here several times you said that you would always stick to the Constitution and the Organic Law of 1981 with a biweekly vote in Parliament. As Felipe González said, correcting is wise, but doing it all the time is foolish. What you wanted...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u12	Mr. Married, you have to finish now, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u13	I'm done, Madam President. ... and not to be controlled by Parliament until September, i.e. to remain three more months with exceptional powers. You are regulating fundamental rights such as assembly, movement, demonstration or religious freedom through ministerial orders, and that is a legal aberration that denotes your lack of respect for the rule of law. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, last week we celebrated the 70th anniversary of the declaration on which European construction is based. Schuman said freedom only scares when the habit of using it is lost. Perhaps that is what you are trying to do by stabilising the population and generating a kind of Stockholm syndrome for which we must thank you for the parole granted to us to leave in the fringes and conditions that you arbitrarily decide until the curfew of eleven o'clock at night. Mr Sánchez, you have already exceeded the limits in an unsustainable abuse of constitutional exceptionality. [[Rumors]] The State is not you, however much your propaganda machinery compares you to the Sun King. He is only the President of the Government with the least electoral support in the history of democracy. Perhaps because of this delusion of grandeur, you are calling for an indefinite state of alarm that limits the democratic freedoms of the Spaniards. But it can no longer hide that there is an alternative plan to ensure health without ruining the economy or violating the rule of law and our freedoms. You said there was no plan B, but we gave it to you in one piece. And I'm done, Madam President. [[applause and laughter.- Rumours]] We must activate Spain in order to restore hope to millions of young people without work and tranquillity to our parents and grandparents, without leaving our children and grandchildren mortgaged. Tomorrow is in our hands, there is light at the end of the tunnel and the PP will always be at the service of the Spaniards to get out of this crisis; we are capable and we will achieve it. The Government has been overcome by the crisis, but the Spaniards will overcome it despite the Government; that Spain from the balconies that lifts the flag of freedom, of defending well-being, prosperity and our future as a nation, that is, what your Government is incapable of doing, Mr Sánchez. For once think about the general interest instead of thinking about your own and changing course, to avoid shipwreck. After two months of giving him the maximum powers, which had never been given since the opposition to the Government, his balance sheet of management of this crisis is an erial. Yours is all responsibility, for you have not wanted to count on anyone at any time. That is why he will be remembered, and history, contrary to what his admired Castro said, will not absolve him. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u14	Thank you, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Rincón. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are attending the debate on the umpteenth extension of a state of emergency, no longer hidden but shameless, which you want to prolong forever, and you want to do so for two reasons: firstly, because of your guilty incompetence and, secondly, because of your unbounded sectarianism. Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias - although he has recently risen from the seat, we know that he listens to us through the internal circuit from the cafeteria or from his office - no one trusts the figures you give, not even the figures of the dead, which tell us that there are 27,000, but rather that there are 50,000, even if we know them. To all the families of the deceased we want once again to convey our condolences to them, but also our promise that we will not rest until justice is done. Because we are before a government not only guilty but also it seems irresponsible, a government that, according to the words of the President of the Government, has apparently had nothing to do with the health catastrophe: either it was inevitable, and it has told us the situation of other countries, obviating that we are at the head of the number of deaths per inhabitant; or it is the fault of everyone, even of all the media, to whom Mr Sánchez has today blamed for having been undermining the importance of the virus, or it was the fault of others, primarily of Madrid - what a shame yours, Mr Simancas! But it turns out that we already know the roles of Fernando Simon, we already know the paper of Dr. Simon. You knew the lethality of the virus, its consequences, and the way it infected humans on February 10, and on March 8 at noon you already knew that the contagions had been fired in Madrid. That means, Mr. Sanchez, that you are guilty. Ladies and gentlemen, if any of us here are driving our vehicle while we look at our telephone schedule, we hit a pedestrian and die we will be tried for reckless murder and we could be sentenced to prison between a year and four years. Well, the government was driving Spain just looking at its ideological agenda, hiding information from the Spaniards and causing the deaths of thousands of our compatriots. Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, you are only thinking of how to protect yourself and how to deceive us, and now you have invented that of the asymmetrical state of alarm, which is nothing more than an euphemism to tell us that in Spain the separatists continue to rule; to confess that the political agenda of socialists and communists is shared with the separatists, that is, with the accomplices of the investiture, who do not want the same criteria or the same rights to prevail in Spain, that is, what they have always wanted for decades. Can you tell us what you have tried to agree with the Republican Left of Catalonia or what you have agreed with the Basque Nationalist Party? You use euphemism permanently, co-governance, and you what you do is something else, you surrender the sovereignty and power of all in exchange for exclusively personal power, because you already only care to stay in power as it is, in exchange for whatever it is and with whomever it is, Mr Sánchez. It is clear that they rule on Basque land and that those other lords rule on Catalan land, where the Constitution no longer prevails, mainly because of their irresponsibility, although in this I must say that you are not the only culprit. You, Mr. Sanchez, cling to the state of emergency like holding on to a burning nail. You said - and you have come to repeat it today - that without a state of alarm we would have had 300,000 dead, another scientific report that you get off your sleeve. And I say to you that if you - and I say this in just correspondence - Mr Illa, Mr Simon and Mr Iglesias had not hidden information from the Spanish and protected them, they would have saved the lives of more than 30 000 of our compatriots. And I also tell you that this covert state of emergency would not have been applied that not only does not save lives but is sinking and destroying the national economy. But the worst of all is that you have also settled - and we have seen it during these weeks - in political thugs and blackmail. [[Rumors]] You came to threaten this House and the Spanish by blackmailing that the Spanish would not charge the ERTE if this opposition did not approve you of the state of alarm, and the truth is that there are more than 900 000 Spaniards, according to the Official College of Managers, who are not charging the ERTE since March. There are families who have not entered anything since March and who have nothing to eat for their harmful management. I mean, you don't pay, but your vice president gets tired of running a permanent and daily campaign on minimum income, because here the first thing you know is what it is? Its own shield and, therefore, in the first place, give money to televisions and acolyte artists and it seems that the social shield and the workers are always the last. [[Applauds]] Mr Iglesias, a few days ago, you also threatened the elderly and blackmailed this House by saying that residences would not be improved if the Members we are here did not approve their budgets, using the elderly as hostages and blackmailing the opposition. But I must say that using the elderly as hostages is little to do with letting them die in unprotected residences, and you, Mr. Churches, have done both. Because Mr. Iglesias has never liked the old, and I use his jargon, not mine. I literally read the words of Mr. Iglesias: There are people who are going to die from old age because they are an age in which, with seventy and beaks, they will last as long as Anguita, but, like the corpse of the Cid on horseback, they are not old, there are people of twenty and beaks, of thirty and beaks and of forty and beaks; I believe that there are older people who have to take the example of Ratzinger and take the helicopter and go to Castel Gandolfo, to shit or wherever they want. This is the sensitivity of the Vice-President of the Government to the elderly. These words are not invented by the opposition. By the way, I take the opportunity to convey our group's condolences to Mr. Anguita's family and friends. I'm glad you were able to fire him and accompany him at his last moments. I would have liked them to do so with some more security measures, but no matter what, I am glad; just as I am angry and angry at many Spaniards that hundreds of thousands of our compatriots, and I say hundreds of thousands, have not been able to accompany their relatives and friends at the last moments of their lives or at the farewell at their funeral, because you have forbidden them and because you continue to forbid them, rather than giving them the necessary means and security measures to hold dignified funerals and burials. [[Applauds]] Or, ladies and gentlemen, do you have to have the communist card to be able to fire our dead relatives and friends? Ladies and gentlemen, the worst is not just the sectarianism of the government. You - as I said - have settled in blackmail and thugs as a way of doing politics. That is why we, before your songs of unity, Mr Sánchez, are not going to forget the words of the Vice-President of the Government, his Vice-President, calling in this very rostrum four million Spaniards fifteen days ago. And let us not forget that your vice president yesterday encouraged the enslavement against the homes of several of the Members here. Mr. Churches, we are not going to forget your words in any way. If you don't like to be vice president and like to go back for your own sake, at least don't send your lackeys; come to our homes yourself. Mr. Iglesias, I must say that we are tired of seeing you with your priestly airs on television or in this pulpit calling for consensus, while then, suddenly, you appear with those modes of Largo Caballero calling civil war from the rostrum of Congress, as you did here fifteen days ago; by the way, with the help of that Castroist agent, who is your friend Monedero, who has been allowed to call nothing more and nothing less than hemophilics the protesters who were protesting against your government these days. All as you disguise yourselves as democrats and ascend Mr. Churches to this rostrum to identify your own ideas with democracy; communism and democracy. Mr. Iglesias, go with that music somewhere else, and before you talk about democracy wash your mouth and, above all, clean up the totalitarian trail that you left on the Internet supporting friends of the terrorist band ETA and all kinds of drug addictions. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, which we identify as a liberticide government, which has caused the death of thousands and the ruin of millions, we find ourselves in a party, such as Citizens, which has decided to be useful to the Socialcommunist government supported by the separatists, that is to say to the Sánchez band, and to be useless to the Spaniards. It seems that the Basque Nationalist Party is the new model of Citizens, which seems to only want to be a hinge and wants to be placed in an equidistant position right now before a government that is attacking public freedoms. Citizens have not, moreover, been enough to support this illegal state of emergency, but have also slipped through the slope - some of their charges - of insults to demonstrators. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the only plan of this government is to sink the economy and impoverish the Spanish. I believe it and I regret it because it seems to me that it is not a consequence of its political incompetence, no, I think it is a deliberate plan of the communist partners of this government. Instead of subsidizing employment, as VOX proposed to you three months ago, you have dedicated yourselves to promoting unemployment and subsidizing unemployment so that millions of Spaniards will end up living without another remedy, without another alternative, of those minimum incomes that depend on the grace and will of Mr. Iglesias, very close to the rations with which you, Mr. Sánchez, warned us when referring to Mr. Iglesias. Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, you want to lead the Spaniards to the acceptance of a kind of voluntary servitude as a result of the despair caused by their policies, so your deliberate effort to destroy the key sectors of our economy: the automotive sector, the primary sector and the tourism sector, one third of the national economy. As far as the car sector is concerned, this week we have seen Nissan's intention to close his plant in Catalonia, which will mean the destruction of 3000 direct jobs and 21,000 indirect jobs. From VOX we have been warning you all this time of the harmful consequences of your policy against cars and diesel, and here are the consequences in the form of unemployment and poverty for many Spaniards. You have spent the last few years attacking an industry, that of the car, which is essential for Catalonia, for the Basque Country, for Galicia, for Castile and León, for Andalusia, and this week in the midst of the pandemic you have allowed yourself the luxury of decreeing that in 2050 or 2040 - I don't know when you have said - there will be no diesel or petrol anymore. You can't be more irresponsible! As far as the tourism sector is concerned, Mr Garzón's words are not only an offence, but are characteristic of someone completely ignorant of the sector which acts irresponsibly and led by its ideological fanaticism, coupled, by the way, with the unilateral measure of applying a quarantine, as you have said, to all travellers arriving in Spain for fourteen days without offering any kind of alternative plan through tests that could identify people who are infected. That is, you with your position have sunk any hope of recovery from the high season of tourism that begins within a month. No wonder Mr Garzón doesn't like tourists, except when he does. I say this because I usually wear T-shirts with the shield of East Germany, which is the country that raised a wall and shot all those who intended to escape from it. As for the primary sector, you have been allowed during these days, in the face of the outrage of many farmers and farmers, to invent a new inspection to attack farmers and make them suspects of slavery, and you dare to do this when you have been promoting or signing international treaties that allow the import of foreign products produced in many cases with slave labour. Are you like this? You guys hit each other? Where did you come from? How in the midst of the pandemic do they dare to attack the three basic sectors of our economy that represent one third of the national economy? By the way, when are they going to admit that they're going to have to ask for a ransom that's going to involve cutting public salaries and cutting pensions? When are they going to tell the Spaniards what the exact cost of their harmful policies is? I repeat this because I have the impression that you are not going to confess it and that you are going to extend that information over time, because you, as I said before, want to protect yourself and protect yourself from the Spanish. You came up to that rostrum in March, Mr. Sánchez, to alert you of the ultra-right bots on social media. They are being filled with bots streets, they are being filled with bots balconies, they are being filled with bots throughout Spain, with Spaniards protesting against their government and demanding the resignation of Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias. The revolt of balconies, pots and masks is unstoppable, no matter how much you use disinformation campaigns or how much your government delegations or the Citizens' Health Councils are prevented from doing so. The civicism of the Spaniards, who are going out to manifest themselves in the streets while maintaining the distance of security and with masks, is an example in the face of the incisiveness of a government and of some members, such as the vice president, who broke his own quarantine to attend a Council of Ministers. [[Applauds]] These are the modes of the left, just as their political mode has always been to divide societies, as they are doing at this time. I conclude, Madam President. To the left has never liked the nation, has preferred the class struggle and, as that has already failed - I see that it is grace to Mr Errejón -, you have now invented the struggle of neighborhoods and have tried to catalog the Spaniards among those living in an affluent neighborhood and in a humble neighborhood and have wanted to say to the whole of Spain and the whole world that only the Spaniards who lived in the street Núñez de Balboa were protesting, with insults calling them hemophilic, calling them 'Cayetanos', with the stupid help of Citizens in this case. Well, the revolt of the pots and masks has already spread throughout all the neighborhoods - humble, well-accommodated, popular - and throughout Spain, and you will not be able to stop it for as long as Mr Marlaska, who is the one who signs the prohibitions so that the Spaniards, safely and inside vehicles, can manifest themselves in Catalonia. I'm done. You, Mr Sánchez, and you, Mr Iglesias, I believe that you have no remedy, no scruples, no apology, and therefore I would like to appeal from this rostrum to all the Spaniards, to vote for what they vote for, to live where they live, to join the caravan of vehicles on 23 May to demand the resignation of a government that with its criminal management has led to the ruin of millions of Spaniards and to the death of thousands. Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, pay and leave at once. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u16	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Echenique Robba has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Out of respect for this House, I will not call demonstrations in full alarm or abuse my time as Mr Pablo Casado. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, Mr President, compatriots, said a few days ago in this Chamber the spokesman minister Maria Jesús Montero: 'We are bad, but less bad that we are'. I liked the phrase very much and allow myself to make it mine in this intervention because I think it is a great truth. It's true we're wrong. We are still in the worst epidemic in a hundred years; we are still in it, we should not forget it. More than two million compatriots have been infected, according to the seroprevalence test and, as the president said, we have had more than 27,000 people killed by COVID-19 in our country. That is why I would like to begin by expressing my condolences and that of my parliamentary group and all the affection for our political strength to the people, the families of the deceased and the people who have suffered. I would also like to send our thanks to the health workers, to the doctors, to the nurses, also to the working people who have guaranteed the supply, which has allowed us all and all to live through the confinement. Finally, I would like to thank the people of our country, society, our people, for the enormous exemplaryness that they have shown, far superior to that of other countries, which, together with the measures that the Government has taken, has been key so that today we can begin to see the light at the end of the tunnel. It has been extremely difficult to get here and I wanted to thank all the people who have made it possible. We're bad, but less bad we are. It is a pity that this Government acted before other developed countries that can be approved by us, with a large influx of travellers. I'm going to give you WHO data, Mr. Married. I know you don't like data, you don't like science, you don't like scientists, but I'm going to give it to you, because unlike you and unlike Mr. Abascal, the data don't lie. According to the data, Spain decreed the confinement of its population with 120 dead and about 4000 infected; France did so with 148 dead and more than 6000 infected; the United Kingdom, with 281 dead and more than 5000 infected; Italy, with 463 dead and more than 9000 infected; and the United States, we do not know very well what it is doing, beyond the fact that its president recommends injecting disinfectant to fight the coronavirus. We are wrong, but less wrong than we are, because the measures of this government and the responsibility of the people have managed to bend the curve and see the light at the end of the tunnel. Good thing we're here, and good thing you're not here, Mr. Married, because one thing has changed in the last few weeks, and we now know what you would have done in our place, Mr. Married. Until recently, you performed a rather curious conceptual dance, to say something, you expressed a series of very sensible obligations: you have to get masks - you have done it again here today - you have to protect the toilets, you have to protect the elderly, of course, but what you never said is how to do it, and then some infidel might have imagined that you would know, in fact, how to do these things that France, the United Kingdom, Italy or the United States have not been able to do. As we were faced with an unprecedented situation and had nothing to compare with, it seemed impossible to know for certain how you, Mr. Casado, would have managed the epidemic in our place, and this allowed you, and allowed you, to shoot the Government of Spain with impunity and say that the Government is doing everything wrong and so, some infidel might think that you would have done it better, might think that you would have been a super-governor far above others. But these last few weeks you've been spoiled by the trick, Mr. Married, it doesn't work anymore, now we know exactly how you would have done it in our place and we know it because you told us yourself. You, in our place, would have acted as Isabel Díaz Ayuso in the Community of Madrid; the revelation panics with just imagining it. You could have pointed to Moreno Bonilla or Fernández Mañueco, also autonomous presidents of the People's Party, but not, his example to follow, his model is that of Díaz Ayuso. You have come to say that Ayuso is an icon and José María Aznar - the one who miserably lied to the Spaniards after the worst terrorist attack in our history - recently blessed her as a crusade against the children of 'North Cuban'. In parentheses, and if I may give advice, Mr. Married, it is normal that Mr. Aznar, also connected to the American media far right, likes the trumpist style with which Ayuso bursts the public conversation saying a new barbarity every day. But if I were you, Mr. Married, I would be alert to the rear viewer, our particular chastity Trump seems to have proposed to become the leader of the opposition to the government and you know, Mr. Married, that there is only one leader of the opposition, but, well, for the moment, the head of the PP is you and Ayuso is your icon and your example to follow. It is a clear message that has chosen the autonomous community with more accumulated dead and more accumulated infected; it is already a clear message that has chosen the second autonomous community with more dead and infected per 100,000 inhabitants. In fact, Mr Casado - check the data -, Spain is not the country with the most dead and infected per 100 000 inhabitants; in fact, if we do not include the Community of Madrid in the calculation, Spain becomes the seventh country, not the first, the seventh, to be the twelfth country with the most infected per 100 000 inhabitants and, if we remove the Community of Madrid from the calculation, Spain becomes the fourth country with the most dead per 100 000 inhabitants to be the sixth. If we remove the Madrid Community from the calculation, the epidemiological data of Spain improve considerably. You send a very clear message by choosing Ayuso's management as a model, Mr. Married, a worrying but clear message. I ask you not to insult the intelligence of the Spaniards by repeating that the Government of Spain, the Socialcommunist Government, was left with all the competences, first because you know that that is a lie, you know that the state of alarm does not work that way, but that is that, moreover, if the Government of Spain was left with all the competences, what sense does Ayuso have to take away from the success of Ifema? It would in any case be a success for the Socialcommunist Government, wouldn't it? As a famous tweeter wrote the other day: 'Let's see if I find out. Madrid was a chaos because of the government, which was managing. But Ayuso has managed great, although she did not manage, because she managed the government.' Don't take the Spaniards for idiots, Mr. Casado. Although there is a single command, the autonomous communities have retained their competences, and in exercise of these competences, Ayuso, his model, his example to follow, has the worst epidemiological indicators in Spain. We are wrong, but less wrong that we are, Mr Casado, because now that we already know what you would have done in our place, Mr Casado, we know for example that you would have indicated from the Ministry of Health that vulnerable children throughout the country would eat pizza, and then you would have promoted Telepizza from the Presidency of the Government, of course singing the praises of public-private collaboration. Although you have not stopped criticizing the government for some failed purchases of sanitary material in an obviously difficult market for all the countries of the world, now that we know that Ayuso is your example to follow, now that we know that Ayuso is your model, we already know what you would have done in our place. You would have done what Ayuso did, Mr. Casado, you would have announced to drum and platter the purchase of millions of FFP2 masks from a Chinese company and then we would have discovered that the certificates were fake while the company disappeared suspiciously from the Internet. Now that we know that your model is Ayuso, we know that you, Mr Casado, would have jumped from the Government of Spain, as Mrs Ayuso does, demonstrations in the most powerful neighborhoods that endanger the health of everyone, that put at risk what we have all achieved in society to get here, and in addition to those who attend - this is not an opinion, this is a fact - known neo-Nazis who then hang photos on social networks using t-shirts in which they put: 'Adolf Hitler was right'. We know that you would have jaded these manifestations in a state of alarm, as I say, because Ayuso has jaded them. Perhaps, if you were president of the government, Mr. Married, God forbid, you would have gone to live during the epidemic two or three floors of more than 400 square meters in a luxury hotel gifted by a hotelier friend of yours, friend of Mrs. Ayuso and apparently also friend of Albert Rivera, investigated for tax fraud, and maybe you would have had to go out and say when they caught you that it wasn't free, that the 400 square meters of luxury with garage, security and cleanliness, were worth 80 bucks a night, like a 15 square meters room in a three-star hotel in low season. Perhaps, if you were in our place and your example to follow is Ayuso, Mr. Pablo Casado, the smell of corruption would not be running at this time of the Sun Gate... [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u18	Quiet, please. [[Mr. Echaniz Salgado utters words that are not perceived]] Mr. Echaniz, I'm asking for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u19	Thank you, Madam President. It seems that the best education is not given in private schools, as Mr. Rufián once said. As I was saying, if you were in our place, Mr. Married, and your example to follow is Ayuso, as you yourself said, perhaps the smell of corruption would not be emanating at this time from the Sun Gate, but directly from the Palace of Moncloa. Although your parliamentary group has put forward an initiative not to discriminate against older people on grounds of age to access ICUs - by the way, a measure that the Government has already issued more than forty-five days ago, and that I assume you did not read - although you have tried to make noise with this, now that we know that Ayuso is your example to follow, we have a certain idea of what you would have done in our place. Just see what has happened in Madrid. There was an order not to medicalize residences, while some hospitals in Madrid generally ruled that patients from residences should not be admitted. Recently, Mrs. Ayuso said in an interview: 'If there have been technical and sanitary criteria that tell you that this person is also going to die, that he better stay there, I cannot question him now in cold and past bull'. We're bad, but less bad that we are, Mr. Married, less bad that we are. Finally, and although you have been the most belligerent a posteriori captain in favor of early confinement and against international feminism, although you have accused the Government of Spain a thousand times of being late, now that we know that Ayuso is your example to follow, we are clear what you would have done in our place in March. Mrs Ayuso wants to delimit at full speed, although she has not yet prepared the primary care mechanisms, the testing capacity and the tracking capacity to contain rebounds. This, against health experts, medical schools and nurses, and obviating that countries that have managed the epidemic as well as Germany, Singapore, Japan or South Korea have already experienced rebounds. This is your example to follow, Mr. Casado. In March, if you had been in our place, you would have delayed the confinement by business pressures and you would never have decreed the closure of the non-essential activity. Today we would have tens of thousands of additional deaths, Mr. Married, if you were in our place. And you don't even have to look at Ayuso's huge irresponsibility, his model to follow. You yourself here today, Mr. Casado, are going to vote for total decontainment on Sunday, massive contagion and resurgence...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u20	Mr. Echenique, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u21	Yes, I'm done, President. You are going to vote here today, as you said, for total decontainment on Sunday, massive contagion and the safe rebound to the cry of: Freedom! [[Rumors.-A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u22	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u23	Don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, there's no lack of respect for anyone who wants to, but who can. [[Applauds]] As I said before the interruption, you, Mr. Married, are going to vote here today for total decontainment on Sunday - this is a fact - for massive contagion as a result of this deconstriction and for the sure resurgence of the cry of: Freedom! We're bad, but less bad that we are, and less bad that you're not. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u24	Thank you, Mr. Echenique. [[A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum used by Mr. Echenique Robba]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. She's very nervous right this morning. In fact, it is the bench of Núñez de Balboa Street, so I start by answering to Mr. Casado and Mr. Abascal. You have used the dead - in fact, one of you has even used one of your relatives - to attack the burial of Julio Anguita. How many miseries - and there are many - have been said in this Chamber, I would say that this is the worst. You're lucky Julio Anguita isn't here today to answer them, you're very lucky. All I can tell you is that you wash your mouth before you talk about Julio Anguita. It said, precisely, Julio Anguita, the best of all there have been here, that the principles are not negotiated. I start with an already recurring spoiler in these homilies we make every fortnight. With all due respect, whoever seeks in this speech a coaching session, to go to a gym; who seeks dogmas or irremovable apriorisms, to go to a church; the politician is a public servant, not a public relations. On the one hand, we ask politicians not to childish, to tell the truth, and on the other hand, we ask that they not say ugly things, that they do not bother. My commitment here today is to tell the truths how ugly and uncomfortable they are and the truth is this: we have failed - we have failed -. Everyone, those who know it and those who don't know it yet, who are a few. Some because they don't know how to negotiate and others because they don't know how to explain it. If fifteen days ago we grieve many people, today we grieve and anger even more people; we rage because we are here today, literally, taking ourselves forward, perhaps irremediably, the spirit of investiture; a spirit that aroused a great deal of illusion in many people; a spirit that was a lever for progressiveism, but also - and that is what you are forgetting, ladies and gentlemen of the Government - was a dyke of containment for fascism. Here's how terribly dangerous what's going on. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and the United Nations We can, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, are giving tickets to the extreme right and to the extreme right in a raffle that one day they can win. Citizens can dress moderate right for a while, but, believe me, Mrs. Arrimadas, with all due respect, is not Merkel, is Cospedal. Ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations Can we, do you know why the government approves real necessary social decrees - insufficient but necessary - with us and the extensions of the state of alarm with the right, with Citizens? Why? Because they are unnecessarily reactionary and re-centralizing, what less than approving it with a reactionary party. Today the apostles of the 'worst, better' are a little closer to getting it, on one side and on the other, with one flag and the other. Negotiations in politics are sweaty, they are not expected; geometry without axioms is like a tree without roots, it is false, it is a lie, it falls. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, are constantly playing variable geometry under a false axiom: I am the best thing between everything there is, or I or nothing. They play to remain irremediable, they play to convince by default and not by consensus; that is, they play blackmail. And that, one day it's over. You sell that because the Republican Left make it very difficult for me, so you push me to negotiate with Citizens; I don't want to, but you buy it cheaper for me. That, I repeat, comes a day that ends, because the right always, always, buys cheaper, more flags on the balconies and less help for people. What difference does it make to the People's Party of Citizens? What difference does it make if they even share home, Kike Sarasola? It's the same. The only positive thing is that Marcos de Quinto fire Citizens, no longer fire workers. It's the only positive thing, but it's the same right and at least one of you knows it perfectly. The truth is that the truth matters little, in politics it matters very little. They once asked Berlusconi, before his umpteenth scandal and case of corruption, that in what could affect him all that, and he answered, with that false wig and with that smile of whom he always commands: Nothing, it will affect me in nothing because the truth does not change anything. That's what he said, the truth doesn't change anything. The truth is that fifteen days ago we went up to this rostrum to defend the vote against its state of alarm - I repeat, its state of alarm - and to defend that there was an alternative, that the dichotomy between its state of alarm or decontainment, between its state of alarm or misery, between its state of alarm or life, was not true; that the dichotomy between rights or health, between health or freedom, between blind obedience or disloyalty, was false, was perversely false. And we fell - I fell - high-end blows: selfish, supremacist, philofascist, not the time for your battles of flags and competitions, they told us. Twenty-four hours later, the Government began talking about co-governance and that the autonomous communities would regain their powers. Everything falls if the state of alarm falls; you vote against the people, the aid, the moratoriums; the people will not charge the ERT. Forty-eight hours later, the Government extended the ERTE outside the state of alarm. The truth does not change anything, but the truth, once again, is that today we do not see the refusal of the Republican Left to its state of alarm. The truth is that here today, once again and perhaps definitively, we see the government's refusal to negotiate anything with the Republican Left. They have chosen to the right, no more or less. And not in one hundred and fifty speeches, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the most progressive, plurinational and dialogueal government in history will ever be able to justify that, with a republican and left-wing alternative, they chose those who govern with those who cut off against macho violence, with VOX, in Andalusia or who voted together with those who distribute pans among Fascism with Ayuso in Madrid. This is so, even Compromís, who are not suspected of being independenceists, vote against them; for something it will be. The truth is this: Esquerra Republicana wanted - wanted - to sign a political agreement with the government that would serve for now and tomorrow, because in politics one cannot live every fifteen days. Left Republican asked for five things, in exchange for thirteen votes; very clear, from the zero minute. The first, co-responsibility. Those who know the territory better can co-exist. Let there be more to the advice of autonomy than mere data transmitters for, with all due respect to Mr Illa, a ministry emptied in Madrid as it is the Ministry of Health is not the one who makes the decisions in a unique way. In other words, we simply asked that the councils of autonomy cease to be managers, simply. And they told us no, they told us no; in fact, they called us disloyal. By the way, Mr President, you said that the Autonomous Communities have never lost their competences and at the same time you said that the Autonomous Communities will recover their competences. How do you eat this? Two, paid benefit for the family reconciliation of families - a little nationalist, eh?-, especially for single parents and even more especially for'monomarentales'. That people do not have to choose between their children and their work, and more now; between contagion and abandonment, and more now. Do you know the anxiety that causes hundreds of thousands of people today not to know where to leave their sons and daughters? Let's help them. Is that selfish? No, it's humanity. And they told us no. By the way, the same week the government spent EUR 21 billion on tanks. There was no money. Three, flexibilization of the remaining municipal surplus. Muscle to the first administration that people will turn to when all this happens. Common sense. That the municipalities can allocate money that is now in the bank to social assistance! Is that irresponsible? No, it's municipalism, you have to believe it. And they told us no. By the way, the same week that a mayor of the PSC in Catalonia wanted to declare persona non grata to the councilwoman of Salut Alba Vergés. Four, do not repeat the same mistakes in the face of a resurgence in the future; that is, to amend the Organic Law of the state of alarm of 1981 - I had not yet been born - and to reform the Law of Public Health in order to shield autonomous competences, to delimit functions and to strengthen coordination between administrations; that is, to establish, because it can - because it can - a less damaging autonomous and state framework for freedoms and rights. Is that absurd? No, it's democracy. And they told us no. By the way, the same week that a million fines were paid during this confinement thanks to the Law gag. By the way, how many fines have been imposed on Nuñez de Balboa? Five, narrow the dialogue and negotiation table down in time. Why? Because repression continues, because the problems cannot be postponed, because Amnesty International says it is barbaric, and because any full democracy cannot afford to have political prisoners in prison. It's just that it's very simple to understand, it's very simple. [[Applauds]] Is that inappropriate? No, it's political. And they told us no, and they told us the same week that the prosecution appealed the freedom of our comrades and allowed the freedom of Carlos García Juliá, one of the fascist murderers of the labor lawyers in Atocha, the same week. That is, we called for co-responsibility in decision-making, aid for people, municipalism, armor of freedoms and dialogue - and dialogue - in exchange for thirteen votes, and the most progressive government response in history was no, we already have Citizens. That's it. Blank it as you like, or as you can. Why would they vote for a state of alarm that they only conceive of as a cage for people? Why vote for a state of alarm without social benefits? Saving people isn't just putting them in their homes, it's not just saving them from the virus, it's saving them from misery, hunger and insecurity, which is what Esquerra Republicana wanted to do, remember. Today they do not disappoint a parliamentary group, today they disappoint all the people of Catalonia; 80% of the population of Catalonia is in this. I'm done with two messages, Madam President. The first, for the compañeros and compañeras of the United Nations We can: the PSOE today sacrifices to the Republican Left in exchange for the votes of Citizens; if they keep quiet - they will keep quiet -, tomorrow it can be the minimum income vital, tomorrow it can be the reduction of VAT in the socio-health material, tomorrow it can be the moratorium of mortgages or rents. If you think the right is going to stop with us, once again we tell you they're wrong. Get out on the street and see it: sanitary running and rich contagious, that's what's going on on the street. If they continue with that of neither lions nor Christians, the lions will one day eat them as well. The second message is for all of us, for the left: if we are not able to come to terms with life, how are we going to deal with everything else? If we are not able to agree to a global pandemic, how are we going to deal with the budgets, in front of the negotiating table, in the face of the recovery of lost civil, social and labour rights?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u26	Mr. Rufián, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u27	I'm done, Madam President. The question left-wing people ask outside is what we serve for, if we serve for anything more than tweeting, to go to a TV set or to dig even deeper trenches. It's up to us. The Anguita, the Genoese and the fascist torturer Antonio González Pacheco, aka Billy the Child dying with the medals on, and now this. The truth is, these are bad times. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u28	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Rincón. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u29	Mr. Sanchez, we're back here in a session of what already looks like the Marmot Plenary. Since March 12, we explained to you that another management of the pandemic was possible, but you have a particular modus operandi. From the entrance, the reelings are made. The Generalitat de Catalunya has always received an initial no when not the silence for reply then, within four days to two weeks, without assuming any self-criticism, see how its proposals are adopted by this government. In this line, yesterday we attended the umpteenth chapter of the festival of confusion that are generating in the wavering management of this crisis. It turns out that, finally, as President Torra proposed, masks will be mandatory from tomorrow in closed spaces and on the street. But do you know what's going on? That, even if everyone is to cover their faces tomorrow, their government has fallen all masks during this pandemic. Neither are they the most progressive government in history, nor is Spain the most decentralized country in the world, as has been highlighted above all. Let us hope, at least, to be able to get out of this crisis vaccinated against its marketing and its propaganda. His latest invention in this area is the co-governance proposal that we have never bought them, because it is such an inconcrete concept that there is neither in the dictionary nor, in any case, would be conceptually incompatible with the existence of a single authority. Come on, it's a full-fledged oxymoron. This time, however, it seemed that there was a willingness to listen, but the same has always happened, a lot of noise and few nuts. We are a formation of government and, therefore, from the very beginning has guided us in the service and attention to our fellow citizens and, at the same time, the preservation of individual and collective rights that should be implicit in any democratic society and that too often in the Spanish State shines out of their absence. Decontainment progresses in phases, but the autonomous state recedes to pre-statutory phases. Do you realize that we are demanding that you recover the health management in Catalonia that we have been exercising for forty years? To vote in favour of the extension of his Government's state of alarm would be to vote in favour of the extension of the overthrow of Catalonia's self-government. That is why we will again say no, because you deny us the right to decide how to manage the state of alarm in Catalonia. We repropose decentralization and effective management to you and you re-choose centralism and erratic management. They insist on the centralist model of the single command, but it must be unique because no other country in our environment has done things the way this Government has done. No other European State has forced the mechanisms provided for in its ordinary systems, and this should be the cause of a state of alarm. We will say no again, because you have said no to all our proposals. He asked us for alternatives to his state of alarm and we put them on top of the table, five very clear points that are summarized - now yes - in one point: return of competences. Ours is not a consistent and persistent non-compliance. It is you who are installed in the no when you talk to us. Fifteen days ago they made it clear that their alternative, their plan C, was Citizens. The Spanish Government has agreed as never before, but it is in charge as always. From the'red before that broken' we passed to the 'even orange before that co-governed'. Once a pact with what Citizens represent - what we in Catalonia know very well - can be an accident; twice it can be a coincidence; the next time the same will already be the new normality they preach. Maybe they were thinking about it when they coined such a dystopic concept. The coronavirus has acted as a crisis accelerator that already existed and we may be facing a new paradigm shift. One element that should certainly not be the way it used to be is precisely Catalonia's relationship with Spain. You point the way when you liquidate the autonomies. It's okay, that's what we agree on. Our new normality is to hope that it will be the creation of a State of its own that can decide a confinement to save lives without having to ask for permission or wait for fifteen days; a State that can decide to close borders because epidemiological experts advise it; a State that puts its resources at the disposal of its citizens in the face of an unprecedented crisis; a State that does not have to come to one of the most important human rights associations in the world to demand that it respect the right to assembly and demonstration, and to demand the immediate release of political prisoners. I'm done, President. A year ago - just a year ago - this House received our colleagues who were already political prisoners and had not yet been unjustly convicted. They, like the victims of the exile with President Puigdemont at the head, have been tried to silence them and make them disappear from political life in vain. It is me and we are all voices of Junts per Catalunya to reiterate to them that, with or without a pandemic, politics should only use political tools to resolve political differences and that the adversary is only defeated in the ballot box. We are here to remind you that independence has won, wins and will win in the polls in Catalonia. You know why? Because we defend the best for women and men in Catalonia with consistency and we will do so as many times as we need. That is why they are listening again today not to the Government of Spain, which is a yes to the Government of Catalonia, a yes to political legitimacy and a yes to the best possible management for Catalan society. Look at the paradox, it's also the best thing for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, we told you two weeks ago that the government was going out with fewer feathers from the previous plenary, and today we see before our eyes how the block of investiture begins to fade, and believe me that they will need it. Today I would like to call for respect for the forces that have changed their positions and that are not going to support the extension of the state of alarm and I would like to call for the reconstruction of the bloc that made it possible for a government that was invested to move forward, because with the change of partners we are not going to go very far if it is social justice measures, protection of citizens and ecological transformation. We have told you several times that we must take care of the allies, and for us taking care of the allies are not just words, it is listening to some of the proposals. We said here that there were many families who, with closed schools, had difficulty in knowing what they were going to do with their children; we said that it was imperative to set up a 50 % paid leave for the day, just as for men as for women. Inexplicably, the two parties of the Government voted no. I do not even ask you to recognize me who the proposal is, but these are things of common sense that have to be put into effect. The investiture was not a blank check, it was a support to move forward. We also told them what it has to do with bringing applause to the Constitution by shielding an investment floor for public health. The situation of uncertainty and exceptionality has ended. Today many groups in this Parliament need to know what we can stick to. Please note today, Mr President, because we may be the only partners in the investiture that we are not in the government that we are going to support today. The extension of the state of alarm today is going to come out for us. We do not ask to charge us anything in return, but let no one forget it: the extension of the state of alarm today will come out by our votes. And our vote in favour, as always, is not a blank cheque, it is neither an institutionalist vote nor the parties, but it has to do with immense respect for the Spanish people. Before, Mr. Abascal - who is not here either - said that I had some sort of obsession with dividing people into neighborhoods. No, man, no; it is inequality that divides people into neighborhoods, that makes if you are born in one neighborhood or another you can live up to seven years more or seven years less. Mr. Abascal doesn't mind that, he doesn't mind his name; it's the life expectancy that divides people, not the name that there is inequality. He was a little right, Mr. Married, when he said that the class struggle no longer existed. Of course, there is something like a class beating, in which some do not name it and others do systematically what they want, and when the thing goes wrong, you have to rescue them with everyone's money. It has been said many times that the virus does not understand territories, that it does not understand of origin... Yes, you do. I've been looking at several studies. One study says that in Barcelona, in the richest neighborhoods, the infection is up to 26% lower than in the poorest neighborhoods. Another study by the University of the Basque Country says that in the Basque Country the areas with the lowest unemployment rate have up to 50% less contagion. And in Madrid, the first three districts with the most infections and where the virus is hitting the most are southern districts, are more popular districts. Of course, the virus understands things like what home you live in, whether it's healthier or less; it understands things like whether you have income or not, whether you can stay home and telework or you have to go out on the street. Of course, the virus understands neighborhoods, but it is that in those neighborhoods where the virus is doing more damage there are no caceroladas, in those neighborhoods there are no insults or arms up high asking for taxis. And, by the way, Mr. Grande-Marlaska, I need this to clarify: is the right of demonstration in force or not in force? Or for it to be in force do you have to name Queipo de Llano and live in the neighborhood of Salamanca and for the rest what there are arrests? Because I imagine that if this were to happen with a People's Party government and it were progressive forces, social movements that went out on the street, there would be fines, there would be arrests and there would be repression. Is the right of demonstration in force, yes or no? And if it's not in force, why should it be for some and not for others? Depends on the neighborhood? Depends on the rent? Does it depend on whether you were born with compound surnames or in the Salamanca neighborhood? I think that we need to clarify. In the most affected neighborhoods there are no caceroladas, no insults and no fascist greetings; in the most affected neighborhoods there are neighbourhood support networks, there is mutual support, there is solidarity between neighbours, there is applause for health workers and there are also queues in the social eateries. There is a lot of responsibility in an underground stream of those who are going through the worst and who are enduring and who are having the greatest responsibility in our country, while those who have the most are doing an exercise of irresponsibility. And again here we have to bring Machado to the Congress of Deputies: 'In Spain the best is the people, it has always been the same. In the hard trenches, the lords invoke the homeland and sell it; the people do not even name it, but buy it with their blood.' The progressive government, which was invested with very diverse supports, is a bicycle, and its stability depends on its progress; it will not depend on some playing pots - because looking in a mirror all the world is red; if for them the World Health Organization is the First International - it will depend on the people who are enduring, that the people who are having it worse know that there are determined measures of great transformation now. If you don't take it now, those who now come to ask for help from Dad State tomorrow will demand cuts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u32	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Rocío. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u33	Thank you very much, President. Today I wanted to go up to the stand - I apologize to Mrs Rincón and the President - because today I want you to see my face, the face of disappointment with this government. They have been able to negotiate the Basque elections, for example, and unable to accept our proposal to level the least-funded autonomous communities so that we all have the same resources to fight this epidemic and its consequences. They have been able to spend 21 billion in tanks and unable to provide 23 billion to Andalusia, Murcia, Castile-La Mancha, Galicia and the Valencian Community so that their citizens would have the same resources as the average to fight this health, social and economic emergency. They have been able to reach agreements with those who have denied them bread and salt and whiten the far right and unable to agree with those who helped them sit there and approve all their decrees! And all of them, all of them extensions! Keep this figure: 881 million; it is the figure that remains out of the Valencian health budget every year because the Government does not transfer the resources that our health system needs. Do you know that from September we pay the payroll with loans? One year and another and another and another. Every year. Six years after the end of the financing system. The consequence of this underfunding is that Valencians have fewer hospital beds, fewer ICU beds, less doctors, less nurses and less midwives than average. I'm not talking about money, gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, I'm not talking about money. I'm talking about health, I'm talking about lives, I'm talking about opportunities. We have made a reasonable and fair proposal, and you know it. We often talk about the equality of all Spaniards, but there can be no equality if everyone does not have the same resources; if some we always fight with a hand tied behind our backs; if there are differences in the resources per inhabitant - of up to 611 between some autonomous communities -. And why did we ask for that funding fund for the Valencians? To save lives, to help vulnerable people, to help our autonomous and our SMEs. I'm done. We've always voted yes, always! So don't try to get us into the car on this irresponsible and histrionic right. No one can doubt our responsibility or our loyalty, nobody!, but Commitment this time will vote no, definitely not, because our commitment is to the people we want to represent, because this government has disrespected 5 million Valencians who did not deserve their refusal. Yes, comrades, health first, but Valencian hospitals don't get paid with air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u34	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Rocío. Finally, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, the BNG remains committed to the continuity of the state of alarm because, although we see and rejoice that health data are significantly better, we know that it is still necessary to finish the work and do so with anticipation and security. In any case, we have been arguing from the outset that another state of alarm is possible, without centralization, without militarization, without decisions taken, in our view, more on political and economic criteria than on health grounds. In any case, today you yourselves confirm that it was possible to make changes, such as the abolition of three of the four single command authorities, and to restore some powers to the autonomous communities. It is a decision that goes in the right direction, but it is insufficient, because they are not fully restored in the health field, for example, which is perfectly possible without undermining the coordination role that the Minister of Health must play. These days we have discussed and raised this issue of the restoration of competences, issues such as the state of alarm being extended for only fifteen days, because there is no reason to do so for a month, and others of relevance, such as, for example, that in the case of Galicia interprovincial mobility is allowed in phase 2, something that we believe can be done with certainty without affecting for nothing the work of controlling the epidemic, among other things because all the provinces are in the same phase and in similar epidemiological and health conditions. It's no whim. We have already warned in its day that the provincial division in the case of Galicia did not respond to any geographical, economic or much less social reality; rather, it is perceived as an anachronism of nineteenth-century centralism. It was a measure taken without taking into account the reality of Galicia, our peculiar way of inhabiting the territory. No one in Galicia understands that it is possible to go from Ortigueira to Riveira, 150 kilometers, but not, for example, from A Estrada to Santiago, 25 kilometers. Allowing mobility within Galicia does not entail any risk of contagion and, on the contrary, would solve many personal and family problems. Also alien to our reality and, therefore, harmful to Galicia are the announced criteria for the distribution of the aid fund to the autonomous communities; clearly: we want them to be modified because they are not fair. We can assume that aspects such as economic effort in health or the population with reasonable weight are valued, but what is not reasonable is that criteria such as dispersion or ageing are observed, because it is clear that the dispersed habitat we have increases all services, including health care, and that the weight of people over the age of sixty-five and dependent people directly affects health, social and care services. Therefore, they are criteria that necessarily have to be included with a reasonable weight, just as we believe that a paid leave is necessary and urgent for work and family reconciliation. And I'm done. Mr Sánchez, we have come to this House with all the willingness to change our voting position from abstaining to voting in favour, despite being against many issues that have to do with how they are interpreting and applying the state of alarm. Let us hope that the closure of the Government will not make it impossible. It is a pity that citizens' requests are met and not those of the groups we have collaborated in the investiture.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u36	Mr. Rego, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u37	I'm done. Frankly, I believe that the PSOE and the United We may be wrong to seek support on your right instead of doing it on your left and in sovereignism, because what we propose is common sense, and surely they will end up doing it; let us hope that it will not be late and bad. You say you're a government that listens. They show that they hear the voice of the Galician people, the voices of Galician society, who want things to be done differently, and not just the voice of that ultra-Spanishist right with which they now seem to prefer to agree. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Rincón. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u39	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, President. It's called a mask. He's about to wear it. [[shows a mask]] I don't see anyone in this closed space, except a few, with the mask on. We ask the citizen from tomorrow that in closed spaces and where the distances of confinement are not respected they be put. Let's see if we can set an example. Since the last extension of the state of alarm, 2165 compatriots have died in Spain. Every morning we get up to see if the number of infected and deceased has dropped and we even get happy when we see that they are below a hundred, but we get sad when we see that there is a rebound. But they're not numbers, no, they're human beings, they're broken families. From here we have to tell you, all the united parliamentary groups, that we are with them, with the infected people who are fighting alone, without their families, for their lives in hospitals, by the hand of those guardian angels who are dressed in white, who are the sanitary ones. For these people, we have to live up to them, as are the health workers, the State Security Forces and Corpses, the Armed Forces, the transporters, the farmers, the farmers, all those who keep alive our hope of getting out of this tragedy. Tomorrow a year ago I, from my seat, swore the Spanish Constitution in this House; a very great honor. And I'll tell you, every day I walk in here, I keep getting excited. I think I will leave politics the day I enter this House and do not fill me with emotion. I am a state lawyer, I have always worked in public service and I do not know the entanglements of old politics, which you have done for forty years, but I know what my responsibilities are; I know that I have risen every day of my life in the morning to seek solutions for people, giving them everything, coming home tired at night, but satisfied with the duty done. Here we find that some of them are still in the 'and you more', and one wonders what it takes, beyond almost 28 000 dead, for Mr Echenique, Mr Rufián or Mr Abascal to abandon those speeches of old politics. Abandon that old policy. Today we are voting only, nothing more and nothing less, the 15-day extension of the state of alarm. Mr Sánchez, I am sorry to say that today you are not the important one here, that today the important ones are the Spaniards. Today we do not vote in favour of a government, as we have heard in the speech by Esquerra Republicana, which threatens to break the investment pact without thinking about the lives or jobs of the Spaniards, just thinking about getting political revenue from their threatening position. Mr Sánchez makes it very difficult for us, several have already said so, but we have succeeded. It makes it very difficult for us because it is intransigent, because it has been unilateral, because it has been difficult to reach consensus, because it has been late in the epidemic, because it has made many mistakes, because it has been rectified many times, because it has created legal insecurity in the Spanish and personal insecurity, because it has abused the state of alarm when it has used the decree-law to put its government partner in the CNI or to hire companies that do not even have a known domicile. But we have to vote responsibly, because today the question is whether decontainment has to take place now that we are winning the virus, now that we are winning the battle. Or don't you remember that we were about to reach the thousand dead? Now that we win the battle, now that the citizens comply with their part of the agreement we cannot take a step back. Do not threaten us, Mr Sánchez, that this is going to be chaos, do not tell us that it is either chaos or it is you; do not threaten us. We vote responsibly, we vote for the Spaniards, the self-employed, the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the workers and the families. It seems distant, but it really was yesterday when the President of the Government himself or Mr Simancas or Mrs Lastra were talking about the insignificance of my parliamentary group. How things change in politics; another of the things I've learned in this new job. Gentlemen of the People's Party, we govern with responsibility for more than twenty million Spaniards in solid governments, which are successful formulas, we have even anticipated the Government of the nation in the measures we have taken in municipalities and in self-governments to curb the epidemic. That is the philosophy that demands of Citizens responsibility for the Spaniards, common sense, pragmatism, moderation. That is why we have supported real decree-laws of the government that we did not like, that were short, that were cheap with the help of the autonomous. We have asked him to rectify these royal decrees, we have given him a demanding hand for consensus, we have demanded responsibility, but we have offered him our own responsibility, always thinking about the well-being of the Spaniards. And to the gentlemen of the non-radical, who always vote no, to those who always use the epic and historical discourse I say go to a hospital, look at the face of the health personnel, look at a doctor, look at a nurse, look at a cellist and explain to him - because I couldn't - why they always vote no, explain to him how it is possible that they are in favor of the contagion and to put at risk the health workers of this country. We're all angry; I'm angry. We are all losing patience - it is normal, confinement is very hard - but we must make decisions with our heads, not with our guts; we must not take advantage of the political outcome of this tragedy. Of course we lost patience. How can we not lose our patience when Mr Sánchez shows up on television saying that it is either him or chaos and saying that he can leave the Spaniards unprotected if we do not vote in favour of a further extension of the state of alarm?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. How can we not lose our patience when Mr Sánchez tells us that he wants to impose an extension of one month or even more and get out of control of the Congress of Deputies, as the House of Representatives of National Sovereignty?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. How are we not going to lose our patience when rules are issued in the State Official Gazette at 11:30 p.m., which enter into force at half an hour and are then rectified?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. People right now don't even know what mask they have to wear in every case. How are we not going to lose patience with this government? But, look, Citizens make politics useful. Citizens have achieved things working, working, not just with words, not just with grandiose speeches. You have to jump, you have to be willing to work. That is what the Spaniards are demanding, that we agree, that we take a step towards the new policy. We have demanded from Mr Sánchez, the Government of the nation, that the extension be only for fifteen days, because he has to be accountable to the Congress of Deputies. We have demanded - you have asked, but we have succeeded - that the Congress open, so that there will be regular control sessions, in July, so that the exit of the orderly descalation of the pandemic will be done with the control of the Congress of Deputies. We have asked him to disengage the aid to the autonomous from the state of alarm and to anchor it to their personal situation, because it is the backbone of the Spanish economy. We have asked you to speed up the payment of ERTs and unemployment benefits, because there are many people left behind, there are many people who have not yet paid, and to solve any problems that may arise in relation to documentation in a priority way. We have achieved the moratorium of one more month in the payment of taxes, in the payment of taxes of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and self-employed people who do not know if they will be able to open their businesses and who have a balloon of oxygen with it. We have achieved the commitment that within 15 days you will have to appear before this House, seeking consensus, a plan of ordinary descalation with the reforms that need to be made in ordinary legislation, because we cannot continue living in a state of constitutional abnormality, because ordinary legislation will have to be applied. Mr Rufián, you will have to go to Catalonia, you will have to look at the face of the self-employed, the small, the large and the medium-sized entrepreneurs and even the independenceists and tell them again, as you have said here, that we sell cheaply. You will have to tell him, to see what they tell him, whether these measures are good or bad. These measures are what you have achieved for all of Spain, not only for Catalonia, my party, Citizens, making a useful policy that you do not do. Ask these groups whether or not this policy is useful and stop making big speeches and stop trying to take advantage of this pandemic, this tragedy, to get political results related to self-determination, the freedom of political prisoners or all those things that we have heard from this rostrum, or that table, which is the table of shame, because it is a shame to take that issue out now, when people are thinking about saving their lives and saving their jobs. That way of negotiating is a shame. Now we can only think of the Spaniards and nothing else, nothing else. No alternatives have been offered. We are - experts say - in the possibility of a rebound, we need to get out of this epidemic neatly. We have shown that another policy is possible and that Citizens is the party of the centre, of moderate solutions, of real solutions for the Spaniards, and we have forced the Government to accept these conditions, which are good for the general interest. We don't stick to words. Do not settle down, Mr Sánchez, do not absolve yourself in the state of alarm, because we are at the end of this situation. Comply with the agreements, come here to account; be it pulcrum with the use of the state of alarm, do not use it to put Mr. Iglesias in the National Intelligence Center, or to appoint high officials of cover, or to award contracts without transparency to companies that do not know where they are. Reinvigorate the transparency portal once and for all, and fulfil the obligations that every democratic and modern Government must be transparent with its citizens. They have accommodated the suspension of administrative deadlines. I remind you that the Royal Decree states that on 1 June the administrative deadlines will be rehabilitated and this Government will have to comply with all the requirements of transparency for citizens. Tell us, for example, who are those famous experts who condition the daily lives of so many Spaniards, who evaluate us and whom we, however, cannot evaluate because we do not know who they are. And, make no mistake, he does not have a new partner - his partners are these who leave him now at the stand -, what he has is a state party, and whenever he makes moderate proposals that are good for the Spaniards he will count - if he abandons arrogance, if he goes along the path of consensus - with our support. It calls for the responsibility of its governing partners, who today vote no, including Mr Baldoví. And, gentlemen of VOX, go out on the street and explain - as I say - that the disengagement of the ERTE from the state of alarm is bad, that the speeding up of payments to the people who are now practically in need is bad, that the aid to the self-employed is bad, that the tax moratorium on entrepreneurs to generate a certain oxygen balloon is bad, or that Congress works in July to control the government at the exit of this tragedy is very bad. And remain anchored in that not as much as the President of the Government likes, because in the end what interests him is precisely that there is no moderation, the policy of the blocs. The gentlemen of the People's Party know that if they were now in government they would also have the hand of Citizens, because we govern with absolute honesty and loyalty in four autonomous communities and in many municipalities and we have high eyes. We are at a time in the history of Spain when we must be in this situation of focus and responsibility. But, Mr Sánchez, we voted no for you, we voted no for the Spanish and only for the Spanish. And, make no mistake, do not threaten the parliamentary groups again because we do not approve of the extension of the state of alarm. Make no mistake, do not return to unilaterality; seek agreement, consensus and the pact, which is what the Spaniards demand of us. Make no mistake, do not again blackmail the Spaniards saying that if we do not pass the royal decrees-laws they will be left unprotected, they will remain in destitution. I don't cultivate the fear of the Spaniards. Give security to the Spaniards. It complies with the agreements to which it has committed, it complies with the Spanish, it complies with Spain. You'll have us by your side, but if you don't, Mr. Sanchez, you've already seen how lonely you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. As you asked us at the Board of Spokesmen, I will speak from the seat. Mr President, since we started discussing the state of alert in this House, the only motions for resolutions adopted and the amendments to the corresponding decrees adopted have been those tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party. On this occasion we have not presented any, we have been talking for a long time about the content of this decree, but of course I am pleased that the way in which we have progressed towards the adequacy of that state of alarm has been marked on the line that was not only pointed out in some of our proposals but also that I asked and mentioned it in my interventions from the rostrum. I believe that on this occasion we are already deepening a concept that appeared in the last prolongation of the state of alarm through our proposal, which was co-governance, to agree together, to go hand in hand, to go collaborating, knowing that the autonomous communities - their institutions - are the ones who know the terrain more closely and who can apply in a specific way the measures that can generally be taken for the control of the pandemic. To the extent that this dialogue is deepened and broadened, things are working out well, and I believe that it is also a good thing, that this decree is now ratified, that it is precisely the presidents and presidents of those autonomous communities who develop these agreements and that, once presented at their own initiative and agreed with the central Government, they will be carried forward. I told him from the rostrum, also at a time when everyone was thinking that the state of alarm had to be unique and in the same way throughout the territory, that different stadiums could be made, that there could be different situations in some autonomous communities and others. We have already taken that step, but there was a moment when it did not even arise, now I think we give another important one that I also mentioned in the rostrum and that will be recorded in the Journals of Sessions. At some point, in some places, the state of alarm may no longer be necessary and in others yes. This is covered in his request for an extension of the alarm decree, since after phase 3, those territories would automatically remain outside the state of alarm. I see that it also continues to include a situation in which it had not fallen, which was that of the enclaves. Now there is also a step that is very important to us, as it is that the only authority - let me express it - with which to deal or to talk is the Minister of Health and, therefore, we are taking another step in the right direction and we are going to focus on health issues. I also welcome the fact that specific mention is made, in the sense that it is made, of the educational and work fields and the proposals they have to make and the decisions they have to make and that they will be taken forward by the educational administrations of the autonomous communities, thus opening up the way to avoid problems of interference with administrative matters or administrative agreements that cannot be reached in time. They have been announced for their part, it is clearly not in the text we are discussing, but they have been announced from the rostrum for their part amendments of health laws and there have been some probe balloons that we have also seen in the media, and some demonstrations by other members of the Government as to the need for different powers, a kind of operational direction, that there are about seventeen health systems and that there is, well, a kind of one-manship, as that word is very fashionable. I would like to tell you, and we have already expressed it on some occasion, but I want to tell you now also publicly, that I disagree a lot about that. I believe that one can always be open to discussion, to revision, to improvements in mechanisms, but I do not think it is either positive or true that at the moment there are no coordination mechanisms and there is no coordination between health systems, not the autonomous communities anymore; it is said that there is a National Health System or, at least, that is the name used. But there are also, for example, examples of coordination even for epidemic issues. There has been a national plan since 2005 that is renewed year by year, a plan called a national plan on the flu pandemic and it provides for restrictive measures on mobility to affected areas and social distancing. I want to say that there are mechanisms to be able to coordinate - of course, this pandemic has occurred throughout the territory of the State, and I am not mixing it, Mr President, but it has occurred throughout the territory of the State with the state of alarm - but that there are mechanisms that are obvious; that the system has also been demonstrated in practice and I believe that there has been reasonable coordination and that it is now possible, when we have encountered an unexpected situation, to plan in such a situation what movements and mechanisms we should do, of course, but it is not said that there is a lack of instruments of collaboration and that it is not used to re-centralize competences that are in the hands of the autonomous communities because, in that sense, it would at least meet the opposition of my group. The approach that you make - and I return to the concrete text of the state of alarm - goes in line with our point, and we believe that as far as you collaborate and as far as you progress through dialogue will be positive - Man!, of course I think that this situation is not comfortable for anyone and the sooner it ends, the better - but, given the circumstances, if there is such a dialogue, we will be able to feel more comfortable. Are there other alternatives, could there be other alternatives? Man!, so by power, yes; in fact Italy - we have seen it, it is a country with a decentralization that I would call more administrative than political and here you are saying that Spain is the most decentralized country in the world and, well, I would matify that - takes the step of leaving it in the hands of the regions and not here. Well, it's an alternative. Could it be done? Yeah. Can it be an alternative not to be done? Well, man!, as long as the participation of the autonomous communities exists and there is such collaboration, also, because it is undoubtedly, I will not deny it, that there is a citizen's concern, in general, that is obvious, because there is a dialogue and that things work institutionally. It is true that there are some examples of citizen irresponsibility, punctual if you want - because I think the majority of citizens are behaving - but there are some examples of citizen irresponsibility that are striking, such as those manifestations that do not keep the proper security measures and that without notice are occurring, for example, in Madrid, which are a clear example of this. Therefore, maintaining at the stage where we are in if there is such a dialogue and collaboration and if we are to deal with those measures that we have already pointed out to you from the beginning, because insofar as it is cooperated and attended to, it can work. Therefore, you can now count on the positive vote of the Basque Nationalist Party for the prolongation of the state of alarm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u43	Eskerrik asko, president. Again we find ourselves in this Chamber with a further extension of the state of alarm and again, to be clear, I will start at the end. We are waiting for your decision, whether you are about to take steps in the protection of workers or not. For your understanding, I'll explain it well. I would like to do a recent memory exercise and return to the investiture session that you did to yourself, Mr Sánchez, President. In that debate on 7 January you were elected president by a progressive majority that allowed your investiture and the formation of the government. In that debate all the forces of this Chamber put black on white, we said what we expected from this legislature and this Government, and you set out the main challenges your Government would face. From Euskal Herria Bildu we set out three clear objectives: to defend the social and economic rights of Basque citizens, to defend plurinationality as a basis to advance in the construction of a just Basque republic and to be the brake on reactionary right-wings and their neoliberal policies. We also made a commitment, which we would be demanding, responsible yes, but very demanding. And we can say that we are fulfilling our commitment and advancing our goals as well. Today we hope to reach an agreement with you to completely repeal the labor reform We believe that it would be a small victory not of this group, not of our group, but of all the workers, social agents, unions and political forces that we have fought so hard to end this reform so unfair to the workers and so beneficial to employers and large companies. If we reach this agreement, we can say that Basque women workers, as well as all State workers, will recover part of the rights that have been taken away from them for so many years. It would mean regaining some dignity and restoring a minimum of security to them, because we owe it to them, we must be sure that when they return to their jobs, when the extraordinary labour measures adopted by the COVID-19 crisis are completed, they will be a little more protected from the eagerness of the big entrepreneurs to make this crisis pay once again to them forever to secure their great benefits. And yet we know that this would not be enough either and that further progress will have to be made in occupational safety and protection, new measures will have to be taken to benefit workers, because if there is political will, steps can be taken and more and deeper measures can be taken. We know that more can and must be done. That is why we do not settle, because citizenship does not conform, we have a firm commitment to continue doing everything in our hands not only to regain the rights that so many years of social and labor struggle cost to conquer but to expand them. We sincerely hope, Mr Sánchez, that you will not let this opportunity fall for something good for all the workers and that we will be able to reach this agreement which would entail the repeal of labour reform after twelve long years, thus giving a little relief to the fears and uncertainties of the thousands and thousands of people and families who are now afraid for their employment and for their future. Our second goal was to work for the construction of our country, so that sooner or later Basque citizenship can take the floor, decide freely, and we would like to bet on building a just Basque republic for all. This pandemic has shown that this, the ability to self-governance, the need for more sovereignty, is more necessary than ever. Because, in the face of a health crisis, our decision-making capacity, our self-governments, our knowledge of our specific realities and our ability to give the best of answers to them have been stolen from one day to the next, and we regret that it took more than two months to understand that coordination is not submission and that things can be done differently. I do not know whether they have fully understood this, but we appreciate that the Government has finally committed itself to the institutions on the ground and to understanding that we do not need guardianship, but that from respect, from mutual recognition, progress can be made. We can also say that we are advancing in our goal of being a brake on the right and its policies, because today the right anger more than ever. Gradually we are pushing them back into their policies and today we would like to be able to take away their biggest trophy: the right to precarious employment reform. And have no doubt: if it depends on us, we will take away more from them. We will bring them back to all the privileges that have been arrogated for years. We're going to deconstruct the entire framework dedicated to 99% suffering to enrich 1%. If Euskal Herria Bildu depends, the rights will not be able to influence or condition the life of the citizenry. That is why Mr Sánchez again warned you: or the progressive majority of the motion of censure to advance in social justice and dignity or the right to maintain the neoliberal policies that so many lives have destroyed. You know that if you bet on the first, as you did in your investiture, you'll have a way to go. If you bet on the right, you will lose support and have a very short path. Because you know, they've shown you, they're not reliable. We are in the midst of a pandemic that will bring with it one of the greatest economic and social crises we have ever experienced. This is no time for hesitation or doubt. You have a choice; if you want to count on the left, we can move forward, but if you bet on the right, you won't find us or I'm afraid the majority that made it possible for you to be president. Choose well, choose well. In that investiture we also made a compromise, I told him that we would be responsible but very demanding, and we are. Since the first time the state of alarm was proposed we have maintained a critical but responsible and coherent position by not hindering the extensions of the state of alarm, even having many criticisms and rejecting the way to manage it. We have not put at risk the adoption of social and economic measures which, although they seemed insufficient to us, were necessary. We have not been lacking, insulted or generated chryspation in this Chamber. We have not sought the overthrow of his Government and - most importantly - we have not added any more fear and uncertainty to the citizenry, we have not played with his health or his rights. I told you two weeks ago: our commitment is not to you and your Government but to the citizenry. And as long as we can, we will continue to work to expand their rights. Today we hope to achieve what we consider to be a good agreement. We have had a dialogue, we have discussed it and we hope to be able to agree. We have done so with discretion, without public orders or statements in the form of ultimatums. We expect a good result for everyone and, above all, for the workers. We told him there was another way to manage the state of alarm, Mr. Sánchez, and it has been shown that there was. We ask you to assume your responsibility and to dialogue and listen to the requests and proposals of the groups. We believe that something heard and that some steps have taken. His Government had spoken to many of the groups and we valued it. With some it has reached agreements, with others it has not, but I would ask it not to be an anecdote generated by the punctual need, but a way of doing and governing that must be taken as a norm by its Government and to do so with those who made the investiture possible. Because, as I told you, yours is a minority government that must earn the support and work the agreements, not the other way around. Don't confuse us with the destructive right, don't confuse us with those who just want to make noise and win with pots and golf clubs what they lost in the ballot boxes. There are many of us in this House who press for you to move forward, for us to push for you to make decisions that you would otherwise not want to make. That is what we must do because it is the word we have given to those who voted for us and to those who expect us to make decisions that will improve their lives. We will continue to push and push him to move further, have no doubt. I'm done. In this pandemic we've all had to portray ourselves. There have been some who have tried to confront people, bully, lie and generate hatred for political and party interests, unable to bring anything but grudge and anger. I hope that you will never forget because you represent the worst in society; but we have also seen the best, how people have given a great example of social and collective responsibility, solidarity and containment. They have assumed what they never thought they could assume, and they have done so for the health and well-being of all. Also those people who have been, and are, in the front row, those who have put at risk up to their own lives for ours, have given the best of themselves, are giving it, and that is what we should remember. That is why I want to end by asking that we continue to take care of ourselves, that this has not happened, that the virus is still here and that it can still hit us very hard. Let us not try to run too much and convey the wrong feeling to people that everything has already happened. That is what belongs to us all here, we exercise the same responsibility as we ask, it is what belongs to us, to accompany the citizenry in that responsibility, in that effort and to return all that sacrifice to them in protection and guarantees for the future. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, which now has its turn in reply, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u45	Good morning. Thank you, President. The CUP is here again to explain why it is voting no again. The reasons are three and they are simple; we will try to do so in the short time we have. The first is that you keep repeating that the state of alarm is the only way to confine the population. We have been telling them for days that it is not true, that they have health laws that they can enforce, that they have measures to control the mobility of the population and even to sanction. In fact, today I bring you the third article of Organic Law 3/1986. I read it. It says: 'In order to control communicable diseases, the health authority, in addition to carrying out general preventive actions, may take appropriate measures for the control of the sick, of persons who are or have been in contact with them and of the immediate environment, as well as those deemed necessary in the event of a risk of transmissible nature. ' It's one of the articles. Then you in Organic Law 33/2011, in section 54.2, have even resources to intervene facilities, establishments, services and industries and have a whole chapter sanctioning, Title VI, so that Mr Marlaska can deploy his repression by neighborhoods. The second reason is that we understand that you, as you already have health laws in order to contain the pandemic and as you also lower the number of dead and lower the infections - this is good news - you maintain a state of alarm with an authoritarian logic, re-centralizing, control of public space, as if this were a military crisis rather than a health crisis. Moreover, the first thing you do when you explain which ministries will be the ones that manage the pandemic - apart from the one of Health which is obviously the central part of the conflict - you put the one of Defense, the one of Interior and the one of Mobility. The third reason - and perhaps the one that worries us the most - you are very hard on the ones downstairs and very soft on the ones upstairs and you are combining three things. First, they do not take any economic measures that force the bank, the upper classes and the big companies to contribute more; there is no tax on big fortunes, banks do not return the ransom, etc. Secondly, they deploy social measures for the people who have less, they stick to the margins, but what they do are social policies of charity - with forgiveness -; the minimum living income is charity. University scholarships are fine, but lower tuition fees so people can study. Bank loans to pay the rent replace the one that does not suspend the rents. The third thing you do is deploy control measures and state security forces and bodies throughout the territory. You have put more than a million fines, by neighborhoods - it has already been said several times in this rostrum -. In conclusion, the repression responds to the containment of the poor, because it seems that in the Salamanca neighborhood many fines have not been imposed. This triangle, the Yankee model, is joined by the peculiarity of the Spanish State, this State with a transition that does not break with the authoritarian culture of the judiciary and the control of public order as a fetish of the management of any conflict. You have been tasked with sending a clear message: self-determination will not be in dialogue nor will it be questionable nor will it enter. And the spirit of the investiture - which has emerged several times from this atrium by various spokesmen of the left - cannot be progressive if it goes beyond the collective rights of the peoples, and I am not only talking about national self-determination, I am also talking about economic self-determination, I am talking about people being able to manage, from the proximity and from the logic that deserves their territory, this crisis as God commands. To continue to maintain the fiction of a spirit of left-wing investiture when what is there is re-centralization, authoritarianism and politics for a few, we understand that it does not help much. I ended up quoting César Rendueles, who is not a suspect in independence. He wrote at the beginning of the pandemic that in limited situations civil and political rights are more necessary than ever. Well, from our perspective, self-determination, as an umbrella collective right of the rest of collective rights, remains the collective political response for the majority. The CUP began, today Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana and even Compromís are telling them...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u46	Mrs. Vehi, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u47	I'm done, President. It seems that from the Catalan countries a very clear message is sent to them: a state of alarm cannot go beyond the collective rights of peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Goya painted the most beautiful and sinister paintings, in which you can read a part of the history of our country. Today I look at the photos of the newspapers and read the statements of you, the great political leaders, and it seems to me to be seeing the same, an increasingly darker picture of a divided society, in which the two halves hate each other to death. I've been saying it for a long time, let's not play with fire. Slaves in politicians' homes, violent clashes between fanatics on one side and the other, declarations of intolerance... We are painting the old country always, the two Spains of Machado that, in the end, end up freezing our soul. There are great political leaders here today in Congress who are irresponsibly throwing out that spectacle, thinking about the electoral consequences of the coming crisis. You can't use people's frustration, the rage of the unemployed, and the anger of society because things go wrong. They're wrong, they're blind; you can't wake up the worst passions in this country, the monsters we'd buried and now you're exhumanizing yourself looking for a benefit. Mr Sánchez, the Canary Coalition and the Canarian Nationalist Party are going to support the state of alarm because it has been reduced to fifteen days, and because your Government has committed itself to the extension of the ERTE of the Canarian tourism sector, which is so much needed to save hundreds of thousands of jobs in a land where 40% of employment is in this sector. You therefore count on my vote. But, Mr President, we should declare the state of alarm for another virus that can do away with Spain: the virus of confrontation, that of intolerance, that which Ortega said was the disease of a dead Spain, hollow and carbide, and that always, ladies and gentlemen, ends up killing the new, anxious, aspiring Spain that tends towards life. That's the virus that can kill all the Spaniards, ladies and gentlemen, and it's still easy to avoid the contagion, it's enough just for us to decide in here, for us to decide all of us. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs. Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. I have the floor for the same parliamentary group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u51	Good morning, everyone. Mr President of the Government, New Canarias has supported, since its inauguration, each and every extension of the state of alarm, has supported the real decree-laws because it seemed to us that it was responsible. Today we come to this rostrum in a position of abstention which is to which we believe we have been led, and I will explain why, at the expense of what you tell us in your reply. Because there are two pandemics: one is health, in which the Canary Islands is going better clearly than the state average, but there is a socio-economic pandemic that can cause an unprecedented fracture in Canarian society, derived from its economic model, and I will give you a figure that I had not given you so far: there are 420,279 people in the Canary Islands currently in need of help, between the unemployed, ERTE and the self-employed; 37.3% of the working population. What I'm telling you is incompatible with a medium-developed society, and this is the principle. We have proposed a differentiated response for the Canary Islands, not by whim, because in addition to our obvious geographical, economic, climatic and so on, there is a recognition of that singularity by the REF that we support among all here, our economic and fiscal regime, which is in the primary law of the European Union, and that is why, among other things, the Canary Islands is going to lose what they do not lose others: 1547 million euros among all the Canary Islands corporations for the loss of their own collection, which is precisely the product of that singularity. That is to say, we have the risk not only of not being able to meet the basic needs of Canarian society, at clear risk, but also of not being able to pay the payroll, nor the Government of Canaries or the successive local corporations. A first step forward was the bilateral Commission for the Canary Islands-State, which we had urged with insistence, and which had a meeting with the Minister of Finance two weeks ago. It raised some issues that are very well, but that need to be implemented quickly: the use of the surplus - we have asked it four times already; it is that there are 4 billion euros in the Canary Islands that are the result of the savings of the Canary Islands, and now that money has to be circulating - and the capacity to borrow. Since the state has been able to borrow, we ask that the Canary Islands be able to borrow, and do you know why? Because we are the least indebted community in the Spanish state. It's an objective question. A specific tourism plan is absolutely necessary because tourism is three times as much, in terms of GDP and employment, as the average for the Spanish State. If those singularities are not enough to treat other than who is different, then we will not be able to understand each other. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u52	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u53	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing a further extension of the state of alarm, it is true that for fifteen days, although the Government's initial intention was to bring it in for a month. And why did you want to bring her in for a month? Because he wanted to avoid parliamentary control, because he wanted to prevent us from having a debate again in this House within fifteen days, in which he might no longer come forward, seeing the votes with which the Government is beginning to count, and he wanted that minority in which his Government is beginning to find itself not to be seen; and especially because he wants to govern as he likes best: a coup d'état and with opacity. Because, in order to forge agreements that are maintained over time, empathy is needed and humility is needed, and this government is much more comfortable in self-sufficiency and self-complacement; self-sufficiency and self-complacement that we have seen again this week in that new chapter of the weekly televised perorata to which we are already accustomed, and that this week has told us that the state of alarm has saved 300,000 lives in Spain. Look, Mr. Sánchez, the number of lives that have saved the state of alarm we don't know either you or me or anyone else, but what we do know is that our country is the second largest in the world with the highest mortality rate per million inhabitants, and we are also the first country in the world with the highest number of infected health people. I don't think that data is a good way to breast-feed anyone. The question we should ask ourselves is not how many deaths have prevented the state of alarm, but how many have avoided making decisions in time, following the recommendations of the World Health Organization, providing health supplies to people in health centres and hospitals, and buying masks and tests in time. But, of course, improvisation and chaos have been the flagship in the management of this government. A management and chaos that is leaving a lot of people behind. Let them ask all those Spaniards who, to date, still do not charge the ERTE; let them ask so many entrepreneurs, so many self-employed people who have already drowned so much in the administrative maraña of the ICO lines; or let them ask all those who waited for the mortgage moratoriums, and have actually found themselves with a law that has so many conditions that make their access impossible. And people are beginning to worry a lot, because they know that there is a social and economic crisis that has no precedent in our country's history, and they are also beginning to get angry, because they see that their Government is unable to take measures even to reduce that mastodontic structure of ministries that not only does it reduce, but it increases with positions of free designation. And since people are starting to worry and they're starting to get angry, they're also protesting. But, of course, the left has always thought that the protest is only right when they lead it, that there are rights that correspond to them exclusively, and that those of us who do not think like them have a vetoed part of the Constitution. We have seen many leaders on the left, mainly from the orbit of Podemos and nationalism, complaining about some demonstrations in some neighborhoods of Madrid or in some cities of Spain, but they have not said a single word of the demonstrations we have had in Pamplona this weekend in favor of a terrorist who murdered our councilman Tomás Caballero. You know why they didn't say anything? Because those people who were demonstrating in Pamplona, without any moral principle, without any democratic principle and sick with hatred, are voters of a party that sits here, that has allowed its investiture and that supports its government in Navarre, and then they can protest. [[Applauds]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I tell you not to worry so much about whether people are protesting and to focus on solving people's problems, taking this country forward and not really leaving anyone behind. You will probably receive the confidence of this House again today. Don't waste it again. Please do the right thing, because Spain needs it and deserves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Finally, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u55	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago I told you from here that in this period of descalation you should delegate to the autonomous communities without fear, because it is your governments that know the territory best and are going to be responsible. It was no longer a question of bans, but rather of lifting them up. The truth is, they haven't paid much attention so far. It seems that they have realized that in a decentralized State such as ours co-governance is the most effective. This at least has assured me from your team, and I hope that this time they will fulfill it, because when you go from theory to practice, as we go down to details, we find more differences. Just one example. In Spain, in coastal regions, such as Cantabria, there are activities linked to the sea such as fishing, sports ports, commercial ports, beaches and a type of tourism that does not exist in the interior. Within these regions there are also many differences, because the islands are not the same as the Mediterranean, the Atlantic or the Cantabrian. I think that from the Moncloa or from the Ministry of Health you cannot get to all these details. I am not going to tell you here about the peculiarities of Cantabria - although I represent Cantabria and I must advertise its sea and its mountain - because I imagine that all places have their corresponding Cabarcene that needs a differentiated treatment, but the Government of Cantabria has sent you some requests with very little success so far. We'll see if they really change this time. The CSR has always supported the government from the outset, mainly because it is the one that governs and it is up to the government to make decisions. He would have done the same to anyone, also to the PP if he had found himself in this situation, because the goal is the same: to cut the pandemic with as little damage as possible. I have already said many times - and perhaps I am one of the few - that any government in Spain would have acted in a similar way; improvising, of course, because I do not think that anyone in its programme had a situation like this. The People's Party, too, if it had touched him, would have had to suffer harsh criticism for his way of acting. We all have to have our feet on the ground. The Regionalist Party of Cantabria wants to be coherent. We want to support them until the end of the state of alarm. I hope, Mr Sánchez, that you confirm in your reply that you are really going to do what I said at first: trust the autonomous communities, with real co-governance. It is not enough to include an article in the decree if it is not then enforced. I hope that this will - I hope - be the last extension. I only wish this Government and the Governments of all the autonomous communities good luck and good luck.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u57	Thank you, Madam President. President, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to express - as in every plenary - all my affection and that of my group to the families of the deceased and to the sick who continue to struggle today. My thanks also go to the staff of the health services and the public services that care for us, help us and protect us. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that, because the victims are hurting us, we must do our utmost to curb the spread of the pandemic and avoid relapses. No one would understand anything else about this House. Ending the virus must prevail over any other goal, and I am sure that if we all share that end we should be able to find the means to do so. Like all Spaniards, who are in this room we are aware that on the virus we still have many uncertainties, but also some certainties. We know how much we owe to those who are making so much sacrifice to protect everyone else from the pandemic, and we also know that without our responsibility all that sacrifice will not be enough. We know that, thanks to the efforts of 47 million Spaniards, we have managed to curb the spread of the pandemic. And we also know that if we do not maintain that effort, if we act recklessly, there is a risk of a rebound. In Singapore they have already had a second and even a third wave, and they have had to take action again. Also in Hong Kong, South Korea, China and even some countries in our environment there has been a sudden increase in cases. There are many uncertainties that we still have about the development of this pandemic, because there are many uncertainties that we still have about the virus itself. But on all these uncertainties we have one certainty, perhaps only one, although I think the most important one, the one we should bear in mind in every word we say and every act we do: what happens will depend on what we, all of us, do at this time. That's what we're sure of. Whatever happens in two or three weeks we are deciding every day with our behavior; also here today with our vote. For months 47 million Spaniards have completed a hard confinement, we have given up seeing families and friends, we have suffered the anguish of seeing the cases grow and we have lived the hope of seeing how the curve began to bend. That is why I cannot understand those who, for political reasons, decide not to meet the social distance and to endanger their health and that of all; I cannot understand that, after all we have gone through and are going through, there are political leaders who pounce, incite and encourage attitudes that despise the collective effort of these two months of sacrifice. Mr. Married, since your party, Mrs. Ayuso is encouraging this kind of behavior. Do you know what would happen if we all acted in the same way, if all Spaniards decided not to comply with the rules of distance that protect us from the pandemic? Can you imagine what would happen if we did the same thing against the management of the PP government in the Madrid Community? [[Rumors]] We do not, although there are no reasons for this. [[One Member: We are already here!-Another Member: Can you shut up a little bit?-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u58	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u59	A few days ago, three exactly, a French newspaper said that Mrs Ayuso is a problematic element, that she has lost control of what she says, that her behavior is surrealistic and that she can hardly be presumed to be managing while she accumulates almost one third of the cases of Spain in Madrid, I repeat, one third of the cases. Even abroad you know, Mr Casado, and even your government partners - such as Mr Igea, vice president of Castile and León - advise you not to cheat on the lonely. I recommend that you listen to Mr. Igea right now. The Spaniards are aware of what would happen if the others acted like you, and the best proof is that we have scrupulously respected two months of confinement. The question is, gentlemen of the PP, if you know the consequences of your irresponsibility, why do you encourage it? Why are you involved in this? You yourself said on March 23 that you prefer strict measures to be taken to keep us short, that you prefer us to overfish to fight the epidemic. To encourage these behaviors - you said exactly -, to encourage these manifestations at this time is a serious negligence. They are not my words, Mr. Married, they are yours on March 13, they are your words. Will you and Mrs Ayuso be held responsible for the consequences in the Community of Madrid if there is a rebound? Because what you say here, Mr. Married, is what is repeated in the neighborhood of Salamanca, in Núñez de Balboa. I speak to you from the most elementary prudence and call you to a responsibility that is supposed to be a party that aspires to rule. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] Are you threatening me? Echaniz, have you threatened me? [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: That's right, isn't it?]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u60	Quiet, please. [[Rumors]] Please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u61	Look, I'm not going to ask you not to show up or call for mobilization; you've done it whenever you've ruled the left, and you were also saying it in the investiture debate. Whenever you have ruled the left you go out to protest, you did it against same-sex marriage, you did it against the Abortion Law, you did it when we were defeating ETA. They've done it every time he's ruled the left. Therefore, I am not going to ask you not to manifest yourself or to incite mobilization; I am only going to ask you to be aware of the impact it can have on everyone's health and to be prudent. I don't think it's much of what I or the rest of the speakers have said, either, and it's much of what we all play, which is the health of all Spaniards. And I think there's nothing more important than that, than the health of all the Spaniards. For us, of course, there is nothing more important, for you there is something more important than the health of all Spaniards? Because it seems so, Mr. Married. On 12 March, 37 people died by COVID were notified in Spain, and you demanded a single command from the government to coordinate all health and economic measures. On March 13th, we added 18 more dead, and you said - and I quote - that extraordinary measures were needed for an extraordinary situation. Yesterday, more than 80 people died, and yet you say that the state of alarm - the only tool that has allowed us to bend the pandemic - is no longer necessary. The state of alarm saves lives and the price of its vavenes and contradictions cannot be paid by all Spaniards. Do not question for political reasons the effort of 47 million Spaniards. Mr. Married, your opposition cannot be to risk everyone's health. Have you done anything else in the last two weeks? For example, did you repropose something that was already approved? Mr Echenique reminded you that he had already spent a week with the proposal on transport which had already been approved for forty days. It now proposes non-discrimination for older people in ICUs, which has been approved for a month and a half. But it turns out you haven't heard about this either. You will understand that with background like these we are at least skeptical of what you have called plan B. Because Plan B appears to be measures that have already been adopted by this Government. You decided to vote no to this extension of the state of alarm and announced it before even knowing the proposal. He announced it fifteen days ago in this very rostrum. No matter what the Government was going to propose, it does not matter that we are succeeding in stopping the pandemic due to the state of alarm. You had already decided to oppose everything, even without knowing what you were going to propose. And it proposes, instead, a plan B that today - already done fifteen days ago - has degenerate. You and all those who are going to vote that no to this extension know that there is only one rule that guarantees a clear, general and reasonable limitation of free movement and economic life: Organic Law of the States of Alarm, whose Article 4(b) expressly states that the state of alarm will be declared in situations of health crises such as epidemics. In addition, the declaration of the state of alarm allows the restriction or restriction of the right to freedom of movement throughout the national territory. It is the only rule that allows measures for the entire Spanish population. At this time, today, it is also the only rule that can limit interprovincial mobility, especially between autonomous communities. The General Health Act, the General Public Health Act, the National Civil Protection System Act and the National Security Act contain no restrictions on free movement. And to those who have wanted to say otherwise from this rostrum, please, I ask you to read the laws again. Please. Will you tell the citizens of the least affected communities, Mr Casado, that restrictions on movement will be abolished? Will you tell them that henceforth any citizen of another community can come freely to their locality without being able to avoid it? It is union, responsibility and coordination that is enabling us to achieve results. What you're proposing is nothing more than throwing that overboard. I told you fifteen days ago, saving anyone who can is neither an option nor a proposal, it is not for this Government, and it should not be for any politician. Mr Casado, the state of alarm is not a program of the Government, it is approved by this House, it is a mandate of Parliament; the state of alarm is not the political program of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party or the Spanish Government, it is our best tool to save lives and fight the pandemic, and to curb the pandemic, to protect the health of all Spaniards should be the first priority of all the parties that we are in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, democratic institutions are not a whim, they are a barrier to protecting our freedoms, and many Spaniards suffered a great deal to achieve them. Parliament, the Congress of Deputies is not a set of seats and a forum, it is above all a commitment to values and practices that go beyond the rules of this House. That commitment is not fulfilled when the rift is encouraged, those values are not defended when our democracy is disqualified by calling it a dictatorship, as Mrs. Díaz Ayuso and her VOX partners do. The government has an obligation to fulfil, but also, Mr Casado, it has the opposition, and how exercise we all depend on. Look, you are the president of the People's Party and the leader of the opposition; out of respect for our institutions, out of respect for our democracy, I ask you to disallow today the words of Mrs Díaz Ayuso and her right-wing partners, because they are a danger to public health, but they are also a danger to our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, this time we live will remain in history for many reasons: 47 million Spaniards join us as never before to protect each other. After months of effort and sacrifice we are finally doubling the pandemic; responsibility, solidarity, commitment to others that we have been able to demonstrate these weeks is the best of our tools and all our hope until we have a vaccine, because no one is safe until there is a vaccine. As political leaders we have to live up to this moment, to the height that is demonstrating, by the way, the whole of Spanish society, its 47 million citizens, who have been confined for two months in their homes. And it's not about not doing politics, it's about doing good politics, doing responsible politics, a policy that's able to look beyond itself, a policy that knows how to add when it needs to. That is what we decided today with our vote, if we maintain an effort that is yielding results and in which all Spaniards are united, or if we sacrifice responsibility and prudence on the altar of party interests; this is the decision that you must take. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u62	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u63	Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your words and also for your contribution to this debate. I understand and sympathize perfectly - I want to start there - with the situation in this debate. It is the fifth time that the Government of Spain has proposed an extension of the state of alarm and, therefore, I know that there are many arguments that have been used, recurring arguments that have been used by its lords, some valid and others, in our view, at least less valid to justify their opposition, their abstention from the state of alarm. But I want you to know that beyond the fact that I can empathize with the recurring aspects of this debate, beyond the fact that I can also empathize with the desire that we all have - and that I think it represents the whole of Spanish society - to recover our normality as soon as possible, and therefore this Congress recovers and resumes the parliamentary activity that is most typical of our daily lives, before the pandemic emerges with its raw reality, I obviously believe that we have many things to fulfil in this vote. In this vote, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to empathize with a majority of Spanish society. The majority feeling of Spanish society is that we are winning the battle against the virus; we are winning it. We are getting closer and closer to finally ending the tragic social, economic and institutional consequences of the state of alarm, getting closer and closer to winning, at least in this first wave, the virus and getting together with the best instruments, with the best tools to be able to cope with it in the second wave or in the next bursts, which will no doubt come. I used to comment with the first Vice-President that it is indeed the fifth time that we have come to this House to ask for the approval of the state of alarm and, then, its extensions, and I believe that it is also a healthy exercise of democracy that demonstrates, moreover, the clear will of the Government of Spain and the commitment to this House and to accountability and to be absolutely transparent in the exercise and implementation of the state of alarm. If you look outside our country, you will see exactly what the behaviour of other European governments is and what decisions they have made when they have requested a state of alarm. I do not believe that there has been any government in Europe that has submitted every fifteen days to the approval of an extension of the state of alarm. I insist that there are countries that have requested the state of alarm for six months, and even more. I therefore believe that, from the Government's point of view, we should at least recognize that exercise of transparency and accountability, which I would also like to extend to other issues. It is said here by those parliamentary groups who do not want to support the extension of the state of alarm that this is a government that does not answer, that is not transparent, that does not report. It is important to give some figures so that they can at least be included in the minutes of this debate in the Journal of Sessions. I know you are not going to convince those who have previously decided to vote against the state of alarm and its extension, but from 13 January to 19 May we will give some examples of what the Government has done. The government as a whole has held a total of 149 press briefings, with 1350 questions answered, 255 to me as President of the Government, including the daily lives of the health technicians, those of the Technical Management Committee, mine as President, those of the Minister of Health, together with the director of the CCAES, Dr. Simon, with practically all the ministries of our Government. An average of almost 20 questions per press conference, ladies and gentlemen: in which there were 11 fewer questions and in which there were 34 more questions. Maximum information transparency. Let us ask what the presidents and autonomous presidents are doing to see if there is a greater degree of accountability, both in Parliament and in the media, about the management that can be done in relation to this crisis. There have been 119 meetings of the Evaluation and Monitoring Committee, 52 meetings of the Technical Management Committee since 17 March, including the 7 meetings of the Descaled Committee. The deployment of coordination and accountability, ladies and gentlemen, is not there. There have been 82 interterritorial and sectoral meetings between the Government of Spain, the various departments and the councils referred to. There have been 10 conferences of autonomous presidents. As I said before, there have never been so many conferences of presidents in the history of democracy. In the last sixteen years, ladies and gentlemen, how many conferences of presidents have been held in our country? It's been six. There's been 10 in 10 weeks. There have been 30 meetings of the Inter-Territorial Health Council, not counting the bilateral phase-by-step meetings. Multitudes of sectoral conferences of inter-territorial councils on all areas of the Executive, 124 international meetings, 8 meetings of the Scientific Committee, 28 meetings with social partners, 78 meetings with other representatives and institutions. This is a government, ladies and gentlemen, which has tried to exercise dialogue, negotiation and agreement with each and every area of the composite State in which we are and also with the social partners. And at European level too. Since February alone, ladies and gentlemen, there have been a total of 23 councils of ministers, and in Congress there have been 9 appearances, both with my presence as President and with that of various ministers, with various agendas of the day. In addition, 23 ministerial appearances have been made before the Committees of the Congress of Deputies. Since the beginning of this crisis and the state of alarm, the Minister of Health has appeared in the Parliamentary Committee on Health to report and transfer daily all information on the evolution of the pandemic to his lords. There have been three control sessions in the Senate with various ministers and, indeed, a control session with me as President of the Government. In ordinary times there has never been this accountability, ladies and gentlemen! And, in extraordinary times, it is not that we are accounting, it is that we are daily sharing with all of you, with all the parliamentary groups and with the social actors the decisions we are making. Therefore, transparency, coordination, accountability. And I am convinced - and I said this at the beginning of my first speech - that we can certainly improve, that there are aspects of improvement in all governments in our environment and also in ours. Ladies and gentlemen, maximum humility, maximum self-requirement, but we have always tried to make our successes much more than mistakes. And where there has been a challenge we have solved it with work, a work shared with the different political forces and the different governments. Having said this, I would like to give some thought to the various parliamentary groups and, significantly, to those who are going to vote against the extension of the state of alarm. I would like to thank those who are going to vote in favour, logically, and also those who are not going to vote in favour, at least to abstain so as not to prevent the extension of the state of alarm. And I do want to say something to those parliamentary groups, and significantly to the main opposition party, about their refusal to extend the state of alarm. Let us see, Mr Casado, between unity and the far right you have chosen the far right, and rise here to this rostrum, display a wide cast - quite wide, even exceeding the time given to each of the spokespersons of the various parliamentary groups on the Board of Spokesmen -, a wide cast - I mean - of insults, reproaches, disqualifications, half truths and arguments that the truth is that they sound, even quite eccentric, if not otherwise, in justifying their no. Even, it has come from here, from this rostrum, to use ETA's argument to vote that not to the state of alarm. That shows, Mr Casado, that you have no argument to vote against the state of alarm. [[Applauds]] The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that with the vote against the People's Parliamentary Group, what you are doing is resigning from the main responsibility of the opposition leader, which is a State responsibility, a responsibility to defend public health and save the lives of Spaniards. And you, Mr Casado, and your group are doing what they are doing is resigning from the enormous responsibility of the Spanish people for the main opposition party. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Casado, you have no argument to oppose the extension of the state of alarm, none. You've come here and you tell us that if with the Public Health Act, if with the National Security Act... In short, it puts us a Christmas tree to justify in some way that you are going to vote no to the extension of the state of alarm, but you know perfectly well that the only way we have to stop the spread of the virus, as we are doing since March 14, is with the state of alarm, because it is precisely the instrument that recognizes us in the Constitution in its article 166. Look, our system has an approved law - and it has previously referred to some parliamentary group and I have referred to it later - in 1981, on the initiative of a government not suspected of being a social communist, presided over by Mr Calvo Sotelo. That 1981 Act regulates - as we have discussed in some other extensions - the state of alarm, emergency and site, and that Act, in its chapter 2, deals precisely with the state of alarm and explains in which situations the state of alarm should be declared. I would like to record in the Journal of Sessions some of the issues referred to in this organic law. For example, Article 4 reads as follows: 'The Government, in use of the powers conferred on it by Article 116.2 of the Spanish Constitution, may declare the state of alarm, in whole or in part of the national territory, when there are any of the following serious disturbances of normalcy: (a) Disasters, calamities or public misfortunes, such as earthquakes, floods, urban and forest fires or major accidents. (b) health crises, such as epidemics and serious pollution.' And it then mentions, ladies and gentlemen, other situations of paralysis of essential public services for the community or of destitution of basic necessities. Therefore, Mr Casado, the law envisages the state of alarm precisely for cases of health crises such as epidemics, such as the one we are living in right now in our country. And I ask you, Your Honor, because you are the main leader of the opposition in our country: Do you know that this is the most serious epidemic that has occurred in Spain in the last century? That this is the most serious epidemic since that law was passed in 1981? If not now, Your Honor, in what situation of health crisis or epidemic do you consider that the state of alarm should be applied in our country? [[Applauds]] Do you find a few 27,000 dead in our country, Your Honor? Do you think 2 million people are infected, according to the seroprevalence study? Do you find little the situation that our hospitals, our healthcare professionals, had to live on the brink of collapse, especially in those autonomous communities that you govern? What would have to happen, ladies and gentlemen, if you were to consider that there is a serious health crisis or an epidemic in order to be able to approve the state of alarm? [[Rumors]] But, beyond the laws, Your Honor, you are licensed in law and I am convinced that, therefore, you will be empathetic with the arguments, for example, of the Law of the State. Well, the Government has requested, over these ten weeks, up to three times, the opinion of this body as to whether or not it is appropriate to maintain the state of alarm to address this crisis, three, the last, on 5 May, following the extension in the descalation phase. I suppose, I insist, that as a law graduate you will be interested in the opinion of the State Advocate. I quote literally what the State Advocate's report says: Since it is essential - the State Attorney's Office says - to continue to maintain limitations on the freedom to walk throughout the national territory in order to contain the pandemic, there is no legal alternative - Mr Casado, listen to me - to the state of alarm that would restrict the fundamental right of article 19 of the Spanish Constitution with the said general scope, which is indeed shared. I repeat, Mr Casado, the State Advocate says that there is no legal alternative to the state of alarm. Article 19, I remind you, Your Honor, refers to freedom of movement. That is, there is no alternative, says the State Advocate. There's no alternative, Mr. Married, there's no plan B. Plan A is science, plan B is the superstition in which you have installed your parliamentary group in raising your political position on the state of alarm. There is no plan B, Mr Casado, to limit freedom of movement; the freedom of movement, Your Honor, which calls for, for example, the President of the Murcia Region, who asks the President of the Board of Castile and León or the President of Andalusia not to move people from affected areas to others and who can transmit the infection. What did Mr. Mañueco say, what did Mr. López Miras say or what did Mr. Moreno Bonilla of his party say about the free transit of Madridns infected with Spanish territory? You say that there is a plan B and quotes a muddle of various laws and rules to at least hide the emptiness of your argument, the lack of political, legal and technical support that is required of the main opposition party at this critical moment that is living Spain and that is living the world. As you're a law graduate, Mr. Married, let's remember what the state's attorney says about that alleged plan B. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] The State Advocate says: Although the Organic Law 3/1986 of 14 April on special measures in the field of public health - which is one of the ones you mentioned in that plan to which you refer - empowers the health authorities to take certain measures in order to protect public health and prevent its loss or deterioration and when they so require health reasons of urgency or necessity. And says the State Attorney, Mr.Married: None of these measures... Listen to me, Mr. Married. Mr. Married, I'm just asking you to listen to me. I say it because, if you haven't been advised, I really want you to correct your decision because it seems to me to be a mistake even for your political party and yourself, but, anyway... [[Rumors]] Look at what the State Attorney says. It says: None of these measures - to which you refer to Organic Law 3/1986 of 14 April -, none of these measures - says the State's lawyer - enables these authorities to act in the face of a health emergency that, potentially affecting the entire population, not particular persons or specific groups of them, and throughout the national territory, as is the case with COVID-19, requires the adoption of restrictions on a fundamental right such as the freedom of movement of article 19 of the fundamental text with this broad subjective and spaced scope. This is what the State Advocate says, ladies and gentlemen. There will be parliamentary groups to which the opinion of the State Advocate does not interest them, but the main opposition party, which is required to have minimal State responsibility, should be sensitive to this argument, which is not political, but legal. The State Advocate continues, ladies and gentlemen, by saying the following: For this affection for fundamental rights, the less it is possible to find such authorization in Law 14/1986 of 25 April, General de Sanidad - which is another of those which Mr Casado has argued to excuse that they are going to abstain or vote in favour of the state of alarm, because they say that there are these other alternatives - whose Article 26 - continues to say the State Advocate - does not take the possibility of taking such measures on persons, as neither does Article 54 of the most recent Law 33/2011 of 4 October, General de Saúde Pública. That's what the State Attorney says, Your Honor. I'll tell you what's going on, Mr. Married. Of course the state of alarm is constitutional, of course it is necessary and essential for the descalation. That's why you voted on several occasions, Mr. Married. What happens now is that you don't have an alternative, you don't have an alternative to fight the virus now nor have you ever had it. The one who does have a plan B is Mr. Abascal. That does have a plan B, but your plan is not to fight the virus, Mr. Married. Mr. Abascal's plan is not to fight the virus. Mr Abascal's plan is to use the virus to overthrow a legitimate and democratic government, and you are contributing precisely to the strategy of the far right in our country and that is why I have said that, between being useful to the Spaniards, defending public health, saving the lives of the Spaniards and embracing the far right, you have made the historic mistake of hugging the far right by voting no to the state of alarm. [[Applauds]] Let us go to the intellectual author, Mr Abascal, of the position contrary to the extension of the state of alarm of the People's Parliamentary Group, which are you and your group. Your intervention, Mr Abascal, has left aside homosexuals, the defense so on fire and so intense that you did in the previous extension of homosexuals, which we thank you for. I reminded you that you logically belonged to a political party that resorted to all those laws linked to equality between men and women, equality, diversity and civil rights in our country. Except for that, where is the state of alarm in your intervention? You've talked about the Civil War, you've threatened the government to take us to prison. It is fortunate that we are in a democratic and legal state, Mr Abascal, and therefore there is the judiciary, the executive and the legislature! Anyway, you're already seen ways of where you're going. You talk about Civil War, you threaten the government to take us all to jail, you talk about communism, you talk about the media as well. Even Mr Abascal - you will tell me what will have to do with the state of alarm - makes a negationist speech about climate change and, of course, speaks of Spain. Yes, you come here and say that where the Government of Spain took the 2040s. From Europe, Mr Abascal. It is true that you do not believe in Europe either, but I want you to know that this is a government that aligns itself with many of these positive crisis response policies. You do not align yourself more with the reactionary responses to this crisis from the health and social and economic point of view; from the health point of view, denying science and precisely criticizing those who are demonstrating great professionalism and also a great commitment to Spain, as is, for example, the director of CCAES, Dr. Simon. [[Applauds]] But you come here and give us lessons of patriotism and Spain; you are the only one who can talk about Spain and deny the rest, let's say, our love for Spain and criticise that lack of desire of United Podemos and the Socialist Party towards Spain. But the Spain that you defend, Mr Abascal, is a very small, very small Spain, is a Spain very linked to the speech of hatred that you defend from this rostrum, which expels many people and with which we do not feel at all aligned or feel that society as our own. It is an isolated Spain, it is a Spain in which you try to inoculate fear. But fortunately, Mr Abascal, I want to tell you that this society, that Spain is much bigger than what you represent, that, fortunately, it is a democratic Spain, it is a Spain that embraces rights, freedoms, wants progress, wants to look to the future and does not want to go back to the past. Look, I will only tell you one thing, Mr Abascal, about you and your party: you historical coherence have everything because today you follow the same parameters and the same discourse as your predecessors, not only during these forty years of democracy, but during the forty years of dictatorship of this country. [[Applauds]] Mr Echenique, I can only share many of the things you have said and I will also tell you, Mr Echenique, that it is true that we have listened to the leader of the main opposition party, who has ruled this country for fifteen years and is ruling many autonomous communities affected by the pandemic, and it is also true that we have listened to the leader of a party that does not believe in democracy. And the worrying thing is that I have found no difference either in the tone or in the background of the speeches of the right and the right. This is how serious it is happening in our country, that the virus is being used to overthrow a government that is doing precisely what I have done from this rostrum: applaud, recognize and empathize with all the autonomous governments, whatever political sign they may be. [[Applauds]] I'll tell Mr. Rufián a few things. The first, with all due respect, Mr Rufián, and I believe that Mr Bal has also replied, is that here we are not talking about supporting a government; here we are talking about providing the government with the only instrument - and here are the State Advocate's reports - of the only instrument that the Spanish Government has right now to be able to deal effectively with the pandemic. By the way, we are making a new effective front to the pandemic, and I recalled it earlier: there was a 35% daily increase in the number of people infected before the state of alarm and today we are below 0.2 of the reproduction rate. Therefore, do not stain this Government on wanting to join conservative political forces, because it makes it very easy for me, Mr Rufián. Who do you rule with in Catalonia? With a progressive party? We don't get that much, Mr. Rufián, we don't get that much. He speaks of the truth: the truth is, the truth, the truth..., and the truth is, Mr. Rufián, that you are going to vote against the only instrument we have right now to be able to deal with the pandemic. The truth is, Mr Rufián, that from this rostrum to me you will have heard only words of appreciation to each and every one of the autonomous governments and also to the Catalan government, although I have many discrepancies on some issues. The truth is that we, Your Honor, have been negotiating with you until this morning to see if we could convey those conciliation policies and we have told you that we are talking to the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces precisely to use part of that surplus in conciliation policies. The truth is, Your Honor, that we, in the stages of descalation that we have raised and agreed with the various autonomous communities, one of the issues that we recognized was the ability of communities to open children's schools, schools from 0 to 6 years and beyond, and also, although we know that they do not, let us say, meet that objective by their nature, at least compensate for the difficulties of reconciliation that families have in our country as a result of reactivation. The truth is, Your Honor, that we have maintained and that I maintain the investment commitments. I have told you here, from this rostrum - it is in the Journal of Sessions - and in other debates that you and I have had, Mr Rufián. The truth is, Your Honor, the next one, and you are going to vote that no, you are going to vote again with the PP and with the ultra-right, but that is not why you are an ultra-right party, and the same argument that is worth to you is also valid for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can, which are the two parties that support this coalition government, yes, progressive, of the left, which is doing so much to ensure that no one is left behind. The truth is, Mr Rufián, that I very much appreciate the dialogue I have with Squerra Republicana and that I want to continue practicing it throughout this legislature, which I remind you has four years ahead; four years. [[Applauds]] Mrs Borràs, we thought they were serious when they told us that they wanted to negotiate this extension of the state of alarm, but honestly I do not think it is right to use arguments of political projects such as that with an independent Catalonia, as you have come to say, little less that more lives had been saved than being under the umbrella of this evil and inefficient Spanish State. Let's go to the data, as you encourage me to share them with your honor. Catalonia appears - its party has ruled Catalonia a few years, a series of years - in the 14th position of the classification of all the autonomous communities in the report on the health services of the autonomous communities of 2019 prepared not by the Government of Spain, but by the Federation of Associations for the Defense of Public Health: the 14th. It is an autonomous community, the Catalan one, with more private than public beds, specifically 19,699 private beds versus 14,916 public ones, according to data published on the website of the Ministry of Health. Catalonia is the autonomous community that invests the least percentage of its health expenditure in the remuneration of health personnel, 35%, Public Health Expenditure Statistics 2018, edition 2020. Catalonia is the second autonomous community with less public health spending on gross domestic product, 4.7%, Public Health Expenditure Statistics 2018, 2020 edition. Against this background, Mrs Borràs, I believe that the option of working together has undoubtedly been the best solution for the whole of Spanish society and, in particular, for Catalan society. On the other hand, I would remind you and the other speakers that in the co-governance proposal and in the de-escalation plans that we adopted in the Council of Ministers two weeks ago we incorporated 83% of the measures proposed by the Autonomous Communities. The integration exercise that the Spanish Government has done, dialogue, dialogue and agreement with all the autonomous communities, I think, is remarkable. Probably for you and for many of those present here it is not outstanding or honorable registration, but a remarkable one I think we deserve in the face of this very critical situation. That coordination work, far from being completed, Mrs Borràs, will be intensified over the coming weeks, as the autonomous communities recover all that normality, and consequently mobility restrictions or restrictions on freedom of assembly in our country will not be necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be frank, let us accept the reality of this situation, let us accept it. It is not a virus that deals with administrative, territorial, gender and social boundaries, nor is it an ideological issue. The Government will always be receptive to all coherent and resolute proposals in the face of future problems and challenges, we will always be, as we have been from the beginning. Let us not waste time building false abuses where there are none, false grievances that have never existed and comparisons that can only harm us in our common action. I thank Mr Errejón for the tone, the support he has been giving to the Government of Spain during these weeks. I know it's hard, it's hard for a progressive party like yours, for a progressive government. I have said this on many occasions: the state of alarm is not a political project, it is a necessity, it is an instrument. We try to be right, I have said it from this rostrum; I have recognized mistakes, I have asked for forgiveness and apologies for those mistakes. I am perfectly empathizing with who is now ruling in different autonomous communities because they are facing the same thing that I am facing. I have not criticized any president or president of any party, and reasons have given me some, Mr Errejón, but I have not done so because I have to practice firsthand the unity and loyalty I ask of the parliamentary groups in this House. And I have to acknowledge to your group - and I appreciate it - that unity and loyalty that you have given us and that you have offered us over these difficult weeks. Mr. Baldoví, I don't understand your position; I really don't understand it. [[Mr Baldoví Roda speaks words that are not perceived]] We are proposing an extension other than the state of alarm, there are no longer four delegated authorities, only one: the Ministry of Health. We are saying that this is the last extension of this long month of June to tackle descalation as effectively as possible. We have had an extraordinary bilateral dialogue with the Government of the Valencian Generalitat over the past few weeks and, in particular, over the last few days. We are working with you not only to inject liquidity into fundamental issues such as the precariousness of, for example, the Government of the Valencian Generalitat, which I have never denied. From here, from this rostrum I have always called for recognition of the underfunding that you have communities like yours, in which you rule with us. At the beginning of my speech I said that at the beginning of this state of alarm we gave more than EUR 1 billion to the Ministry of Health and were able to inject resources into the autonomous communities to deal precisely with this extraordinary expenditure that we had to face together in the field of public health. And now you say it goes from yes to no because the Government of Spain approves a non-refundable fund of EUR 16 billion for the first time in the democratic history of this country for the autonomous communities. And it does so because it does not entirely agree with the criteria of distribution, when we will have to discuss it among all the parliamentary groups present here, Your Honor; I do not understand it. Besides, it seems to me that it is a negative message that we are moving. Right now we are in the last meters of this state of alarm and, therefore, it would be desirable for you to think about the meaning of your vote and the message that you are conveying to the whole of Valencian citizenship. I have the data here: on 14 May the Government agreed to allocate to the Autonomous Communities EUR 4152 million to compensate 75% of the deviation from the 2019 deficit target, apart from the additional EUR 16 billion that we are going to put in the hands of the Autonomous Communities. And that's why you're going to vote no? In addition, the Government is negotiating with its own, as it is with other autonomous governments and also with parliamentary groups, that before the end of this month we can start a vital minimum income. I do not know, Mr Baldoví, I think it would be worth it if you reconsidered your position, your vote against, that I do not think they deserve the Valencians or the whole of Spanish society. I leave him there because it would be worth it if he reconsidered his position. I say this with all due respect and appreciation to your group and your party, to the work you are doing in Valencia and to the work you personally, as a Member, do in this House; work that I recognize, appreciate and value in personal and political terms. I would like to thank Mr Rego for his abstention. It talks about interprovincial mobility and, indeed, this is a debate that we have had not only with the Galician Government, but also with other governments. I believe that Galicia's epidemiological situation is going to invite this to happen soon, but, Mr Rego, we really follow absolutely scientific criteria. Some parliamentary group questions who these scientists are; they are the Directors General of Public Health of the Autonomous Governments, it is the CCAES, it is the Directorate General of Public Health of the Ministry of Health and, ultimately, it is the Government of Spain, through its delegated competence in the Ministry of Health to issue orders and rules under the state of alarm. Mr Bal, I naturally thank you for the support of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group for this extension. I also thank him for the arguments he has made, which are not of affinity or alignment with the political priorities of the Government of Spain. I hope you'll hear from some other parliamentary groups. Indeed, we are not choosing partners, what we are doing is choosing between defending public health and saving lives in our country or not, and in that regard I have to acknowledge the political decision your group makes. I also agree with one thing, Mr Bal; in the position that you and your group maintain, it is seen in an eloquent way and it is shown that with ten seats you can be much more useful than with eighty-nine, that you can become absolutely irrelevant by aligning yourself with the far right. I would like to tell you that in order for the economic revival to which you have referred to to be as solid as possible, beyond the fact that we actually have to talk and attend to different groups - which, logically, the Spanish Government is doing - as I said in my first speech, I find a number of things fundamental: the first, that the descalation plan works effectively, and that is why we all have to meet the scientific criteria. I say this more than anything about those places where you rule with the People's Party, by the way, with the support of the far right, the party of the no, which you have reproached for your positions. The second is social and economic reconstruction, and we therefore look forward to the proposals that you can make in this parliamentary committee. And, third, the European sphere, where indeed your parliamentary group and ours, together with others, we are agreeing on quite a few of the remedies that are being advanced by the European institutions and governments as relevant as those of France and Germany. Mr Esteban, I know that the situation we are experiencing is very difficult, and I understand perfectly well that a political project like the one you embody here in the General Courts is as uncomfortable as the state of alarm, as it can bother me or the rest of the members of the Government. Believe me, I empathize and fully understand the difficulty. That is why I am much more appreciative of your affirmative support for the extension of the state of alarm. Indeed, I believe that we are facing the last steps of the state of alarm - I hope! - at least from the point of view of what the political rational strategy is because we are facing something unknown. Believe me, we are already in the final stages of this state of alarm and, therefore, I am even more appreciative of the positive position of your parliamentary group because, indeed, there is already a certain tiredness, a certain tiredness of the recurring arguments that we are using in each and every one of the debates. I appreciate that you and your group recognize the effort we are making to cooperate and involve the Autonomous Communities in this co-governance. I would like you to acknowledge that in these last steps - because we are already on the move and not as we were on 14 March - the only delegated authority will be the Ministry of Health and, consequently, I believe that it is an implicit recognition by the Government of Spain that we are already in the final stages of raising the state of alarm. And, indeed, I have told the Vice-President that we are going to work in the areas that you have mentioned to see if there is no need to amend those laws and we can come up with other alternatives. In any case, what I do want to say to you, for the record in the Journal of Sessions again, is that this is a government that believes in the autonomous state; this is a government that, at the beginning of the whole pandemic, when we decree the state of alarm, I myself, in the first person, defended the state of alarm and I have defended the management of each and every one of the autonomous governments, and with some, not with his, I have some differences that cannot be imagined how radically different and opposite they are, but I have defended each and every one of the efforts that the autonomous governments have made. There has been no reproach from my mouth to any autonomous government, no matter what the sign is, because I feel co-responsibility and I am perfectly empathetic with the situation they are dealing with and, therefore, this debate is not going to bring - and I guarantee that - any speed of re-centralisation. This is a government that believes in the autonomous state. I would like to thank Mrs Aizpurua for her tone and also for her abstention. And I will tell you, as I have said on many other occasions, that this commitment of investiture that can be clearly realized in a great agreement of different progressive forces, also with yours, to repeal labor reform, remains indelible. Therefore, when, logically, we get out of this whole health emergency - we all want out of it as soon as possible - we will obviously resume our parliamentary priorities. In addition, local authorities, outlaws and local authorities will have greater spending capacity for public policies aimed at alleviating the conditions and consequences of COVID. This is the same thing we are asking for in Europe, so we are also applying it here. Hence also the non-reimbursable fund of EUR 16 billion that we are going to put in the hands of the autonomous communities, of which EUR 10 billion will go to the field of public health, health expenditure. And really, Mrs. Aizpurua, criticize me whatever you want, whatever you want, but don't tell me we're changing partners. Listen to Mr. Bal, I'm not telling you. Mr Bal is saying that this is not a debate about who is the partner of the Government of Spain. We aspire to bring forward many of these laws - to which I have previously referred - in the course of the legislature that we have before us, also with regard to labour reform, although it will logically be with different forces to the right. Therefore, we are not talking about choosing partners, but about choosing to defend public health or not. In that regard, at least I am grateful that you do not interfere with a vote against it and that, with the abstention of the Spanish Government, you can continue to use this instrument. Madam spokesman for the UPC, I believe that if your genuine commitment is to democratic values, it is with the redistribution of opportunities, with the end of injustices, I - I leave it as a reflection that I can share with you - would take advantage of the opportunity, I would take advantage of it, Your Honor; I would take advantage, as many have not been able, of your presence in institutional spaces to fight and make progress in each of those fields. In the end, with their anti-system commitment they are the perfect match for those who do not want to change anything. So be careful that your not by system, does not become a no to the role of change that is inherent in politics and that, of course, we are trying to push from the Spanish Government. Mrs Oramas and Mr Quevedo, I thank you for the tone, the appeals to unity you are making. I want to tell you that, logically, we are a party of government, we lead and we are the first force in the Canary Islands, so we obviously feel absolutely empathetic with the dramatic situation that the islands are experiencing as a result of the tourism crisis. I said this at the beginning of my speech, it is a crisis different from other crises. It is affecting very competitive sectors and it is affecting them precisely because they are sectors that are very exposed to the consequences of this health emergency, such as the closure of activities, the closure of borders and also the freedom of restricted movement between provinces that we have right now. I would therefore like to tell you that we are going to set up a bilateral commission to study the indebtedness of the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands. Logically, as I said before, we share the concern for the tourism sector, so we approve the extension of the tourism ERTs, so we also approve at the beginning of this crisis a specific ICO credit line of 400 million euros. In addition, one of the commitments we have is to promote a plan to relaunch tourism throughout the country and, in particular, on the most damaged islands, such as the Canary Islands. Mr. Sayas, you ask me where I get the data. From the first wave of the seroprevalence study that, in fact, tells us that 5% of the Spanish population has been infected by COVID-19. Therefore, that strategy that was raised - not by you, but by other conservative leaders not here, but at other latitudes - of immunity of herd with which the circulation of the virus could be stopped, has been shown to be a disaster, a mistake without palliatives. Therefore, the management, humbly, with all the mistakes that you can certainly underline and point out, that the Government of Spain has committed is the one that is following all the countries of the world, the only possible way, and we would like to do so and move it along with as much unity as possible. Where do I get the data? According to this study of seroprevalence, one can infer that we could have reached two thirds of the contagion of the Spanish population and, therefore, if the real lethality, as established by this study of seroprevalence, is 1%, then 300,000 people would have lost their lives if we had not proposed the strategy of confinement so difficult and so hard that the Spaniards have followed with absolute social discipline, as the Government of Spain has proposed. On the ICO lines I would like to remind you of what I said in my first speech: the first three tranches have been activated, we go for the fourth, worth EUR 64 500 million; 371 000 operations have been formalised and a total of EUR 47 751 million financed. On the other hand, we do not oppose the holding of demonstrations, I have said this in my public appearances, which you repeatedly criticize every time you come up to this rostrum, and also from this rostrum. We do not criticize the objective, the purpose of the demonstrations; what we do is criticize those irresponsible behaviors that put at risk the public health that we have all strengthened in these ten weeks of state of alarm, as a result of not complying with those rules of distancing. Norms which I do not command, which I do not propose to the whole of Spanish society, but which are proposed to me by the health authorities, but not by the CCAES; which are proposed by the WHO, which are proposed by the European health authorities; in short, any epidemiologist, who votes and thinks what he thinks. I wanted to answer this question because it seems important to me. I would like to say to Mr Mazón that, of course, we are interested in co-governance, among other things, because I remind him that we govern with you in Cantabria, and therefore, of course, we rely on the autonomous governments, especially those where the Socialist Party is, at least for the Socialist Party, because, of course, we share the task with you, and also in areas very affected by this crisis; look, with Mr Revilla and other autonomous presidents, for example Mr Lambán, and I regret that Teruel's spokesman is not here. And also, by the way, I take this opportunity, and as I have been informed that the spokesman for Forum Asturias has been diagnosed with COVID, I want it to appear in the Journal of Sessions that we wish him, on behalf of the Government and in my particular name, a speedy recovery. Returning to the reflection that I wanted to share with you, I do not know whether it was yesterday or is today, Minister of Health, when we are going to publish the phase of descalation for the rural environment, which is something that have asked different autonomous governments at that conference of presidents, including Mr Revilla. There have been questions that have to do with fishing to which we have also responded. Indeed, there is always going to be a difficulty, Mr Mazón, which I want to share with you because, moreover, you have made reference to that empathy which seems so fundamental to me. When we talk about this plan of descalation we are talking about asymmetry, we are talking about coordination and we are talking about graduality. As for graduality, obviously there will be people, collectives who will not understand why an activity is reopened in phase 1 and not in phase 2. There is always, even under technical and scientific criteria, a degree of discretion. It can be criticized, for example, that the Spanish Government has allowed small businesses to be reopened first in respect of large areas. There is a decision that also has to do with mobility, the large areas encourage greater mobility than the small neighborhood trade, but also we logically want to allow those sectors and collectives, such as, for example, the small trade, which certainly do not have the financial muscle that do have those large areas, to reopen before to resume activity and survive this unprecedented situation that we are facing. I want to say with this that we are obviously empathetic, we listen to the autonomous governments, we are doing many things thanks to these conferences of presidents and the interterritorial councils led by Minister Illa, but, in any case, there is obviously a degree of discretion that does not have so much to do with Madrid being far from the local, which we recognize. I insist that we have not taken away the management in many areas of policy from the autonomous communities, especially those that have nothing to do with, for example, the health field; although there is a degree of discretion, I can assure you that it is always technically and healthly based. I thank you, Mr. Mazón, logically, for your support of the state of alarm. It seems to me that this is fundamental at this moment and, above all, when citizenship, we see it on the street, it begins to breathe illusion, hope. They are leaving their homes, recovering daily, they are recovering spaces of freedom after having demanded, as they have done, an enormous degree of confinement, extremely hard in our country. This Congress must convey a message of empathy with that illusion and hope that is seen right now in the eyes and faces of citizens. We cannot say that no to an extension of the state of alarm when the Spaniards know, think what they think and vote for what they vote for, which is the instrument we need, especially now, in these last meters, to bring this descalation to a successful conclusion. That is why I appeal to the responsibility that your group does manifest. As far as Mrs Lastra is concerned, I understand that the Socialist Group is also having a very difficult time. I thank him for the tone, the words, the defense he makes of the Government. There is something you said at the beginning of your intervention, Adriana, which seems to me to be key; in the end, the memory of the victims, their memory, the memory and the tribute we give to the healthcare professionals and all those who are working for these long weeks and also the desire for prompt recovery of the sick who are today in hospitals, is what moves the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Government of Spain at this time to humbly ask their lordships for a further extension of the state of alarm. That is what we ask and hope, ladies and gentlemen, that from a political but also a moral point of view, we all assume that we are legitimate representatives of Spanish citizens. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Before we begin the turn of reply, I would like to recall that the speaking times are not arbitrarily assigned by the Presidency but are provided for in the Rules of Procedure and agreed by the Board of Spokesmen. That is why I want to ask all interveners to make the correct use of the time they have allocated. Thank you so much. The representatives of the various parliamentary groups will then speak and, first of all, for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, you are talking about transparency and I will ask you a very quick question: why don't you say the names of the experts? I'm saying this because, since you've become a legalist, you're failing to comply with the 2011 General Public Health Act. Then you can't talk about transparency if some experts are unknown to all Spaniards. It also talks about international impact, I don't know if CNN and the fifteen media I read the other day are few to determine the analysis they make of their management outside our borders. And talk about ETA, look, we don't use ETA. The one who has just whispered thanks to you for your abstention from the Batasuna spokesman of Bildu has been you. [[Applauds]] And you should be ashamed because just yesterday they attacked the headquarters of the Basque Socialist Party. He said exactly: Don't worry that I don't change partners, and I should have listened to Mr. Edmundo Bal. It is regrettable that a party with so many victims is listening to the spokesman for a formation that has not condemned the murders either of its own ranks or of our own or of any other innocent Spanish. [[Applauds]] On the state of alarm, it is worrying that a president of the government of the fourth euro economy says that the legal system is a Christmas tree. I am not going to ask you to look at me, Mr Sánchez, because, frankly, you never look at me and give me exactly the same, but learn a little bit you, Mr. Doctor of Economics, learn a little bit, because the state of alarm is based on the legislation in force. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u67	You don't have to make use of the State Attorney's reports, look how it went to Edmundo Bal for bringing you the opposite. His Government did not respect anything, either the Attorney-General's Office or the CNI or the CIS or the Attorney-General's Office. [[Applauds]] You brought an ad hoc report. In addition, I tell you one thing; the report we have made has been done with the same state lawyers who were in the government until two years ago, and who will be back very soon. And those reports are what they said the other day to their vice-president, who already assumes that the Special Measures Act can be amended. The only confirmation we had between Mrs Calvo and me was that she said that after summer and I said: no, listen, no, do it by urgent procedure, but you wanted to get to the holidays with three months without parliamentary control. [[Rumors]] Listen, Mr Sánchez, Article 11 of the Alarm Act 1981, paragraph (a): You may limit the movement or stay of persons or vehicles at certain times and places, or condition them to meet certain requirements. This, which is what Manuel Aragón, the judge of the Constitutional Court proposed by you, Consuelo Madrigal, who is currently a judge in the Supreme Court, and so many jurists, has been saying to you for two months, that the constitutional type of the state of alarm has been overtaken and, therefore, we have not put forward motions for resolutions. Another thing is that, in the face of the collapse of the ICUs, as many countries have done, an exceptional measure must be taken that is absolutely temporary. Of all the laws you have described, let me tell you that you have forgotten the most important one, which is the only organic law that we would propose to you, Organic Law 3/1986, on Special Measures in Public Health Matters, which in its third article does allow the Government to take the measures it deems necessary for the control of communicable diseases. Therefore, within fifteen days, on the basis of this law, the law can be adapted to emerge from constitutional exceptionality. But there is something more important that is article 55 of the Constitution, and that is that fundamental rights are not allowed to be limited, and you are doing so, already abusing, the right to assembly, to movement, to freedom of religion or to demonstration. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, stop challenging the House. He asked in his speech what rights we want to recover. Well, everyone, because our rights are not yours, they are ours, they are of the free and equal citizens in Spain. Now that he talks with this arrogance of his disastrous management that has caused 27,000 victims - by the way, now he's been quoting them; he's been hiding the victims for two months, not even quoting them in his speeches - and now he's talking about the four million unemployed, I'm going to tell him something about the opposition; does Obama seem very disloyal to him for meddling with Trump's management? Of course, there are oppositions and there are political leaders who get involved when, according to them, governments do it wrong. I have proposed to you in the legal plan four ways: the Polish one - which is the one you have chosen, a state of alarm without temporal limit - the German one, the Italian one or the French one. I'll tell you again. The President of the Commission, the President of the Council and the Commissioner for Justice, who is not from the PP, have already said that all countries have to leave the state of exceptionality. I read to him the other day all the countries of the European Union, and now only Poland, Hungary and Spain are left. Therefore, you can take the Italian way, which is to make a decree; you can take the French way, which is to make an organic law; or you can take the one we propose, the German way, which is to use the legislation in force. Even so, we proposed that, if he wanted, he could qualify it with a quick reform and a single article of the Organic Law of 1986; by the way, promulgated with a government of his party. Doctor of Economics, don't make that distinction between health and economy again. How can health and employment be separated? How is public health sustained without employment, without contributors and without people who consume and pay taxes? Very simple, as you did ten years ago, putting a €1.5 billion hack into the public health system, which is what we do not want to do. [[Applauds]] In short, Mr Sánchez, you are already the face of the failure to manage this crisis. His image is that of the false test, that of the defective mask, that of the reckless manifestation and that of the Aluche tails. He's not up to it and he's shown it again. It is every day more alone, every day more isolated, every day weaker and, above all, every day without giving an effective response to the drama that Spain is experiencing. Mr. Sanchez, not like this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. You say, Mr Sánchez, that Mr Abascal has a plan B, which is to overthrow a legitimate and democratic government. We are consistent and predictable; what we have is a plan A, and that is that you assume your responsibilities for a criminal management that has cost thousands of Spaniards their lives. This should be graceful to you because you have come here to laugh from the rostrum, when addressing me, about the possible judicial responsibilities that you may have to face. And I have to inform you that Mr. Junqueras was also laughing at VOX's allegations. You come here - you have told Mr. Married above all - and insistently ask that you listen to him and look at him, which is not what he usually does. And you came today and answered me, but do you know what you answered me to? You have responded to my speech 15 days ago, you have not responded to my speech today. You're going 15 days late with me. I think what happens is that Mr Redondo prepares it - which, by the way, prepares it badly, because it's made a blanket, it's a little flattering - and so you find yourself in this situation. You relate the number of press briefings given by the Government to the volume of information. Our group relates it to the volume of government misinformation, because it was in one of those government press conferences when Mr. Fernando Simón - I don't know whether doctor or graduate, because I have been corrected - said that there was no risk of contagion on 8 March. You are the president who has had the most media coverage in history and you are also the one who has said a greater volume of lies. That is why we come here to reiterate to you, Mr Sánchez, that your government is bad for the health, for the life and for the economy of the Spaniards, and to ask you to pay the payroll to all those Spaniards who have prevented them from working and resign to give way to a national emergency government that is credible to the Spaniards, a broad-spectrum government that is credible in Europe. On the other hand, he comes here to ask us for unity and silence, with a government that - mainly through his vice-president - encourages political violence, with a gentleman like the vice-president, expert in issuing anti-fascist alerts, who from this rostrum - and of which you have not spoken - calls unclean 4 million Spaniards, who animate the squabbles against the houses of the opposition leaders - something we would never do -. Therefore, it is he who spreads hatred and not this group, as you constantly denounce. Besides, you're overstepping all boundaries. Mr Grande-Marlasca - whom I have left alone in my first speech - I have to tell you that the Ministry of the Interior seems to be working to intimidate the Spaniards: first to monitor social networks and now - according to the reports we have read from the police in the media - you have asked them to identify the instigators of the caceroladas. That is, thousands of Spaniards who, through social networks, in their neighborhoods, spontaneously, are organizing and encouraging these protests. Here is a Spanishman who is also instigating and encouraging these protests. What are you going to do? What are you going to do against us? Are you going to sue us for applauding the Spaniards who exercise their right to protest legitimately, responsibly and civically? You have given instructions to identify on the streets people who walked with Spanish flags; there are socialist mayors who are dedicated to illegally closing squares so that they cannot protest; they privatize the streets to protect members of the government, who have not been threatened by anyone; the Civil Guard is missing in many villages and a lot of people worried because it has no one to call, because it is afraid of the robberies. Where is the Civil Guard in the rural world? All at the home of the members of the Government. Meanwhile, on the part of the Vice-President of the Government, they send their gangs called anti-fascists to scare people - in Alcorcón, in Vallecas -. You have crossed all boundaries and ask us for unity. But perhaps the most important thing I have heard today - and I think it is the only news you have brought to the debate - is that you have come to blame the protesters for a possible resurgence. Maybe that explains why they all showed up in masks today. We have been here for two months, in the midst of the pandemic, practically without a single mask, and today everyone has come here to organize the scene of the masks, all to hold the Spaniards responsible, in a context in which today, for example, in Madrid, there have been five new infections. With five new infections you all appear with mask; in the middle of the pandemic, none of you. That is why I want to pay tribute to the protesters, who are demonstrating and protesting in a civic way, with masks and keeping the distances of security, which you have not done all this time. And I also want to denounce the arbitrary ban on demonstrations. What is it that we can manifest in Castile-La Mancha within vehicles - what risk of contagion is there - and we can't do it in Catalonia because Mr. Grande-Marlaska forbids us with his signature or we can do it in Castile-Leon because he takes advantage of the health counselor's report, which must say that there are contagions within vehicles? What is the reason for your decisions? Why do they act arbitrarily? Why do they allow demonstrations to the protera in Navarre and try to prevent demonstrations to the Spaniards who want to make a caravan of vehicles? By the way, they're still fighting neighborhoods. I must remind you that Mr. Iglesias triples the average rent of neighborhoods such as the neighborhood of Salamanca, which seems to want to be placed in the picota by the pomasite bench. I take this opportunity to express our concern at the silence of the Constitutional Court in the Journal of Sessions. We welcomed the previous statement that our appeal had been admitted; we hope that the Constitutional Court will not take several years to resolve something that is so important and that is probably the most important question of constitutionality that has arisen since 1978, which is the denunciation of this state of alarm that has really become a state of emergency. Please, the social shield first and you guys later. And I conclude, Madam President. He says, Mr. Sánchez, that I've come here to talk about communism. You don't listen to me - I don't care - but it's just that you don't listen to your vice president, he's the one who comes to talk about communism. If you don't listen to your vice president, how can I aspire to him listen to me? Really, it happens to me like Mr. Married, who also cares little about me. And he's also here to talk about VOX's past.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u70	Mr. Abascal, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u71	I'll be done immediately. VOX was born in 2014, VOX is a new game, which has no past. Here who has past is your party, I will not say either you - if I grant you that you are not responsible for that past -: in the year 1934, a coup d'état to the Republic; in the year 1936, an electoral bust. And your vice president - and I hope you won't laugh with this, because it's also not funny - was the one who said that you had a past stained with living lime. Some partners you choose! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u72	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Echenique Robba has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, with regard to the civic demonstrations that encourage both VOX and Mrs Ayuso, I would like to comment on three elements. A few days ago, in one of these civic demonstrations he was frightened and harassed the family of Minister Ábalos; from here I want to send a hug and my support to the family of Minister Ábalos. Recently, at the demonstration at the door of the Socialist Party headquarters we saw well-known neo-Nazi activists who later appeared on social networks with T-shirts reading 'Adolf Hitler was right'. And a few days ago in my city, in Zaragoza, in another of these civic demonstrations, a group of people - including a person with a flag with the symbol of the Falange - dedicated themselves to harassing and fearing a Spanish Television worker, a camera, who had to be protected by the police. Some civic demonstrations, Mr. Abascal. Some civic demonstrations! Secondly, I wanted to address my partner Gabriel Rufián and her partner Mertxe Aizpurua directly. We have a political difference that is well known, we do not want Euskadi or Catalonia to leave Spain, we think we are stronger together, but we have many more things in common: we can as much as Bildu and Republican Left are republicans; we believe in social justice, we defend fiscal justice, we think we have to put a tax on wealth, we think we have to repeal the labour reform of the People's Party, we think we have to boost the care economy, we think we have to protect the people who have to take care of their children and have problems to do so at this time, and in that sense I want to transfer them to the two parliamentary groups that, of course, we are completely clear, we know that when we succeed in overcoming the epidemic we will have to continue implementing social measures, as this government has already done, and we have very clear with whom to negotiate these measures, and I think that Citizens also have quite clear. [[The Lord]] And finally, I just wanted to make a general point. In Spanish we have a word, political, which refers to two different things, but in English there are two words, police and political. Policies refers to measures, to public policies, to what a colleague for whom we have cried a lot these days called program, program, program. Those are cops, what politicians do to improve people's lives. And then in English there are also political ones, which refers to the relationship between the different political parties, to the replies between spokesmen, to the electoral competition. I believe that this epidemic, this tragedy that we are living as a country, at first, when it was more serious, performed a miracle, temporarily suspended politics, what we could call political in Spanish, if we sought a more or less appropriate translation, and put at the center the policy, what we politicians do to protect our country. I hope we can remember that first stage of the pandemic, in which we all engage in police, public policies, and know how to do so in the future. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. [[A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum used by Mr. Echenique Robba]] Next, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Four or five brief comments, because I don't think I give much more of this. The first ones are for Mr. Abascal. You complain that Mr. Marlaska sends you to the police in the Salamanca neighborhood; pray that he will not send you tax inspectors, because there certainly those people would disperse, those people who make noise with the silverware. He also says that VOX is new; I don't doubt it, but I went to school and you were already charging from the People's Party, so you're not new. And then he says Junqueras. It's 'Yunqueras', 'Yun', 'Yunqueras'; it's not difficult, 'Yunqueras'. If I don't tell you Blas Pinar, I say Abascal, I'm sure you can say 'Yunqueras'; I'm sure. Mr. Echenique, thank you very much. Paul, I appreciate the words, but let's see. I think we understand each other. Another comment for Mr José Ignacio Echaniz, Member of the People's Party. Mrs Lastra defends herself, but because of the decorum of this House I think it is necessary to denounce that you said, when she was talking, you will find out! Two things. The first is to find that going to paid schools doesn't make you any more polite, but the second is, do you know what your problem is? Their problem is that the disease equals them and you hate equality, and there is nothing that equals more than the disease, equals your servants and servants. That's fatal, and then they insult, they attack even more. I ask you to stop doing that because it's a real shame, and it's not today. The other comment is for Mr Edmundo Bal. You have said that the dialogue table is a shame, and you have also said it very categorically. I respect you; we have huge differences, but I consider you a complete man. What's the alternative? How can it be a shame to talk? Why? Are we going to disappear? Are you guys going to disappear? Are we all going to jail? Why is a dialogue and negotiation table a shame? I am absolutely convinced that you do not think so. I'm also very sorry that Mr. Sanchez didn't deny you. The last comments for you, Mr Sánchez, for the president. He has made a glimmer of optimism that the legislature is going to last four years. I hope so, and I tell you sincerely, because it will mean that the necessary bridges have been laid, especially for us. But I ask you a very clear question, both to you and to the compañeros and compañeras of Unidad Podemos. What's this legislature about? It can only go with two things. With Citizens it goes one thing and with us it goes another. Do you consider Mr. Baldoví to be a dogmatic, intransigent person, an independent radical? Well, he's very upset today, and he's going to vote no. For something it will be. I say again that sometimes Mr. Baldoví is a good thermometer. The aim is to enlarge the majority and not to replace them, ladies and gentlemen of the Government. I'm done. You have literally asked me this question: Mr. Rufián, with whom do you rule in Catalonia, with a progressive party? We didn't get to that - you said -. Look, I'm hardly suspected of not being critical with the Catalan right, but what you do in the Barcelona City Council, the third institution in Catalonia, what is it?, an excursion club? [[The President of the Government: What do you blame me for?]] They're ruling with them. They cannot be the reactionary right in the Government of Catalonia and not so much in the Barcelona Parliament. With that Catalan right, with which I am sometimes critical, we have approved a tax on banking, a tax on nuclear energy, a guaranteed minimum income. Curious right. I wish there was a right here like the Catalan right. I'll tell you more. I have huge differences with people like Mr Turull, huge, surely we would not agree on anything at all, but we share an end, which is the future of politics: the pact between different, as long as they are democrats. And he's now in jail; he's in jail for defending those ideas consistently, a dangerous right-winger, while left-handed, supposedly, like Mr.Iceta, were self-made with the extreme right in manifestations of Catalan Civil Society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Borràs Castanyer.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Bal, it is not a shame to talk about political prisoners, but that Spain has them. And much has been boasted of having managed to agree with the government on a moratorium on taxes, but yesterday the bank announced that day 2 is going to collect the three-month postponements, from a shot. So we'd better get cleared up. [[The lady]] Mr Sánchez, yesterday we had an illustrative session in the Constitutional Commission with the Tezanos guija, which is what the CIS has become today. And how dare you ask who rules Republican Left in Catalonia? Consult the CEO and see that the voters of Junts per Catalunya are more left than the Catalan Socialist Party, Professor Jordi Matas, University of Barcelona. Moreover, how dare you say it when you are following together what is determining who is presiding over the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, which is President Quim Torra? I don't understand why you're giving progressive lessons. Review your policies, are they progressive? Zero dialogue, zero empathy, only re-centralization, single command, zero self-criticism. Because of the law on gags, 155 digital, who fine-tunes the issues in the prosecutor's office, and the political prisoners, we don't want to talk about it, do we? Okay. On the Catalan health system, please do not say its name in vain; from doctors and nurses, who have been working in an absolutely precarious situation, being the target of the re-centralization of defective purchases in many cases, which puts them as the most affected collective, to pharmacists, who are part of that system and who, for example, have developed contingency and organization plans in record time, which has allowed to collaborate with telemedicine and with medication plans that only the British National Health Service has developed, avoiding more than a million visits to health centres, the same number of fines imposed by the State Security Forces and Bodies. So please do not use the health system as a bold weapon, because you know perfectly well - if you want to talk about funding - that it is the Government's highest budget the Government of Catalonia and the funds it has and the underfunding of this area, it seems to me that it is well known. But we have rechecked his Government's talent, which it seems, seems, but it is never what it seems; it is pure appearance or mere deception. The most progressive government in history may pass into history as the most retrograde and the least dialogueal, in a context in which, without a sufficient majority, it has less attempted to aggregate sensitivities, even in the face of the greatest known health crisis and in the face of an enormous economic and social crisis. But I have to thank you that today, after ten weeks - and I think it was a necessary gesture - you apologized, because there is no possible satisfaction with the figures of the deceased; there is no such thing, and I think it was a necessary gesture and I thank you, Mr Sánchez. But he said that unity saves lives. It does not; it does efficiency and cooperation, not subordination. So stop setting the example of the presidents' conferences, in which you announce to them what you have already announced to the public the day before. That's not dialogue, Mr. Sanchez. We have demanded from the beginning the return of competences, but we have made proposals to it; proposals such as the amendment of four articles and an additional provision of Organic Law 4/1981, of the states of alarm, site and exception, so we have made political proposals, economic proposals, social proposals, labour proposals, cultural proposals and also legal proposals. We warn you - and we continue to warn you - that another state of alarm was possible, even another vision of social, political and economic construction is possible. President Torra avoids talking about reconstruction, because we must not rebuild what has already been revealed as useless; we talk about looking forward, not looking through the rearview mirror. And you, in your misguided management, went to the Pacts of the Moncloa. Keep an eye on them, that if they neglect, they will also propose a new network of swamps. We have finished a committee on restructuring, reconstruction, which is also characterized by constant destabilisation: I now call, I now change; it seems that it is structural destabilisation. That is why we tell them that we are available and willing to work in everything that serves to improve the quality of life of people in a world that will no longer be the same as it was in Catalonia, Spain or the rest of the world, but we will always put human rights and essential democratic principles ahead of us. I'm done, Madam President. You were in front of the COVID-19 pandemic, but you wanted us to put in a COVID-155, and here you have never had our approval. Naomi Klein says shock is a good time for installing new rule systems. I wish it were. In the new reality ahead we will have to work to have the skills and resources to deal with challenges such as this crisis in a faster and more effective way. Today you will prolong your state of alarm.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u78	Mrs. Borràs, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u79	He has despised the alternative that we have proposed to him because in the background we are not talking about models of state of alarm, but about models of state. And you, with your model of state, force us to be on permanent alarm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u80	Thank you very much, Mrs Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u81	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, now. I want to start this replica simply to invoke, to assert the coherence that Citizens have had throughout the state of alarm; underline it again. In all the votes we voted yes because we thought that the state of alarm was the legal tool that could save lives and we tried to vote favorably on the real decree-laws that the Government has brought us, even if we were not very consistent with it, even though we were more demanding, even if we asked for more, because we also thought they were good at making decisions already to fix the socio-economic situation. We are a useful party, we are not a party of no is no, where are the old parties of bipartisanism. Secondly, I would also like to express my strong condemnation of Mr Iglesias' slavery at home yesterday and also of Idoia Mendia of the Basque Socialist Party, at the very hands of Bildu, one of his governing partners, to whom I should draw attention, Mr Sánchez. Of course, please tell Mr. Iglesias not to encourage the squabbles in Mrs. Ayuso's car park or in the house of Mr. Ivan Espinosa de los Monteros because it does not seem that this arena to violence at the moment we are in is precisely the most opportune, as you say - and I say so too - to save lives and to save jobs. Thirdly, I would like to refer to a part of your speech - other parliamentary groups have also mentioned this - which refers to the scientific criteria which allow for the change of phase in different territories, and in this regard I ask you to be transparent because we have not heard of the criteria, the motivation, for which the Community of Madrid has not changed phase. It meets the requirements of the State Official Gazette regarding its hospital capacity and the experts - I don't know if they have pulled a finger and seen where the air passes -, we don't know why, they have denied this phase change, because they also filter the reports only to the newspapers, we don't know and say that until they all go to phase 1 they won't publish those reports. Do you have something to hide? Because if you have nothing to hide, say what that scientific criterion is. I don't have Mr. Rufian in front of me, but then I'll tell him in private. Yes, it is the table of shame; yes, yes, I do not regret anything of the qualification that I put at this table because Esquerra puts it as a condition to negotiate while people die, while people are afraid in their homes, so it is a shame; that is why it is a shame. I would like to recall the hopeful speeches that Mr Rufián made from this rostrum at the beginning of the pandemic, when he said: Viruses do not kill their flags; we cannot fight independence from the virus nor through Spanishism. Well, he's forgotten, and now what interests him is the negotiating table. We try to help the Government usefully to save lives and jobs, and these are the things we negotiate with the Government, the things that produce this effect; the negotiating tables do not save lives, they do not save jobs. And it also tells me that if I don't understand what people are talking about. Of course, respecting the Constitution, respecting the law and within the institutions democratically elected by the Spanish by universal suffrage. This is how democrats are understood in modern and advanced states, and not through pantomimes of dialogue. To Mrs Borràs, first of all, I would like to thank her because she is one of the few, along with me, who regularly uses the mask, and to tell her that, whatever she says, there are no political prisoners in Spain and that the Spaniards are now concerned about many other more urgent things. Nearly 28 000 people have died on the table and continue to insist on political prisoners, who are political prisoners, and I will say this as many times as I need to say it. Don't ask me about the decisions banks make, because I'd already like to be a banker instead of a public servant, and I certainly like to be a public servant rather than a banker. I didn't understand at all what you asked me. What I really want to say is that it's nice to see the people we've upset, it's great to see how well citizens have done this time, like so many other times, with a sense of state and as a useful party. Let's go deeper, Mr. Sanchez, into the deal. We have to be more ambitious, we have to help the self-employed, the disadvantaged, the people who are in a dramatic situation. We need agility in payments, we need, Mrs Yolanda Díaz, a special plan for tourism, to untie it from the ERTE beyond 30 June. There are many things we can continue to talk about for the benefit of all Spaniards, but fill them, fill them, because we are not useful to the Government of Spain, no, we are useful to the Spaniards, who are those with whom we have our commitments. We ask you to fulfil your commitments to the Spaniards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u82	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u83	Mr President, you have made some progress, I have made progress; and not only that, but you have given up our abstention and even announced it. Well, it has prevented me from having to extend this speech and I thank you, because this means that you have accepted, I understand that you have accepted the agreement for the complete repeal of labour reform, which is good news for all citizens, for Basque workers. In fact, I believe that here too we are to give good news whenever we can, of course, and also to offer solutions. When there is political will, it is seen to be possible. So let's do more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Married, I would ask you not to make any effort because I believe that the People's Party has already taken its face off a long time ago, especially by the leader they have chosen, who is the one, as Mr. Echenique said, whom they want to emulate, whom they want to imitate. He did it - taking off his face - when he said that raising the state of alarm and increasing the number of dead was something that had to be taken hostage, that when you go out on the street you can also hit a car. Mrs. Díaz Ayuso is the one you want to emulate. That the president of the community who is suffering the most from this pandemic - I would like to remind you that one third of the cases in Spain are in the Community of Madrid, as my colleague Rafa Simancas said - say this is improper, because basically what comes to say is that the Madridns get involved as they can. That is what the President of the Community of Madrid, her party partner, is doing, the one they want to emulate. Just a few hours ago, he encouraged the people of Madrid to go out on the street, and I'm going to ask you, if you don't want to cooperate, don't do it, but at least don't boycott the effort of 47 million Spaniards. [[Applauds]] He comes here to talk about freedom, the People's Party, the party of the Law gags! Is freedom for you to accuse and intimidate the families of ministers, for example? Is it freedom for you that from your seats you try to intimidate and threaten the Members who have come to this rostrum? Freedom for you is freedom to spread? [[Applauds]] Is that freedom for you? I would then tell Mr Sánchez at the end of his speech: you are more and more alone, Mr Sánchez. What I'm saying is, you're getting more and more alone, Mr. Married, well, by the hand, obviously, of Mr. VOX, which is what's left to you, the end. You only have VOX left and, in addition, listening to you, I assure you that the difference seems only of degree; the extreme right and the extreme right, so much mounts, mounts so much. You have said, because we have listened to you this week, that the decision not to move to phase 1 is politically motivated and that the Government, the Socialist Party and the United Nations We can do what we are demanding is to shut up, on charges like this? Well, look, no, I'm gonna answer. You know that it responds to scientific reasons, that the Community of Madrid is one of the most important cases, that its Community Government has not developed a plan to detect and follow possible cases of COVID and its contacts, that it is insufficient what has been done in primary care and is vital for early detection, that it must strengthen staff with new recruitments, and not fire them, as you announced you were going to do. I do not tell you, nor does the Socialist Group tell you, nor does the Minister of Health or the President of the Government tell you, the President of the College of Physicians, who says that there are closed health centres, that there is a lack of personnel and that there are more contagions; it is said by the Nursing Union, which ensures that the necessary conditions are not given for Madrid to move to phase 1. You have been accusing the Government of Spain of all the evils for weeks and when someone reminds you of the disaster of your management in Madrid, all you do is point out - also in this - to the Government of Spain to accuse us and, by the way, also to the spokespersons who say so to try to frighten us. They're clear! They're clear! [[Applauds]] Madrid does not move to phase 1 because your government in CAM has not done its job and, by the way, because you have established a unique area with the opposition of health professionals, doctors and trade unions. Do your job, because your mistakes we end up paying you all, they end up paying you the Madriders, all of us living in this community. I want to remind you of a few things, too. Mrs Ayuso's health advisor was dedicated to defending, in the middle of the pandemic, the privatization of public health. And this too we have to shut up? Do we also have to shut up for the sake of unity, as you come up here every Wednesday to this rostrum and insult us and call us criminals and call us murderers and threaten us from your seats? Look, Mrs. Ayuso has dedicated herself to coming late or leaving soon from the presidents' conferences where the measures to be taken were decided because she had to go take some pictures. They presented the document without signature to move to phase 1 because no one from the Government of Madrid dared to sign it and against the opinion of the director of Public Health, who preferred to resign rather than subscribe to this recklessness. The Government of the community is dedicated to encouraging people to break the social distance. Mrs Ayuso even boasts of, and I quote: Balboa's Nuñez is going to be a joke, and after saying these things she goes to her luxury stepping paid at bargain price for a..., well, for friends in this case. This is what you, Mr Casado, model, what you say you want for all of Spain, for us is a drift of irresponsibility and you will be responsible for its consequences, Mr Casado. I'm closing, Madam President. Mr. Rufián, make no mistake about adversaries. We have four years of progressive politics and you know it. Look, I don't like to talk about the negotiations because if they come to a good place, then great and we will have the agreements, but if they don't, why cry about the milk spilled with people with whom we have to understand ourselves throughout the legislature. I'll remind you of a couple of things. The first is that I told him that for the Socialist Group and for the government there was nothing more important than to carry out the extension of the state of alarm, because the state of alarm saves lives - I told Esquerra Republicana with these words - and that is why I asked you to vote yes, and the answer you gave me was that voting yes was impossible for Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, and the rest, Mr Rufián, are mathematics. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Lastra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u87	Following the recommendation of the Board of Spokespersons, I will respond from the seat, if I may, Madam President, to move four thoughts. The first is to connect with the feeling, I believe, humbly, of the whole of Spanish society, which looks at this new time with caution, with great prudence, but also with huge doses of hope and illusion. After ten weeks, in which we have had rates of daily contagion above 30%, with more than 27,000 compatriots who have died, unfortunately, but also seeing right now what the fate of the curates is, many more and more than the number of daily contagions we have, I think they act cautiously but also with huge doses of hope and illusion and I think that we cannot disappoint that expectation, we cannot disappoint it as public representatives, neither the Government nor its lords as representatives of the various parliamentary forces present here who, with their vote, will decide exactly how these last metres of the state of alarm are managed. The second reflection I want to share with you is that the state of alarm has proved effective, works, and that the commitment of the Government of Spain over these ten weeks has undoubtedly not had to violate any fundamental right beyond weighing some. Today, the Supreme Court, on the proposal of a complaint by an individual, has clearly stated that the right to public health and to life prevails with respect to freedom of movement or freedom of assembly. Therefore, what we have done has been to consider the defence of public health and life in relation to two other fundamental rights. But the Government's spirit is to raise the state of alarm as soon as possible, when it is safe enough to govern with ordinary instruments that new daily life in which we will be until we find either the vaccine or the therapeutic remedy. The third reflection I wanted to share with you is that the Spanish Government is keeping the parliamentary commitments in force. The Government programme with which this Executive was launched a few days ago, just over a hundred days ago, remains in force. In fact, the conservative opposition has done precisely to oppose and reproach that under the state of alarm from the Council of Ministers we begin to approve some transformative bills in positive order to win that future. Yesterday we adopted the preliminary draft climate change law, which seems to me to be fundamental to moving, especially at this moment in time, this intergenerational message of solidarity, that we are going to respond and bequeath a sustainable planet; or, for example, a few days ago when we adopted in the Council of Ministers - right now in parliamentary procedure - the preliminary draft law to modernise our educational framework, our educational system. With this, from the social, labour, economic, territorial point of view - ladies and gentlemen, also territorial - the Government of Spain has commitments that it maintains and that are in force and that unfortunately we have not been able to push through these ten weeks because, of course, all the efforts have had to be turned into an unexpected pandemic for the Government of Spain, for the whole of Spanish society and also for the world. Fourthly, I am very grateful, very grateful, because I know what political effort, political commitment means, to all the parliamentary forces that are going to vote in favour of extending this state of alarm. I thank you very much because I believe that you are attuned to the emotion you suffer and have many Spaniards of hope but also of caution against these last meters of the state of alarm and against the definitive defeat, let us hope, in this first wave of the COVID-19. To those political parties that are going to vote against the transfer of the regret of the Government of Spain, especially to the main opposition party, because in my opinion what it is doing is resigning from the main responsibility of a party that aspires to govern and governs in autonomous communities that have been the main focus of this pandemic, such as the Community of Madrid, such as in this case the People's Party. I simply have to transfer something that Mrs Lastra said to the spokesman for Citizens, who we have not really been, have been experts and also the health professionals of the Community of Madrid who are telling the Community of Madrid precisely that it is not prepared to move to phase 1. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. Acts in relation to the states of alarm, exception and site. Request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by Royal Decree 476/2020 of 27 March, 487/2020 of 10 April, 492/2020 of 24 April, and 514/2020 of 8 May. Voting on the proposals submitted by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm, under the terms of the agreement on its admission to procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 45 plus 301 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 1 telematics vote; against, 34 plus 223 telematics votes, 257; abstentions, 11 plus 77 telematics votes, 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u89	The proposals are rejected. Vote on the proposal submitted by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 45 plus 301 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 3 plus 11 telematics votes, 14; against, 30 plus 213 telematics votes, 243; abstentions, 12 plus 77 telematics votes, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u90	The proposal was rejected. Voting on the proposals put forward by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 45 plus 301 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 6 plus 24 telematics votes, 30; against, 36 plus 271 telematics votes, 307; abstentions, 3 plus 6 telematics votes, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u91	The proposals are rejected. Voting on the proposals put forward by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 46 plus 301 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 7 plus 17 telematics votes, 24; against, 38 plus 275 telematics votes, 313; abstentions, 1 plus 9 telematics votes, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u92	The proposals are rejected. Voting on the proposals put forward by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 46 plus 301 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 7 plus 17 telematics votes, 24; against, 38 plus 274 telematics votes, 312; abstentions, 1 plus 10 telematics votes, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u93	The proposals are rejected. Voting on the proposals submitted by the Republican Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 46 plus 301 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 7 plus 24 telematics votes, 31; against, 37 plus 272 telematics votes, 309; abstentions, 2 plus 5 telematics votes, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u94	The proposals are rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. the authorization of the extension of the state of alarm, which will be put to the vote in its own terms, can be voted on by telematic means. The vote on this item will take place, together with the other votes, at the end of all the items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u95	We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. He asked, first of all, of Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u96	Thank you, Madam President. He referred earlier to something similar to the wording of the question; he said that a notable one would be put in the management of the crisis. What I ask you is, looking into the eyes of the 27 000 or 28 000 families who have lost a loved one, the four million unemployed, the queues of people who are going to seek food from a parish or an NGO, the 50 000 infected health care workers because you have not given them a mask or even a test, looking into the eyes of those people would you tell them that your Government has managed this crisis well?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u97	Thank you, Mr. Casado. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Casado, it is not the first, I also believe that we have been asking this question for a few weeks now, to my person and to the Government. It is the first time, in any case, that you have voted against the extension of the state of alarm and that means, as I said earlier in the debate, that you have resigned from your main responsibility as an opposition party, which is a State responsibility. It is about saving lives and defending public health and you have resigned from that responsibility. And believe me if I tell you, Mr. Married, I'm deeply sorry. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. White Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u100	So sorry that after three extensions approved by this party, we were insulted; we didn't expect much. You come here, read what they write to you and answer absolutely nothing. It comes with your reports from the State Attorney's Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Remember that interview? Who is responsible for the Public Prosecutor's Office and the State Attorney's Office? Well, that's what the reporter said. The problem is that in the end it contrasts with reality, with the European countries, with what the great constitutionalists of this country say and, above all, with common sense, because Spain, with the worst confinement in the world, with the worst economic and unemployment figures in the eurozone and with the worst number of contagions for health care workers and deaths proportional to its population, cannot remain paralysed because the economy, if not, will cause damage, also to health, as the UN Panel has said, which already says - in that food bank - that they can cause more damage even than the virus itself. But you don't care, because for you to rule is a game of trilers. Have you heard what your partners say? Bildu's is coming out here saying she's assuming they're going to repeal the labor reform. The one from Esquerra pretends he's going to resume the game table. Today the European Union has already told you that it has to deepen reforms, I don't think it's very funny when you know that you are committed to repealing labour reform, or not, because you lie to everyone. You have not been very fortunate, you mess with private health, which you use; you mess with the homes which, like all vice presidents, you use. This is like the cartoonist's joke, which said the Sanchez government is like the aloe vera, the more they investigate it the more properties they find out. And they also mess with scientific reasons, but they don't give the names of the experts for whom they decide on our freedoms. They talk about the law gags, criticizing it, but they put a million sanctions. In short, Mr Sánchez, you have no direction, so your parliamentary loneliness is increasingly coinciding with the public outrage and, therefore, we ask you once again to take steps, even two months late, to protect the population, to isolate the infected and to leave the productive economy that sustains the welfare state, reactivating Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u101	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u102	So I understand, Mr. Casado, that the question you were asking me about the evaluation was rhetorical, because you came up with your little paper and told us that if the house, that if... Finally, Mr Casado, I understand that for you - and you can see that the body is asking for it, it is no longer just a matter of political decision or electoral strategy, the body is asking for it - it is very easy to find reasons and arguments to confront this government. But if you think about it, Mr. Married, and think for sure you can find many more arguments to unite than to confront. I told him at the last control session, in which, by the way, he asked me the same question he asks me today, after all these hours of debate we have had. It turns out they haven't been worth much. In any case, the unit saves lives, Your Honor, and can also save many businesses and jobs. What you have done today has been to resign from your responsibilities as an opposition party with State responsibility. Mr. Married, I'm going to tell you one thing, look, criticizing everything the government does is an insult, but not an insult to this government, it's an insult to intelligence. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA MARIA ORAMAS GONZÁLEZ-MORO, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN PRESENT A SPECIAL PLAN FOR CANARIES? [[File number 180/000137]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u103	Question by Mrs Ana María Oramas González-Moro, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, ladies and gentlemen, the coronavirus and the fear of contagion have led to the death of tourism throughout Europe. Right now we can't know if it's temporary or definitive. It seemed impossible but it happened. While in the Canary Islands we were locked up, the world we knew has been destroyed. Our way of life has disappeared and we have no other way. What awaits us this year is terrifying poverty. Hunger and despair threaten thousands of homes on my islands. The crisis is already between us and we already know that the price of confinement is going to be very expensive. But we're not all going to pay the same, and it's not going to be the same price for everyone. Mr President, think of the fear you would feel if the International Monetary Fund told you that Spain is going to lose 40% of its wealth and that unemployment is going to affect half the population. When they talk about figures like this, they are announcing a social catastrophe and the liquidation of the welfare state. Well, those are the figures we're talking about for the Canary Islands. No one has warned us of the danger of the virus, but we are warning you many and for a long time of the catastrophic situation that is going to occur on the islands. We are warning you that companies will be extinct, that workers will lose their jobs and that families will not have the resources to live. The disappearance of tourism is a phenomenon of mass extinction for the Canary Islands, an absolute failure of the economic model and a misfortune. Here in Madrid some think: Again the canaries with the tale of grants, the usual. But they're wrong. Just as Madrid looks at Brussels, the Canary Islands looks at Madrid; it is the chain of life. Spain needs the solidarity of the European Union to move forward and the Canary Islands needs the intervention and financial support of the State. Mr President, I ask you to step forward for the 2 million Spaniards who live in the Canary Islands, who are now distressed and who need an answer to a simple but vital question: will this government make a rescue plan for the Canary Islands?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs Oramas, and I would also like to go ahead with the Government's and my President's thanks for the support that you are going to give to the extension of the state of alarm, because I think it is fundamental. In the debate that we have held over these long hours, for the fifth time I have commented that the alarm decree in its design of 14 March has been an alarm decree that has benefited all territories and all citizens live where they live. Because, indeed, what we did was to respond homogeneously throughout the territory to the level of gravity that existed in the main outbreaks of the epidemic, such as, for example, the Madrid Community. Today we are seeing very good data, for example, in the Canary Islands as a result of such strict confinement that we have approved among all, and also thanks to their support over the last ten weeks. Now, indeed, we are entering another phase, which is the phase of descalation, the phase of transition to normality, and, consequently, that descalation is going to be, as it is, asymmetrical, gradual and coordinated with the various governments. I also said in my speech from the rostrum that different Canary Islands will move to phase 2. In short, what we are doing is to reactivate that economy, and also to reactivate what employment, occupation, can represent in such an important sector that it values this Government as it is the tourism sector. I must also say that we are also working at European level to see how, as soon as possible and with all the guarantees, we can respond to this demand for international tourism, especially European tourism, which can replenish our beaches and also our coasts. But for that it is very important to continue with the state of alarm until we can definitely move towards that new normality. In that sense, I think it is important to continue with the state of alarm, because that is what allows us to restrict mobility, which has been fundamental in this case for the islands. President Ángel Víctor Torres has said on many occasions that the Canary Islands are not only islands, but that confinement and isolation have twice benefited all citizens of the Canary Islands. Moreover, in the area of economic and social response, believe me that, of course, in the area of tourism, but also in the area of minimum living income and so on, this Government is committed to a maximum that it has governed since the beginning of the state of alarm: No one is going to stay behind, and that applies to the citizens, but also to the territories. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, the same speech from Spain to Brussels is made by the Canary Islands to the Government of Spain: solidarity, different policies, recovery of employment policies and, above all, major investments, and the 4 billion that are in the banks of the surplus of the Canary Islands administrations. We're going to be with you and the Canary Islands government to get the Canary Islands out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u109	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Cayetana ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE SEMINAR FIRST AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT PROTECTS THE RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/000145]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u110	Question addressed to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Cayetana Álvarez of Toledo Peralta-Ramos of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Mrs Calvo, do you condemn the slavery to Minister Ábalos and Vice-President Iglesias?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u112	Madam President, your honor has changed the question. I don't care, I'm gonna answer it. We live in a fully constitutional and democratic situation despite having decreed the state of alarm, the obvious proof is that you are there exercising your control legitimately and I here, in my duty to listen to and answer it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u113	Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: A question about freedoms and you do not condemn slavery? I get it, I get it because you can't condemn the scumbags and I can. You cannot condemn them, first of all, because your neighbor in the chair has encouraged, when not directly organized, those suffered by leaders of other political parties. From the slavery to Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría and his two-year-old son, Mr. Iglesias said: It is a democratic mechanism for those responsible for the crisis to feel a minimum of its consequences. That's democratic syrup. The Minister of Equality was more ingenious and said: The slave is not harassment, it is to ask the deputies to talk to us. A form of dialogue, wow, now with police armor. Yesterday, the vice president directly threatened Mrs Ayuso and Mr Abascal; dirty government thugs. Secondly, you cannot condemn the squabbles because your former chief of staff was nothing less than the rapporteur of the car who filed the harassment against Mrs Sáenz de Santamaría and, in your opinion, that deplorable episode was an ordinary mechanism of democratic participation, something like voting. Thirdly, you cannot condemn anything because your other neighbor, the now president of the government, even jailed the perpetrators of the slavery against the mayor of Murcia. [[Rumors]] Yes, Mr. Sanchez, don't laugh. On September 15, 2017, a tweet: All my support and solidarity for the UndergroundMu Platform. [[Rumors]] Finally, Mrs Calvo, which I can condemn and you can't, because I am not an accomplice to those who harass the Lords Abalos and Churches; you are. But there is a fourth reason for your nullity, and it is that you continue to encourage slavery, now from the government, and against all those citizens who, without harassing anyone, protest against their incompetence and their lies; citizens of all Spain and of all conditions: from Userra to Arganda, from Badajoz to Jaén. You stalk them, chase them, call them dicks, fairies and even 'cayetans', see what excess. You say yourself that they endanger what so much work has cost us others. It will not be to you precisely, because of your management all is said; what was that like? New York-Madrid-Tehran-Pekin, the new axis of evil. Today it is time to denounce his authoritarian impulse. With you, the hemeroteca is not a vindictive exercise of the past, it is a hidden agenda. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u114	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u115	Thank you, Madam President. You are very given to the body to body and to the casuistic and with that you much lower the level. His initial question was interesting: What happens to the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards at this time? I will tell you what is happening: there is a weighting of legal assets on what this Government has already been justified twice by the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court. There is no unlimited right in democracy, in dictatorships yes, but for one, for the dictator. In democracy, all freedoms have limits so that we can all exercise them. Do you know what happens to freedoms and rights and what you boast - by the way, who knows more right now is my colleague José Luis Ábalos - with what you do and what you provoke every afternoon, with those concentrations? You want me to tell you what you're doing? What they're doing is putting at risk what so much work has cost us others. You have the right and the freedom to get infected if you want, but what you cannot do in this country is put everyone else's freedom and security at risk in a health pandemic. That's what you were asking me. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHAT DECISIONS HAS ADOPTED HIS VICE-President ON THE FUTURE OF SPAIN IN THE COVID CRISIS? [[File number 180/000144]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u116	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, when you are asked about what has done wrong this government always answers the same: the blame is on the vulture funds, on José Luis Martínez Almeida or on the target of all his criticisms, Isabel Díaz Ayuso. The Spaniards know all their mantras and they also know that this virus is stopped among all of us, but Madrid has been stopped only by you. Whenever you talk about the People's Party you have to remember one thing: the decisions of the People's Party governments have saved thousands of lives, thousands of lives. Mr. Churches, believe me, I have you for a demanding person. In 2014, being a Euro MP, he asked the European Union to investigate the Rajoy government for its management during the Ebola crisis, I'm sure he remembers. There was an infected woman who was cured and the sacrifice of Excalibur. If by the death of a dog you asked the Government of Spain to investigate with the European Union, with the death of almost 28 000 people, what decisions have your vice-presidency made about the future of the Spaniards in the face of the crisis of COVID?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u118	Thank you, Mr. García Aegean. Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr García Aegean, the truth is that after listening to Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, you sound like a center. I don't mean to hurt you with this. In response specifically to your question, we have worked to build a social shield to protect Spanish citizens from the economic and social impact of this crisis, measures to protect workers and businesses, the self-employed, the tenants, families with mortgages. Yesterday it was announced that the number of scholarships will be increased, very soon we will pass a minimum vital income and yesterday the law of climate change was also passed. Certainly, some things we can do better, but you will agree with me that this Government has been able to put the general interest of all citizens ahead of particular interests. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u120	Thank you, Mr Vice-President of the Government. Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Iglesias, on the lines of what I was commenting on, of all those we are here, you are one of those who have surrounded the seat of a political party; you are one of those who has encouraged a vice president to slave and you are one of those who have prescribed democratic syrup to your opponents. There is a big difference between you and me: I condemn all dictatorships and all harassment, because I defend freedom, not like you. And I ask myself, and I ask you, why don't you organize the distribution of masks instead of the distribution of democratic syrup? It would be much more useful to everyone. It assumes a social shield while thousands of ERTEs are not paid and many workers have been without a euro in their homes for two months. The only social shield you're building is to protect your government, because as long as the job collapses in Spain, it shoots at Podemos. The self-employed pay their dues so that their Government spends 250 000 euros a day on advisers. What a Spaniard spends his whole life in his usual home is spent on just one day on finger charges. Mr. Churches, do you remember when you criticized the rotating doors? For you have replaced the rotating doors with automatic doors, which open for the members of Podemos. In The Financial Times you presented yourself as the Spanish Varoufakis. It seems to me very correct, because Varoufakis is a rich gentleman, minister, who ended up ruining a country, cutting pensions and social benefits. You're the most expensive vice president in history and the worst, the most expensive... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u122	Thank you, Mr. García Aegean. Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Mr García Eggea, you read your little cards well, but I think the parliamentary debate wins if we listen and respond. Your Honor, one can choose how to make opposition. I would have liked you, like the opposition in Portugal, to work with the Government in an emergency situation. It is legitimate for you to decide to oppose VOX and to decide to crash and even to use the Autonomous Communities to oppose the Government, even if some health officials of the Autonomous Communities resign you because you have the impression that you are politicizing data and protecting citizens, but there is something I believe is indecent, Your Honor, and it is to oppose scientists, health professionals and epidemiologists. There are many health professionals, Your Honor, who have been playing life and health and who are seeing that the mobilizations that you encourage along with the ultras to mock the state of alarm are putting at risk what the efforts of the Spaniards have achieved. Do whatever you want to oppose the government, criticize us whatever you want, but do not fail to respect the health workers, do not put you at risk, going hand in hand with the extreme right, with the mobilizations with which you pretend to mock the state of the weapon, the health of the people, not only because that is indecent, but because the health workers will not forgive you, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u124	Thank you, Mr. Second Vice President. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Mertxe AIZPURUA ARZALLUS, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMS THE Honourable Vice-President THIRD MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: HOW DOES THE MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS THINK TO AVOID THAT YOUTH IS NEW ONE OF THE COLLECTIVES MOST FILLED BY THE SOCIO-ECONOMIC CRISIS AS IN 2008? [[File number 180/000139]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u125	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u126	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, how are you going to prevent youth from once again being one of the groups most hit by the crisis, as it happened in 2008? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u128	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Our entire Government programme, as well as the measures we have been taking from the very beginning to respond to this crisis, is very focused on protecting the most vulnerable, on supporting the construction of a better future for our country and on ensuring that this time it is not the young people most affected by this exceptional situation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u129	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mrs. Aizpurua Arzallus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u130	The data shows how he paid for the exit from the 2008 crisis that generation that was the best prepared in history. The youth suffered unemployment, more precariousness, more temporaryity and lower wages, as they saw how the banks were given the money and how many politicians were fed their pockets with our money. The State was looking elsewhere, and the only alternative they were offered was to flood their neighborhoods and villages with gambling houses, that opium of the twenty-first century. Madam Vice-President, the young people who live in Euskal Herria and, in the same way, the rest of the state deserve respect, attention and support, because it is they and no one else who can build horizons of greater dignity with their push, their training and their vital and work projects. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary to repeal labour reform so that they do not have to live in the precariousness that temporality brings to them; to establish a minimum interprofessional wage worthy and in accordance with the reality of each territory; to provide also a quality public education with programmes of decent scholarships and rights that allow us to retain talent so that they do not have to seek out what is not offered to them here; to promote public policies of access to housing so that young people can emancipate themselves and direct their vital project beyond the reach of the vulture funds that overwhelm the real estate market, and also a control and progressive elimination of gambling houses. It is said that from this crisis we must learn to value the essential things and to discard, therefore, the indispensable ones, and I have no doubt that the betting houses are clearly of the second ones. Therefore, we ask you to focus your attention on youth, not to condemn it to a horizon without future or expectations. If there is a sector that can set up a new model of society, it is young people who cry out for their rights and are willing to defend them, and not the 'cayetanos' who cry out, golf stick at risk, for fear of losing their privileges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u132	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. The truth is that I share 100 percent of what you have pointed out about the importance of young people. They are our future; we have to bet on them and certainly protect them. That is what we have done with the various measures that have been taken, for example, to respond to the emergency caused by the COVID virus, measures aimed very directly at protecting employment, because unemployment is the main problem we have in this area, as well as precariousness. That is why we have been committed to making the ERTEs more flexible and more strongly supported. We have created special benefits for the most vulnerable groups, in particular for temporary contract workers, who in many cases, as you rightly point out, are young people. We have established a number of protection networks to try to protect their right to housing and their right to access essential services. I believe that from the very beginning our sensitivity has been clear even in this crisis situation. Looking to the future, as I told you, our government program is also very clear in this regard: building a better future for our children. We are talking about ensuring quality education. These very days we are approving a new scholarship program that simply announces our commitment to quality public education for all our young people. We're talking about digital training. We are talking about vocational training. We are talking about developing the ecological transition, digitisation, R & D and a future that will enable them to develop their full potential. If at this time we have to make an extraordinary effort that will generate a huge additional public debt and that, in short, can be a burden for future generations, what less to think of also leaving them a better world, for example, with the climate change law that we have adopted this week. The Government's commitment is clear and I look forward to its support so that we can develop this ambitious youth programme. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u133	Thank you very much, Madam Third Vice-President of the Government. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN ESPINOSE OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE THIRD AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DOES YOU THINK THIS TIME IS A GOOD IDEA OF THE INCREASE OF THE IMPOSITIVE CHARGE ON CITIZENSHIP? [[File number 180/000150]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u134	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance. Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, a few weeks ago the goal was to avoid the collapse of the economy and to sustain the productive tissue during hibernation with preventive measures. It was basically about ensuring that there was liquidity and employment and that our chances of recovery were not undermined. Since VOX we have offered support and ideas to your Government and have even had the unanimous practice of this House at the beginning of this crisis to take urgent measures, but of all possible measures to act you have chosen precisely the slowest and most inefficient ones, and today your failure is suffered by millions of Spaniards. They have failed the companies, because two months later liquidity remains unaltered and more than 130 000 companies have already broken down. They have failed the self-employed, 600 000 self-employed expect the ICO's or their bank's response to receive their loan, which, by the way, is not an aid, but a mere patch, a debt they assume for the future. And they have failed the workers, because 6 million people have seen their jobs extinguished or suspended, and for hundreds of thousands of them the support linked to the ERTE has not arrived or will reach until mid-June. In these circumstances, Minister, do you think this is a good time to increase the tax burden on the Spaniards?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u136	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u137	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Espinosa, I listen to you and I do not know which country you want to paint for the future; I imagine that these are more desires, because of course they are not realities. If you have seen the unemployment figures we have seen last month, it is precisely what this government has done that is to avoid a bleed in the dismissal of workers through the ERTE. If you have heard the figure regarding the number of companies - SMEs and self-employed - that are already benefiting from ICO credits, which are more than 250 000, it will be because for these companies it is necessary and useful that liquidity. And you can also hear the measures that have been put in place with regard to the exemption of social security contributions from certain collectives or the payment of benefits to self-employed persons. Don't you see that reality, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros? You only always see this Spain in black and white, which is the one you want to build. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u138	Thank you, Minister of Finance. Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u139	Minister, you certainly live in a parallel world, the truth. People are suffocated, minister, suffocated, and when people are suffocated they can't ask for even more tax pressure. There is no need to go to great economists, such as Arthur Laffer, to know that increased fiscal pressure lowers collection capacity. No need, just go to the Spanish chorus: where there is no, you can't get out, and the Spaniards don't have it today. There are queues in unemployment, there are queues of hunger, there are Spaniards who are having a really bad time, and you come to tell me here that the government has achieved an economic miracle in these two months. Look, minister, this is the worst time to raise taxes. If you are not able to improve the lives of the Spaniards, do not bother those who are at least trying to do so little by little and in their own way, do not bother the companies that are trying to do their best to get out of this crisis, do not bother the self-employed, who continue to pay their contributions while you do not allow them to work, do not bother the workers who are suffering dismissals and ERTE massively, do not bother, in short, Minister, the Spaniards who on their own and against this government are trying to get ahead. If you are not able to help, do not bother, withdraw, pay the payroll and resign.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u140	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u141	Mr Espinosa, you have a maximum, you say where the money is best is in the taxpayer's pocket. There are people who during this pandemic have had to be treated in health care. Under that maxim, what would it have meant, Mr Espinosa? Save as much as you can? Whoever had money would have gone to private medicine and whoever didn't have it wouldn't have received any kind of attention? Does the pandemic carry it forward? When you talk about this country being a fiscal hell, what do you think of Germany then? What do you think of France? What do you think of neighbouring countries if we are 7 points below in relation to GDP under fiscal pressure? So for you Europe also implies hell - or I don't know very well how to say it already - in those terms. In short, Your Honor, you question all the constitutional principles and, in your view, there must be no rule of law; that everyone here should seek life, that the one who has can find a good education, can find a good doctor or can have social services, and people who do not have those means, there they are, that they should struggle with solidarity or that they should struggle in the way they do. Their model of society and my model are completely different, but as far as I know, this government has only two taxes in this House, the digital tax and the financial transaction tax. Are you going to vote in favour of those two taxes? Or when you're talking about those poor people who have to pay taxes you're talking about big digital multinationals? Are you referring to those who make millionaire transactions to try to make money with those operations? Because those are the two tax figures. Support the fight against tax fraud, support... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u142	Thank you, Minister of Finance. - OF THE DEVELOPED MOUNTAIN MONTSERRAT BASSA COLL, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: HOW IS THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT JUSTIFYING THE GOVERNMENT OF CONDITIONS TO AGENTS OF THE FORCES AND SAFETY BODIES OF THE STATE PARTICIPATING IN THE COVERNMENT? [[File number 180/00140]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u143	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Montserrat Bassa Coll from the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u144	Good morning. The images of October 1, 2017 of a police force spreading blows to people of all ages and conditions who were peacefully trying to vote went through the international press. They were policemen who had been fired from their places of origin with war songs, with 'a for them', a 'a for them' that was one for us, to Catalans and Catalans who, in demand of a democratic right, made an exercise of massive and peaceful civil disobedience, of which we feel tremendously proud. With their decorations they show that, just as we are proud of our pacifism, you are proud of your violence. That's why I ask you what the justification is for decorating agents who beat us on October 1st.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Bassa. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Bassa, let me say that today that we are debating in the plenary of Congress the extension of the state of alarm has a memory and thank the whole of the forces and bodies of the State that are controlling mobility, that are controlling the supply of essential goods, that are preventing crime and that are guaranteeing humanitarian services to those who cannot avail themselves. I'm sure they'll have an acknowledgment in the future. Secondly, I refer to the fact that there has been no general record of decorations, both for police merit and for the merit of the Civil Guard, for facts such as the operation you indicate. The merits or what has been granted are personal, to a person and for a specific fact, and surely they have been adequate. However, you are referring to facts more than two years ago, to another legislature, to another Government, to another ministerial team. What do you think if we look at the present in the face of the future? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u147	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Bassa Coll.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u148	Mr Marlaska, in fact, the decorations have been awarded right now. Mr. Marlaska, if you honor cops for using violence, you're legitimizing a very undemocratic police. They are encouraging the dangerous fascist drift that we are seeing in the police, and also protected by a law that has not yet been repealed. With decorations like these it is perfectly understood that Billy the Child died with all his medals on. You give decorations paid with public money, which we will pay while the ill-treated cops live, and, for greater humiliation, also with the money of the Catalans that we receive the sticks. But the big problem is that you are once again paving the ideological path to VOX, the whole goes against the independenceists, the 'to get them', the lies about the violence in Catalonia, and you are clearing it much more while the Democrats are in jail and you decorate violent and fascists in uniform. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u149	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Bassa, one of the principles of that rule of law, and I tell you with all my affection, is the presumption of innocence. I think those generalizations you make are dangerous. But I'm going to another debate. We have absolutely democratic security forces and bodies, which guarantee the freedom and security of all citizens, who, at this difficult time, as I have said, are ensuring that mobility is on its right terms so that the disease does not spread. They think that, by voting today - of course, they do not exercise that right - they might have to stop controlling that mobility, which is so important and relevant. Obviously, humanitarian services would continue to do so. Look, I will remind you of something that you signed on 2 January this year: dialogue, agreement and negotiation with a progressive government, such as the one formed by the Socialist Party and the United Podemos, aimed primarily at creating an area of freedom and social justice. And there's... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u151	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL WOMAN GEORGINA TRIAS GIL, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: HOW ARE YOU GOING TO GUARANTEE THE EQUALITY OF ALL SPAIN IN EDUCATIONAL MATTERS? [[File number 180/000149]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u152	Question addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mrs Georgina Trias Gil, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u153	Minister, how are you going to ensure the equality of all Spaniards in education, that all Spaniards have equal access to education and equity between the different autonomous communities?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Trias. Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u155	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Trias, equality between Spaniards in education is perfectly guaranteed by our Constitution and by all the laws that have been emanating from it over more than forty years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u156	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Trias Gil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u157	Madam Minister, the serious situation we are experiencing accentuates the inequality that already existed before the pandemic, evident in the tests of access to university, in the unequal salaries of teachers, in the impossibility of studying in Spanish in some autonomous communities, in the discrimination of educational projects not related to their ideology and in the inequality of opportunities for students of special education. The situation is now aggravated by the poor management of his Government. We see the announcement of pilgrim measures that accentuate inequality and territorial comparative aggravation: seven autonomous communities eliminate the limit of approved ones to promote and holder and seven maintain the requirement; seventeen different autonomous norms during this crisis to decide, on their own, how Spanish students finish the course; in four autonomous communities the concerted one stays out of the distribution of gels and masks; with the state plan to return to the classrooms of children aged 0 to 6 years, the majority of the autonomous communities disagree, and their response is that the state plan does not force and that each region does what it wants to do. We need objective measures with the right health conditions, allowing Spanish students to be treated equally throughout Spain, with clear slogans and guidelines. Or is it that the only security your Government can give is to abuse our freedom and violate fundamental rights through the extension of the state of alarm? It has the entire educational community disoriented. The boat's drifting. It's a rescue who can without a captain. It is more concerned that this demolishing Lomloe - an ideological law that imposes a gender perspective and that directly violates the freedom of parents to educate, to choose the education they want for their children - is adopted than to give a solution to the educational community at this time of crisis. And meanwhile, certain autonomous presidents challenge the unity of Spain with its independent delusions. He resists to take the helm of the ship, but the storm does not blow. Please stop improvising, seek prestigious professionals out of your office, competent in education and health, and guarantee... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Trias Gil. Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u159	You are deeply and dramatically mistaken, Mrs. Trias. You don't know the education system well. The Spanish educational system is unique; it has a unique structure - I repeat, unique - for more than thirty years. It has seventeen developments, indeed, in each of the autonomous communities, according to our autonomous state, according to the 1978 Constitution, but it has a unique structure that does not even have the United Kingdom or Germany. And it also has unique titles that are valid and valid for the whole State, and it has autonomously managed State teaching bodies, and it has territorial cooperation programmes, and it has unique coordination and cooperation structures, such as sectoral conferences or general commissions. It's a commendable system, Mrs. Trias, but I'll tell you more. Do you not think that in the scholarships we have just made, in which investment is made, the largest investment by the State in scholarships in a decade is reflected? Does it not seem to you that the scholarships are precisely those that will provide the necessary equality for all students to guarantee their right to study, their right to education beyond their income? You do not want Lomloe, you do not want, because, in fact, the current Lomce makes your privileges remain and the Lomloe seeks equality in the access of all students, but with respect to the difference. You are not concerned about equality, you are not concerned about compliance with the principle of equality; you are concerned about uniformity, the uniformity of all, which does not respect difference, which does not respect diversity. The school we are looking for is a school that makes a personalized education, that respects the diversity of each student and makes it grow the maximum - and that is why it is equitable - with the highest excellence, seeking the optimization of its results. That's the school we're looking for, Mrs. Trias, and whenever we want to talk effectively... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u160	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED LAURA BORRÀS CASTANYER, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT'S COMMITMENT TO THE IMMEDIATE PAYMENT FROM THE ERT? [[File number 180/000138]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u161	Question to the Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mrs Borràs Castanyer, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u162	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, the state of alarm paralyzed the activity of hundreds of thousands of companies from today to tomorrow. Three and a half million workers had to benefit from an ERTE. No one was prepared for this, but companies and workers stopped to stop the spread of the contagions, managers and advisers did the duties and the State has not fulfilled them. We are on 20 May and most of those affected by ERTE processed two months ago have not yet charged. In the century of telematics and speed, the bureaucracy continues to strain the administration. Looks like we're in perpetuality. You'll be back tomorrow. When will the Government make these payments effective?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. Minister of Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. First of all, I would like to welcome and thank your political party for always accompanying the Government by voting in favour of a tool that has been very effective in this country for the first time, such as the ERTE. Secondly, with regard to your question, please note that the commitment of the Government of Spain to the payment of ERTs is such that for the first time in our country we have advanced the payment one week, on 3 April and 2 May. It is the first time, because you know perfectly well that SEPE pays per month expired, on the 10th of each month. On the other hand, it also knows - I am well aware - that in May benefits are being paid on a daily basis through an agreement we have signed with all financial institutions, also in Catalonia. If you want, then we'll provide you with data. You will be surprised how the Catalan bank is paying these benefits on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u165	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Borràs Castanyer.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u166	Minister, you know perfectly well that in Spain wages are low and that there are many families living a day. According to the latest INE survey, 55% of the population had difficulty reaching the end of the month, and that was before the ERTE. The situation is now unsustainable, and the excuse cannot be - as has also been given - the saturation of the Administration and that 'burrocracy', let me say so. The delay of more than two months in payment is not admissible, and if there is no income there should be no payments. President Torra, on 10 April, already asked why those affected by ERTE did not charge in March, and to those affected in March they are now adding April and May, and it is not opportune to assume the competences of others and not to exercise their own properly. 10 days ago they said: There are few ERTs that are not being paid anymore. But we have now been told that the government will delay the payment of the ERTE until 10 June for lack of liquidity. According to the latest data we have - and the subject of data, if you like, we talk about it another day - almost 100 000 dossiers had been registered in Catalonia on Monday alone and there are already more than 100 000 people - 15% - to which they have not yet been paid. Do you have to wait until June 10th? Put the means and give answers to many people: to Mary, who has an eight-year-old daughter and a husband with ERTE; to Mercè, whose husband on March 16 has not yet charged; to Claudia, in Palafrugell, who has a shoe shop and a husband with a mileurist salary. Stop buying tanks or subsidizing companies with billion-dollar profits and respond to people who are really having a hard time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs Borràs. Minister of Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u168	Mrs Borràs, I think you're a serious person and of course you don't give data that have nothing to do with reality. I'm going to give you even yours, the ones at your Treball office, that don't settle for what you said here. I'm telling you with data. Look, work is being done on the labour authorities, also yours - the Catalan one - with estimates. I'm going to give you your estimates, so you see they don't match what you just said, and then I'm going to give you the mechanized data from the Public Employment Service, which I think is what interests you and all of Spain. And I don't know where he gets that they're going to pay on June 10th, because I'm telling him it's not true; I'm taking this opportunity to tell him. Look, estimates from the Catalan authority: on April 26 you were telling us that you had 694 284 workers affected - estimates -, on day 29 you were saying that you were 699 000, but, look, on May 9 you were telling us that you were 644 963. Mrs Borràs, with mechanized data, SEPE paid nothing more and nothing less than 5,197,451 benefits, 3,3 million ERTE in April. In Catalonia, Mrs Borràs, 797 183; in ERTE, 570 000. I'll tell you the Spanish payroll of the ERTE of April: 4512 million plus Social Security; and I'll tell you the Catalan payroll: exactly 735 million plus Social Security, 1027 million euros. Mrs. Borràs, what you're saying is not true. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u169	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF NAVARRO LÓPEZ PENDOR, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: DOES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH CONSISTING A SYMPLOYMENT FOR HEALTHERS HAVE TO DO BATS AND CASERAL MASKS? [[File number 180/000148]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u170	Questions to the Minister for Health. Question by Mr Pedro Navarro López, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u171	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you've bought fake tests, defective masks and breathers that don't work in our ICUs. For months, he has been giving bandages and changing his mind, generating mistrust and a huge lack of transparency. He didn't listen to the WHO in January. He told us in February that we had enough protective equipment for our health care providers, while they were forced to make their own equipment with garbage bags because their Government was unable to protect them. He has made many mistakes, but no doubt this is the most serious. You are the Minister of Health and you have abandoned the health care workers and, despite that, you are still sitting there as a single command. Their obligation is to generate confidence, to transmit credibility and to solve problems, not to create them, but at least not to disrespect them, as the socialist health adviser of the Autonomous Community of Aragon has done and as her ministry has recently done, saying that they are contagious at home. She was unable, like you, to manage the crisis; she has been unable, like you, to protect them; she has been unable to stand by her side. What I'm asking you is if you also think it's an incentive for our health care providers to get dressed with garbage bags. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u172	Thank you, Mr. Navarro. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, neither this minister nor the government to which I am a party is dedicated to assessing statements or creating problems. We are dedicated to cooperating with the Autonomous Communities and solving problems. The first thing I want to do, given this preliminary clarification, is to show all the recognition of the Government and my own to the group of health professionals, who are the real spearhead in this fight that we have against the biggest pandemic in a hundred years; let us not forget: the biggest pandemic in a hundred years. To all of them goes our appreciation and appreciation for the exemplary work they are doing. Naturally, I would like to express our condolences to all those who have lost their lives in this endeavour and send our full encouragement to all those who have suffered or suffer from the disease. From the outset, it has been a priority of this Government to strengthen the purchasing mechanisms of the autonomous communities to provide this group with all the personal protective equipment required for their work, by purchasing material where it was available, with the maximum possible guarantees, and by activating the national production of these same products. Fortunately, today we have a regular flow of these products, but we continue to maintain as the highest priority, I insist, to support the autonomous communities in their obligation and in their effort to provide this collective with everything it needs. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Navarro López.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Illa, you have the sad record of being the country's health minister with the most infected health care workers in the world: 50,000 of our health care workers; of them, 76 are already dead. Twenty per cent of people infected in this country are in health care, when the rate in Italy is 10 per cent. Why do you think the Socialist Health Adviser of the Government of Aragon has resigned? Look in the mirror, look in the mirror, Mr. Illa. His statements have only been the drop that has filled the glass of the patience of the sanitary, tired of his Government not paying attention to them, while they see how other governments, such as the autonomous of Madrid, bring up to eleven planes of sanitary material. By the way, my autonomous community, Aragon, is the third with the highest mortality rate per inhabitant. The first is Castile-La Mancha, the second is Extremadura and the third is Aragon, the three ruled, obviously, by the Socialist Party, and none of the three will have seen a spectacle as regrettable as the one given this weekend by Mr Simancas. Socialist management in Aragon, Minister, is a summary of yours, a perfect summary of yours: they are only right when they rectify. Do the same to yourself, rectify and, as your partner, leave. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u176	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u177	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I have a lot of data that I could tell you - I am sure you already know them - of the various buying incidents that have occurred in the various Autonomous Communities, other European countries, other Western countries or other countries of the rest of the world, but there is no need. I have told you at the beginning that my commitment is to combat the disease, to work together, to work together, to strengthen the purchasing mechanisms of the autonomous communities. Do you know what mirror I look at myself in? I look at myself in the mirror of Spanish citizens and health professionals; some, fulfilling the health recommendations that we have issued by the health authorities of the Government of Spain and the autonomous communities, and others, with exemplary fulfillment of their vocation to serve society as a whole. Do you know which mirror you should look in? In the case of Portugal, in the case of Portugal's opposition, which, instead of pointing out problems, helps to solve them. Let's see if thinking and looking at Portugal you apply the story. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MACARENA OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH: IS IT RIGHT THAT SPAIN HAS SO MANY DEAD BY COVID WHY IN SPAIN IS MADRID? [[File number 180/00151]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u178	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u179	Thank you, President. Minister, is it true that Spain has so many deaths from COVID because Madrid is in Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u181	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Spain has an incidence rate similar to that of those countries with which we can and should compare, those countries with the most trafficking in persons, such as the United States, France, the United Kingdom and Italy. In addition, Spain suffers these consequences because, Your Honor, we face the largest pandemic in a hundred years, I repeat, the largest pandemic in a hundred years. That is what explains what is happening throughout our country. Madrid and Barcelona have certain characteristics due to population density and because they are very important transport nodes, which has caused them to suffer in a special way the consequences of this pandemic. You know what worked really well? The state of alarm, the one we discussed a short time ago. This has worked very well, because we have moved from contagion rates of 35% to 0.5% in recent days. We have confined the population, which is what everyone has done as well and which is what international agencies have recommended, and this has produced results. Now we are at a stage that you know perfectly well that it is very complex and in which it would be necessary for us all to collaborate, a phase of transition to a new normality. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u182	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Olona Choclán.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u183	Thank you, President. Minister, I will tell you a chronology that if it is not prevarication, it has all the appearance and smells of prevarication. For the second consecutive week, the Community of Madrid has justified and requested to move to phase 1. At 7:00 p.m. last Friday, you and Mr. Fernando Simón announced at a press conference that Madrid was staying in phase 0. At 8.50 p.m. on the same day, Mrs Díaz Ayuso, President of the Madrid Community, announced that, in the absence of any explanation, she would request a reasoned report from the Government. At 9:57 p.m., her Director General of Public Health signed a brief report on the no to Madrid. The next day, at 12:15 p.m., you conveniently filter out the above-mentioned report to a media outlet and 10 minutes later send it in writing to the Health Council. Is that loyalty, Minister? Is that the respect that the people of Madrid deserve for you? Six simple questions have been asked by the President of the Community of Madrid to you and to the President of the Government, six questions which have not been answered to date. Who is the team that decides that Madrid will go through phase? Why wasn't there a report last week and this one is? Where can the reports of the other autonomous communities be seen? Why does a media know the report before us? Why are they giving an image of Madrid's health so unfair, as if it were a third worldist? Can't you see they're ruining us, Minister? Don't you see? I demand that you be accountable to this House today by asking me those six very simple questions that have not yet been answered. The reality, Minister, is that you have turned the people of Madrid into a kidnapped people, and you have done so for political reasons, rather than health reasons. They keep us under arrest and they keep those alleged experts behind whom they hide. Minister, did your Social Communist government really think that VOX was going to become an accomplice to that strategy of destroying Madrid? That's why they already have Mr. Sanchez's infiltrator, Mr. Aguado. Do you know what VOX has done to its twelve deputies in the Madrid Assembly? Close ranks around the people of Madrid, and I can assure you that they will have us in front of you, Minister. So point out our names on that target that you have placed on the chest of the President of the Community of Madrid because we are not going to abandon the people of Madrid. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u185	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, progress is being made on the basis of well-known criteria, agreed, by the way, with the Autonomous Communities, which are valued by the technicians of the Ministry of Health and also by the public health professionals of each Autonomous Community. Progressing in phase or not progressing in phase does not mean an assessment or a review of the good or bad work of an autonomous community. All the Autonomous Communities - I have said it repeatedly and I repeat it here following your question are doing a magnificent job, also the Autonomous Community of Madrid, a magnificent work of fighting, of fighting the COVID-19. Progressing or not progressing in phase does not mean that good or bad work is done, it means that, in the opinion of the experts, the necessary conditions are not given to be able to do so with guarantees and with certainty. Look, Your Honor, the de-escalation phase is a very complex phase and every step we take is going to be a safe step. We will continue to act with caution. The people of Madrid also have at their side the Government of Spain, and not only the people of Madrid, all Spain has at their side the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u186	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED BAL FRANÇAIS, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH: HOW DOES THE MANAGEMENT OF THE HEALTH CRISIS CAUSED BY COVID-19 DEVELOPMENT TO THE MOMENT BY THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/000141]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u187	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u188	Minister, how do you assess the government's management of the health crisis in relation to the COVID-19 epidemic?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u189	Thank you, Mr. Bal. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u190	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, as your honor will understand perfectly, rather than thinking about assessments of the work we do, we are focused on continuing to fight this epidemic. On the other hand, the President of the Government has already announced that a committee of study and evaluation would be set up, and it would be very pretentious for me to now enter into a field that will belong to this House and to society as a whole. Yes, I can tell you some things we're doing. First, try to lead us humbly, recognizing that we don't know all about this virus. Secondly, with a lot of self-requirement, try to improve day by day what we do. Thirdly, we always rely on science, on what the experts provide us; the epidemiologists, but also the group of experts in the world of health. Fourthly, with co-governance criteria, work together with the autonomous communities, with their health services and with their public health services. And always - fifthly - follow the recommendations of the international bodies, the WHO and the European Centre for Disease Prevention, and with great caution. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u191	Thank you, Minister. Mr. French Ball.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u192	Minister, you have to hurry. It turns out that now you take out chest because it establishes controls at airports, controls regarding the entry of people into Spain. It does so now, when we have had two months of pandemic, rather than at first, when restrictions on passenger traffic already existed. Do you remember those instructions given by the Ministry of Health, which said that those who returned to Spain, if asymptomatic, could make a normal life? Now you establish forced quarantines with respect to those entering Spain. They are sending the message that coming to Spain is dangerous, which is a race of obstacles. You are putting clubs on the wheels to revitalize tourism, which accounts for 14% of the gross domestic product, when this measure is not being adopted by the countries of our environment. I should have adopted her sooner. And, for the sake of evil, France, to the reciprocal, imposes these same conditions on the Spaniards who want to go to France. With regard to masks, we have asked them as active and passive. It turns out that the masks were not effective, then they were effective and from tomorrow they are mandatory; some are worth it, some are not worth it and the Spaniards do not even know what mask we have to use. I've told you before. Indeed, it is enough for you to reject a proposal to be sure that you will then rectify and accept it. These manifestations of disinformation to the population by the ministry, do you simply call them clumsy or did they bet because we didn't have the market stocked? I'm asking you the same thing about diagnostic tests. Other countries are making extensive maps of the virus for this asymmetric descalation. Do we have enough tests, or because we don't have them, we can't do those tests? What about the seroprevalence tests? We don't have a vaccine, we have a very low immunity, and you know we're out of the state of alarm. Do you have a plan for when the rebound arrives? Is it, for example, like other countries in our environment, the rearmament of vaccines with regard to diseases that are aggravated by the coronavirus? Do you already know where to buy masks or respirators that work, whether on the domestic market or on the international market? Espabile, Mr. Illa, we need you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u193	Thank you, Mr. Bal. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u194	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, we are in the phase of transition to the new normality, popularly known as descalation, and we are adapting the measures and we are making decisions according to the stage at which we are in, which is a very complex stage, without instruction manual and which we approach with great caution. That is why we have indeed taken the measure of demanding a quarantine of fourteen days for those who come to our country, to be consistent with the mobility limitations that govern Spanish citizens and, moreover, to protect the public health of those who live here and those who want to come to visit us, fully aware of the importance of tourism, an economic sector that we have very much in mind. We have also made decisions on masks. Today, an order is published in the Official Gazette of the State consistent with the stage of descalation in which we are in. With greater mobility, greater freedom - also in line with what other countries are doing - we felt that these measures needed to be taken. We are not disappointed to say that we listen to the autonomous communities, the experts and the political groups on a permanent basis, and whenever they make proposals that make sense and adapt to the criteria of our experts, we will continue to adopt them within the framework of the co-governance mechanisms that we have put in place to govern this stage of descalation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u195	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA JOSUNE GOROSPE ELEZCANO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHEN DOES THE GOVERNMENT PROVIDED TO RECOGNIZE INFECIOUS EMERGENCY AND DISEASE AS SPECIAL HEALTH? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000142]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u196	Question by Mrs Josune Gorospe Elezcano from the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u197	Thank you, President. Minister, good afternoon. This morning President Sánchez referred in his speech to a committee which is examining the health system and said that what he is going to do is to propose the adjustments that, if necessary, should be made. We would also like you to have it clear - as clear as we have it - that adjusting is not in any case recasting, that adjusting is proposing improvements to a system that is working well, that at a time of very high tension has had moments of collapse, it is falling back, but it has worked well. And we must continue to improve, and improve until we reach excellence, requires research into vaccines, treatments; investment in technology, infrastructure and, above all, human resources. In the current situation, we see that viruses have come to stay and that the consequences not only affect health, but also the living conditions of people and the economy. Therefore, the contemporary Maginot line is a good health system where human resources are very good. You know that our political position in this Congress in the health field goes in two ways: one, to defend our competitive framework with roundness, and two, to make constructive proposals and proposals in your competitive framework as well. Last week we specifically made him one in the field of human resources training and asked him to include the specialties of Emergencies and Infectious Diseases in the field of state MIR training and also the specialty of Emergencies in the decree of specialties of Nursing. We believe that these are proposals that have already been put forward here more than once, that in Europe they are recognised, also in the United States, also in Canada; that there are more than one hundred infectious disease services, emergencies in all hospitals and in many centres, and it makes no sense that they remain unrecognized. That is why we ask him when he intends to make progress in this area.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u198	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u199	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, you know him because we have had the opportunity to discuss him in the Committee on Health and on many occasions. I have said and maintain that the institutional framework that we have in our country is a strength in terms of the National Health System and that the autonomous communities are doing a great job, I insist. I have qualified him at all times and I want to re-qualify him here as a fortress, so it is about strengthening us among all, not changing things as they are going. With regard to the question that you ask me to recognize the specialties of emergency and infectious diseases, there are works under way in the Ministry of Health, specifically there is an institutional committee within the Human Resources Commission of the National Health System that is promoting the improvement of specialized health training. This institutional committee, for technical purposes, has benefited from the recommendations of the national commissions, the National Council of Specialities in Health Sciences, as well as the recommendations of scientific societies, professional associations and other entities of interest. A real decree is currently being prepared with the aim of regulating the common training of the various specialties, the specific training areas and also the procedure for creating new specialties. The last meeting of this institutional commission was held on 4 March. All this has been done in common agreement with the Autonomous Communities, as is usual in this type of work. For the obvious reasons you know, after March 4th we have concentrated all the energies - all of us, and the autonomous communities - in the fight against the epidemic. The planned timetable has therefore been changed; the forecast is that this royal decree will be adopted in the last quarter of this year. Indeed, this historic demand for which you are interested, endorsed by scientific societies with the support of this House, of many political groups, which, in our view, meets all the requirements, once this royal decree is passed, can, by the procedure that is established, be recognized. I therefore hope that this will be resolved this year, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u200	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Gorospe Lezcano.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u201	Indeed, it has been treated a lot of times, but it arrives at the door of the BOE and does not pass through the BOE. We want to see him at the BOE. That's what we're asking, because an addition, a new generational relief has to be given in those conditions and as long as...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u202	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u203	We would probably have seen him by now if we hadn't met this pandemic. In any case, it has my commitment to work hard to ensure that this comes to light as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u204	Thank you, Minister. - OF MR GUILLERMO MARISCAL ANAYA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF CONSUMER: IS THE MINISTER REAFFIRMED IN HIS Strict Accusations AGAINST THE SPANISH TOURIST SECTOR? [[File number 180/000152]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u205	Question to the Minister for Consumer Affairs. Question by Mr Guillermo Mariscal Anaya, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, last week you said that Spain has specialized in low-value-added sectors, hospitality and tourism. I would remind you that these are sectors that account for more than 12% of our economy, which employ 2.6 million people and that in the case of the Canary Islands it is one third of its entire economy. You do not offend this House with these statements, you offend the professionals who with effort and professionalism have managed to lead Spain to be the world's second-largest tourist power. More than 83 million tourists visited us last year alone. Does this figure have no value to you, Minister? Is it your occurrence, is this latest occurrence, is it ignorance or is it a new method of imposition that you are posing? Or is it both? Or is it going to take advantage of this crisis to change the economic model? Or is that your pretension that we all work for you, Mr. Garzón? It will always face us if that is the approach because freedom and that struggle for us is inexhaustible. Do you realize the seriousness of what you said? Do you realize what you said about the tourism sector? Are you aware of the seriousness of your statements? You, who are a tourist of the ideal, do you reaffirm yourself in your last statements? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u207	Thank you, Mr. Mariscal. Mr Minister for Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u208	Mr Mariscal, the tourism sector is very important to the Spanish economy, accounting for 12% of gross domestic product. Unfortunately, it is suffering the economic impact of this crisis and that is why this Government has adopted a number of extraordinary measures, including the tourism ERTE, the ICO lines and, ultimately, we are making the need for virtue. We are modernising, professionalizing and raising the added value of the sector at such difficult times as this. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u209	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Marshal Anaya.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u210	Minister, there are alternatives and the Community partners are adopting coordinated solutions. But not here, in Spain we go free, late and free. Now the quarantine. Has the government considered the mistrust that this quarantine generates in visitors and tourists? Who of those 84 million who visited us last year intends to spend fifteen days in a locked room? Your Government's mission in the field of tourism would be to increase, for example, tourist spending or to improve the profitability and sustainability of destinations or to extend ERTE until December, and even to pay for it, Minister. He recently said that the Spanish economy has to be modernised, modernised, the Spanish economy has to be modernised, and you say that with thirty-four years still in its pocket the card of the Communist Party. It overcomes the contradictions that one can ride, Your Honor. I remind you that there are people who, unfortunately, depend on your decisions and also on your statements. Minister Ribera was given for the automotive sector, you were given for the tourism sector. Who will be the next victim, Mr. Garzón? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u211	Thank you, Mr. Mariscal. Mr Minister for Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u212	Thank you, President. Mr Mariscal, while the Ministry of Consumer Affairs was bringing in measures to strengthen the tourism sector, to protect against possible bankruptcies that thousands of companies of travel agencies were going to face at this juncture - by the way, measures that you did not support here - the Andalusian Council, which you are part of as the presidency of that institution, is liberalizing the sector, is allowing non-professional companies to compete with travel agencies. You prefer quantity to quality. You can't give lessons right now. However, Mr Mariscal, there is something more troubling for me. If the wages in Germany are higher than in Spain or that in their land - in the Canary Islands - or that in my land - Andalusia -, it is not because we are more vague, it is because in Germany they have a productive structure with high technological intensity, economy of knowledge, added value, a diversified structure. We have to combat here the precariousness and seasonality that plagues our economy and also the sector, which causes many people, thousands of workers, to have to live on a leap of death. In order to do this, we have to encourage the modernization and professionalisation of the sector from public policies, to increase the added value. We have to make need, virtue, as I said before. It's time to talk about reconstruction. You, in my opinion, are a man of discretion, at least the times we have spoken, and you are going to play a role in the Committee on Reconstruction. What I am asking you to do is to take the opportunity to hold your shoulder, not to repeat the mistakes of pursuing a low-wage model - as perhaps a minority of entrepreneurs do - and to take advantage of this dramatic circumstance not only to strengthen and support the sector but also to go further and strengthen it. By the way, this that I say is said by the economists, this that I say is said by the unions, this that I say is said by the CEO. I urge you to read it because I am sure you will do it with great enthusiasm. A CEO's report on tourism in the form of weaknesses, threats, strengths and opportunities. It will agree that it is time to think about reconstruction, time to think about strengthening our economy and not so much time to think about tomorrow's votes. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u213	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA JESUS MORO ALMARAZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF UNIVERSITIES: WHAT HAS THE MINISTER OF UNIVERSITIES BROUGHT TO SOLUTION THE PROBLEMS OF UNIVERSITIES DURING THE STATE OF ALARMA? [[File number 180/000147]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u214	Question addressed to the Minister for Universities. Question by Mrs María Jesús Moro Almaraz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u215	Thank you, President. What has the Minister contributed to solving the problems of university students during the state of alarm?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u216	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moro Almaraz. Mr. Minister of Universities.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u217	Thank you very much for this question, because students have been at the centre of my life all the time and, now more than ever, have always been the priority of the policy of the Ministry of Universities. Our goal in this period has been for no student to lose the course due to the pandemic. For this more than two months ago I alerted the Spanish universities to the need to prepare, with the support of the ministry and the autonomous communities, to have a final course in teaching and in examinations in a non-personal way if necessary. And so it has been. Thanks to the extraordinary effort of teachers and students during this period, the course will be completed on time and with academic rigour. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u218	Thank you, Minister of Universities. Mrs. Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u219	Minister, the unsweetened reality is another distinct good. You have not been up to the level of Spanish university students, you needed presence and involvement, not inexplicable absences. You are not a university delegate nor have you been appointed minister to execute your sociological and ideological theses, are you? He returns here today with a new media make-up coup to his mismanagement, with promises about scholarship changes, with wrong criteria that do not take into account the needs of the COVID crisis or realistic budgets, and with a real decree-law that drowns, by haste and unilateral, the universities. He has made it clear that he wants to eliminate the culture of effort, even mock it and exalt the picaresca, the fraud, the copy as an intelligent attitude, which you know the American universities reject. It has given a frivolous image of the students, who ask for help to overcome the course and denies the digital divide. It disqualifies teachers who seek an equitable and secure system for evaluation, and universities such as UNED for the benefit of their Universitat Oberta de Catalunya. Welcome, minister, to the world of appreciation, of the balance between the public and the private; some, yes, we do it out of conviction, and you, unfortunately, without balance and for personal interests. You are responsible for ensuring the equality of students who face EBAU, and those who are facing the most anomalous university course. 149.1a.1 of the Constitution points out to him that framework for his competences, which can only meet well with planning for all and involving all. But the unity of action has not existed in the same government that suspended university activities on 14 March. You have lost the opportunity to be useful and have fed exclusions, contradictions, a policy that encourages confrontation, not agile solutions, not plans that allow you to face this course and plan the next one. Nor has the Government taken advantage of the potential of universities, which were offered to it, universities, researchers; solidarity was there, but no one directed them to the best end. All this contributes little and speaks badly of who is responsible for university. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u220	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moro. Mr. Minister of Universities. Mr. MINISTER DE UNIVERSIDADES : Your Honor, in order to carry out this transition forced by the pandemic to a teaching and non-in-face evaluation, the first thing we did in our ministry was, with the collaboration of the Conference of Rectors of Universities, to ask UNED, a public university that depends directly on our ministry within its autonomy and that I value in the highest degree, and the UOC, a private university, the two universities that have the most experience of non-in-face teaching in our country, to organize together with the ministry and with the CRUE a portal of technological and pedagogical support, which has served to contribute to this transition in an orderly manner. [[Castells Oliván]] Also, I personally spoke with the Conference of Students, I spoke with the directors of numerous Spanish universities, I supported them at all times and, thanks to this, there has been an orderly transition, absolutely unprecedented in two months to a non-personal education due to forced circumstances. But it also serves us as an extraordinary experience for the future because on many occasions we may also have to resort to this combination of face-to-face and virtual that is the modern world, the present world and the world of the future. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u221	Thank you very much, Minister of Universities.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u222	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. An urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro, on the actions to be taken by the Government to alleviate the serious economic and social consequences for the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands of the absolute loss of its main economic activities. For her defence, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u223	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, they say that those sentenced to death really start dying the night before the execution. That is the feeling that we have some of the Members who are here today, those who represent the communities that are going to suffer the worst in the biggest economic crisis in this country since the post-war period. Spain and the whole Union are going to pay this year for the consequences of the confinement and paralysis of the productive sector. [[The Lord]] Experts warn us that we are going to have a crisis in uve, a sharp fall over this year around 9 points of GDP and a recovery that will begin next year. But there are other areas, Minister, within this country where the effects of the pandemic crisis will be lethal. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a huge difference between a crisis and the failure of an economic model. The Canary Islands, as is largely the case in the Balearic Islands, have lost their way of life overnight. In Europe they are concerned about the damage that will result from the loss of tourism in countries such as Greece where it accounts for 24% of its GDP, or in Italy or Spain where it accounts for 13%. In our country we are alarmed by the damage of an activity that employs 12% of workers, but Spain has a powerful export sector based on industry and agriculture. Can you imagine what kind of disaster it is for a territory to lose between 30 and 40% of its GDP and lose 50% of its employment overnight? For these are the figures that are stalling in the Canary Islands, ladies and gentlemen, just those figures. In the Canary Islands, tourism is the driving force behind agriculture and local industry, which live on the inputs of the tourism sector. In a few weeks we have lost a market of 16 million high-level buyers who came every year to the Canary Islands and who each day assumed a floating population of about 300,000 people who rented cars, ate in restaurants, took taxis, visited museums and bought in our shops. All this, Minister, has disappeared, practically overnight without giving us time to prepare. The Canary Islands will lose 12 billion sales of tourism services this year. Right now we have more than 480,000 workers out of the labour market and by the end of the year our unemployment can exceed 50% of the active population of the islands. What is happening now in the Canary Islands is not an economic crisis but a social catastrophe. It is the absolute failure of an economic model that will cause the extinction of the welfare state we enjoyed in our land. No society can survive when it loses half its workforce and the economic sector that creates more jobs and wealth. Madam Minister, I come to this Congress to ask exactly what Spain is asking of the European Union: understanding and solidarity. All the countries of the Union will need exceptional measures to be able to overcome the economic turbulence caused by the health crisis. There is the MEDE, the SURE, the EIB, and the European Central Bank are ready to support each country's debt emissions. We are in extraordinary circumstances that require extraordinary answers. For the tourist archipelagos of Spain the loss of tourism is not an adversity, it is a tragedy. For the Canary Islands to lose 12 million tourists this year is equivalent to an unprecedented catastrophe, as if a volcano broke out in the middle of the islands. The consequences of this impact will cause the most extreme misery and despair in the vulnerable families of our islands. Spain already has data on the instruments available from the European Union. Madam Minister, the Spanish Autonomous Communities have no idea what tools we are going to have. It is time for the Government of Spain to take a step forward. Within our country's recovery plans, it is essential to establish a rescue plan for those territories where the consequences of the social changes caused by the coronavirus compromise the survival of the welfare state. In the case of the Canary Islands, ladies and gentlemen, an extraordinary line of State funding is needed to cover social expenditure and an investment plan capable of keeping our economy alive. The Government of Spain has made an intelligent decision by taking the extension of force majeure ERTs to allow, to the extent possible, the rescue of jobs as soon as the economy of our country returns to functioning. But in the case of communities like the Canary Islands, we are talking about a structural crisis that is going to prolong, hopefully, at least a year and a half. The rescue plan for the Canary Islands must therefore be considered within the multiannual framework of two budgets until we determine to what extent the recovery of a market that has disappeared today due to the insecurity created by the pandemic takes place. That is why we have reached the agreement to extend the ERTEs of the Canary Islands tourism sector until the international markets are open. As you will know, the high season of tourism is winter and, if it is necessary to extend the ERTE until December, it will have to do so, Your Honor, because it is about maintaining the canary productive fabric and the jobs, which are not fixed discontinuous as in other communities in which the season ends in September. In short, Madam Minister, as I said before, in the face of extraordinary circumstances, extraordinary measures are needed. And it's just like that. If we want to save society, we need extraordinary funding, and we also need the Government of Spain to allow our community to go to the debt market to also finance us through our own future efforts. As in that film, The Return to the World in Eighty Days, if we want to get alive at the end of this crisis, we need to burn even the furniture so that the ship will stay on course. It is time to use the surplus and the treasury remnants of local corporations, the time to borrow as much as we can pay in the coming years. It is time to save the welfare state that we have built with great effort in these forty years of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the Canary Islands needs active employment policies that have taken away from us, that are able to keep in operation and in the provision of services of public interest a significant part of that half a million workers who are going to be expelled from the labour market. And we need to push forward the construction with an extraordinary plan of investments in public works that allows the survival of a sector that is right now the only alternative to cushion the destruction caused by the loss of the tourist market. Canaries needs a rescue plan, Minister, a plan that must include funds for social assistance for people and families to whom we must save from extreme poverty. As long as we encourage the revival of the economy and keep the productive fabric alive in the descalation towards the return of tourism, we must ensure that no one is left lying in the gutter, that we do not lose the families most punished by poverty and without the possibility of reintegration into the labour market. That is why it is vital for the Government to sign the employment plan for the Canary Islands and allow us to recover 100 million of the active employment policies, Minister. The Canary Islands has been an exemplary community in meeting the objectives of stability and control of the public deficit, but now the European Union has shown that there are now other priorities than fiscal discipline, because what is at stake is the survival of many countries in the euro area and it is to some extent incomprehensible that in Spain, and being the PSOE in the government, we are taking so long to make decisions commensurate with the threats we face. We are slow to understand the gravity and extent of what is coming upon us. I do not understand that at this point an autonomous community such as the Canary Islands has been allowed to go to the path of own indebtedness as a way of obtaining extraordinary resources. I do not understand that the lobbyists, the canarian municipalities and the community have been allowed to use the surplus and remaining treasury that are in the banks and that can literally serve to save lives right now. We are talking only in the Canary Islands of more than 3000 million euros. And I do not understand that at this point the Government of Spain has no longer drawn up a rescue plan for communities such as the Canary Islands, where what is being drawn is not a scenario of crisis but of social bankruptcy. Why has the European Union already taken steps that the Spanish Government has not taken to tackle the effects of the crisis in our country? What are we waiting for? Ladies and gentlemen, whether we like it or not, we have to recognise it: we are wrong to assess the threat of the health crisis. In Spain, as in many European countries, we are late for the coronavirus crisis. When the Government realized what we were facing, we had to take traumatic and costly measures. That is why the population had to be confined to their homes, in order to save those 300,000 lives that, according to President Sánchez, the coronavirus would have taken away from us. Your Honor, the Canary Islands is threatened with death. What is being seen on the islands is not the arrival of an economic crisis, but the disappearance of the productive fabric, the extinction of the labour market and the establishment of extreme social poverty. All this also has a political reading. I have come here to tell you what is happening, out of loyalty to my people and to this country. This government will have to decide whether to treat the Spaniards who live in the Canary Islands or leave them abandoned to their fate. I have warned you - and I repeat - that he who has ears to hear, let him hear. Canary Islands is in danger of social death. You, gentlemen of the Government, will have to decide whether to rescue her or make her doomed to extinction. But I will tell you what a great poet and socialist of the islands said many years ago, Pedro García Cabrera: 'We are not descendants of a cut tongue, / we do not want to sweat hiel or vinegar, / nor continue to be subjects of a fair of forgetfulness'. If you want to forget us, gentlemen of the government, there you are, but if you forget us, remember that you always collect what you sow. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u224	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u225	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, as you have just said, the Canarian Community is facing a very complicated situation as a result of the coronavirus. It is a community different from the others for obvious reasons related to its geographical location and its high dependence on tourism, as you have pointed out, which accounts for 35 % of economic activity and 40 % of occupation. This fact makes it very directly impacted from the very beginning because it is this sector most immediately affected by restrictions on international mobility and restrictions on mobility in general by citizens. We are perfectly aware of this particular and difficult thesis in which your autonomous community is located. We are not indifferent at all; on the contrary, we are firmly committed. That is why, from the outset, we have acted decisively so that the crisis - certain - does not mean, as you suggested, the breakdown of an economic model. I prefer not to use hyperbolic or similar expressions that seem to me not very appropriate in the health crisis situation we are experiencing. I believe that the Government's work should focus on saving, saving lives, saving businesses, saving jobs and saving sectors that are essential to our country, such as tourism, and that is where we are. In this regard, let me remind you that the first measure launched by the Government was precisely for the tourism sector with the extension of the Official Credit Institute line up to EUR 400 million that we created last autumn after the collapse of Thomas Cook. Also then our reaction was immediate, agile, rapid and proportionate to respond to an unexpected situation that particularly damaged its autonomous community. This line, which has already been laid down in its entirety, has made it possible to finance more than 200 operations in the Canary Islands worth EUR 23 million and has played an important role in channelling liquidity immediately. But, without doubt, the most powerful measure to maintain the productive fabric in this extraordinary period is the line of up to 100 billion euros of endorsements that the ICO is deploying; there are three sections already deployed and the fourth has been approved yesterday in the Council of Ministers. According to the available data, until 18 May the ICO had approved 1607 million euros in 17,614 operations in the Canary Islands, which means that 13,641 companies in the Canary Islands have received almost 2110 million euros of financing with the approval of the State. The tourism sector in general is the most important in the funding that ICO is providing, not only in the Canary Islands but throughout the national territory, with approximately 17% of the total amount of guarantees and the total funding. I am not surprised, as, as we have pointed out, it is the sector most affected. Similarly, temporary employment regulations and the special allowance for self-employed persons have benefited notably from some tourist activities such as hospitality, where up to 82% of the workers affiliated throughout the country are covered by one of these measures. And it is very positive that we signed a week ago to extend the use of these ERTs during the period of the state of alarm, as well as to establish a procedure for the possible extension of this extraordinary mechanism, which involves important budgetary support from all Spanish taxpayers. I know that the Minister of Labour is already setting up a tripartite table to analyse how we are going to adapt this extraordinary system of support for ERTs in the most affected sectors, and obviously tourism is one of those that comes to mind immediately. This means that all workers are being protected with unemployment benefits, that this safety net has been extended for all workers, that we are seeing how to adapt the extraordinary mechanisms of the crisis to accompany the process of descalation and support economic recovery, not to mention the other measures of postponement of tax payments, of extraordinary benefit for cessation of activity, etc. I think more than just talking about ransoms than what we need to talk about is building the future together. That is why the Government has proposed a social and economic reconstruction pact that we have offered to the autonomous communities, to the political parties, to the social actors, to society in the end, which I hope we will have an opportunity to discuss or in whose framework we will have an opportunity to discuss shortly, and which requires the help of all, we must all help to build this plan, because we have to think about the future, and that necessarily means thinking first of all about the tourism sector. We must try to boost as soon as possible the return of national and international visitors. That is why work has already begun in the Tourism Sectoral Commission on a re-launching plan that includes health safety elements. In fact, the Ministry of Health has issued various orders to try to establish as soon as possible a safe operating system for the reopening of hotels, tourist accommodation, swimming pools or beaches in the second phase of the descalade. Part of the territory of the Canary Islands is already at that stage or will be very soon at that stage, which will enable all these reactivation measures to be implemented. And these are tremendously important measures, because I believe that your honor will agree with me on the crucial importance of regaining confidence in the Spanish tourism sector, recovering economic activity in a framework that can guarantee the safety and health of all people who come to our wonderful enclaves. You have pointed out the importance of coordination with our European partners - this would be the second chapter that I think is fundamental in this context - and it is that the countries of the Union are among the main visitors of our country, are key to the tourism sector in general and especially to the tourism sector in the Canary Islands. In this regard, nine countries, including Spain, presented a joint statement at the last informal meeting of tourism ministers requesting a recovery plan from the European Union to alleviate the negative impact of the pandemic on the European tourism sector. The aim is to establish uniform and shared protocols by all Member States, to allocate sufficient funds to be able to recover activity and to support businesses and workers in the sector in the future recovery plan of the European Union, and to address the specific problems of island or outermost regions. In this regard, the Spanish Government is firmly committed and working very actively to ensure that tourism plays a key role in all that is the plan for reconstruction and future economic recovery that is being built at European level. And I will now turn to two specific issues which are particularly important in this immediate future. I have already mentioned the importance of common security protocols. We also need common protocols on the opening of borders, because we are convinced that it is the only way to maintain the unity of the single European area at this difficult time, without prejudice of course to the fact that each country can adapt the rules to its specificities and the stage of descalation in which it finds itself, according to its epidemiological data. In fact, in this context, last week the European Commission published a package of guidelines and recommendations on how to gradually withdraw travel restrictions, in order to move towards a return to progressive normality that will save part of this summer campaign for tourism. I would point this out to you because a few days ago you expressed the importance you attached to safety in all aspects of traffic, and in particular air transport, which is so important to the Community of the Canary Islands. We are following this whole process very closely at European level so that our country is very aligned with the international recommendations, and we can, as I said, recover that flow of tourists as soon as possible. Beyond the topic of common protocols in the physical field and of transport safety, there is another area where we are also working actively at European and national level, the development of mechanisms for the tracing of contacts, the use of apps, which are being developed in different areas to try to have additional tools to control a possible outbreak of the epidemic. I am aware that the Canarian Government is very interested in having these mechanisms as soon as possible, being key for Spain to use technologies, to use interoperable apps, so that anyone from anywhere in the Union can feel safe and participate in the system of monitoring the tracing of contacts and the possible expansion of the epidemic, in order, in short, as I always say, to recover tourism safely. That is why we are working actively with the Government of the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands to develop the first pilot there for the establishment of this health system support app, an app that must, of course, be perfectly respectful of individual rights and the protection of privacy and privacy of people, and that must have added value and support the safety and monitoring network for the possible expansion of the Canarian health system virus. Canary Islands is ideal for the importance of its tourism sector, for the importance of using these apps to make tourists feel safe in our country, beyond the descalade, and it is also ideal because it has an autonomous government very committed to that safe descalade, and with which we are collaborating very directly. Beyond all these measures, we can talk about all the issues of support for autonomous financing. You know better than I the economic and fiscal regime in the Canary Islands and all the measures we have taken to ensure sufficient funding for the autonomous communities. The largest amount of increased deliveries to approved account has already been received, an increase in deliveries to account that was made with a growth forecast for this year of 1.6% of GDP and that we have decided to maintain, despite the significant fall in GDP and the tax revenues of the State that will be produced due to the epidemic of COVID. The Canary Islands has already collected the advance of EUR 454 million of the 50 % settlement of 2018 that it had requested. I would have received it later this year, but we have already paid for it. To this should be added the corresponding share of the non-reimbursable fund of 16 billion to finance health and other response measures to the epidemic. It is very clear that this Government is committed to the autonomous communities, as well as to local corporations, to which we have already given flexibility to be able to respond to their responsibilities, in particular in the care of dependent people and the most vulnerable. In short, and I conclude now, Your Honor, we are aware that there are many emergencies and that the needs are great. Our whole country is facing a complicated situation. I prefer to remove alarmist, threatening, hyperbolic tones and focus on finding solutions, betting for the future. I am sure that we share the vision that without health there is no economy, that we need to act decisively and quickly to regain confidence and bet on safe and sustainable tourism, and beyond tourism to recover and support the productive fabric of the workers and the most vulnerable people, also with that safety net and social protection, including the minimum living income we are working on. I think it is important that we all find the best way to support this reconstruction plan, supported by the clear and certain fact that, as the President himself pointed out today, this government has no intention of leaving anyone behind, no person, no territory. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u226	Thank you, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Oramas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u227	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you're an economist, like me. What would you think, as the Minister of Economic Affairs of this country, if I told the Spanish Government that, in the middle of this crisis, their income would fall, in twenty-four hours and without forecast, 50% or 30%? For the Government of the Canary Islands, lobbyists and municipalities, the main source of income is the income of the economic and fiscal system, the IGIC that tourists pay. For this year, not 50% of the income will be allocated to the lobbyists, who are not members of Parliament, but who have responsibility for the whole social and health issue, the municipalities, with the social services in operation, and the autonomous community. That is why I asked you one thing, are those remaining in current accounts in banks in the Canary Islands, of the Canary Islands, which are the most compliant in the country, which are close to 4 billion, going to allow them to be used to meet the social emergency? Answer me. Answer me to that. I don't use hyperbolic terms. Do you know who talked about a rescue plan? The president of the Canary Islands, with all the political forces behind him. Do you know who said two hours ago that the situation in the Canary Islands was a tragedy? President Sánchez; i.e., what ratings no. I asked you something else. You're talking about the REF. Do you know that in this year's budgets there is an Education Infrastructure Plan of 42 million in the name of the Canary Islands, which would be fundamental to transforming the classrooms, and which has not been signed? And jobs in the construction sector; 42 million in the Tourism Infrastructure Plan and 500 million for roads. And you know why I'm telling you? Because it is not just the infrastructure we need; it is 150 000 jobs in the construction sector that, as we also fall, we can reach 60% or 70% unemployment. And do you know what you told me specifically for the Canary Islands? Of course, that credit, like the Spanish. Okay, but I'm asking you about specific issues for our land, as you're claiming Brussels! The situation in Spain, Greece or Italy is completely different; solidarity and more support for those who are going through the worst. And you answer me with the app that, of course we know it! Of course we all know her. And the tourism ERTs, which have to be extended until December, do you know why it was? Because they wanted this Member's vote a week ago. Let's work together. I'm asking you about a public works infrastructure plan. I am asking you, above all, when is the government going to tell the president of the Canary Islands, the president of the lobbyists and the mayors that they can take the money out of the accounts to take care of the citizens? I am asking you when you sign the Canary Islands Employment Plan, which is in the budgets, 42 million, and which would allow the municipalities to hire more than 20 000 people. I am asking you whether all public investment items in the construction sector will be carried out. That is what I am asking the Government of Spain. We're not gonna stay behind. I'm not the enemy. Coalition Canaria is like a pineapple with the government of Canarias demanding what I'm saying. And we're going to be pinion with our government, which is socialist, which kicked us out of the government, but we're responsible people. And I'm not an alarmist. Canary Islands had 37% unemployment a few years ago; and in the 1970s 100,000 Canary Islands had to leave for Venezuela when the oil crisis; and we no longer have Venezuela. We have no industry there, because industry supplies the tourism sector. And we need a plan, the plan that the president of the government of the Canary Islands has designed with all the political, trade union and business forces, but that has a financial record; and in that financial record there is a share of co-responsibility of the state, and they continue to bully the president of the Canary Islands, and they continue to bully the canaries; and we are going to be late, minister. What I am asking you today is that the same speech that you are defending in Brussels that Spain needs more solidarity, more funds, because it is happening worse, apply it within this country. I'm not hyperbolic, what I am is canary, my land hurts and I'm not doing a political use. People are going to have a bad time, they're going to be hungry, and we're 2500 kilometers away, with the political consequences that that has. It is not the same hunger on the peninsula as in the Canary Islands, so I guarantee you that at least my political strength will work with the Government of the Canary Islands and the Government of Spain, if they are able to move forward. And the issue of the ORs is a fundamental issue, because Portugal and France three times saved the Canary Islands, because the presidents of the Government of Spain were elsewhere. However, the Presidents of France and Portugal had special policies, because the ORs, Madeira, Azores, the Canary Islands and the French overseas islands are the most unemployed of the whole European Commission. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your generosity.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u228	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor to conclude the debate, on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u229	Mrs Oramas, three fundamental points. I am not going to repeat all the arguments I have already put forward that highlight our Government's deep commitment to the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands, our empathy with all the Canary people, with everything that is happening at this time; a commitment and empathy that are not from now on, that we have been demonstrating from the very beginning, and that you know that we have certainly fulfilled in times of need, as was - a situation also in its dramatic moment - Thomas Cook's bankruptcy last autumn, simply talking about economic issues. This commitment is clear, as is our willingness to cooperate and work together to get the best out of this situation. Secondly, I believe that what we have to bet on right now is to recover that activity as soon as possible, to recover the activity of those key sectors with certainty. In this we are working day and night to establish these security protocols for the tourism sector, security protocols for digital apps, security protocols and a regime that allows us to recover safe air transport as soon as possible, so key to the economic activity of the islands. With regard to purely budgetary issues, he was well aware that there was a bilateral commission on how to update economic forecasts and how to see the best way to activate and use the remnants, the surplus that the lobbyists, other local corporations, the autonomous community itself could have. I mean, we have a framework for collaboration. Your Honor, we're on the same boat. I do not think it is constructive to put forward an environment in which the Government seems to be bulling, deceiving, not responding, is not up to its commitments, when the evidence and reality say otherwise with regard to the whole of our country, but very particularly with regard to the Canary Islands. So let's work together, let's work together, let's keep looking for common answers so that no one stays behind, and especially so that the Canary Islands will soon return to a great tourist power, which is what we all want and what we all work for, Your Honor. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u230	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENTS TO EXPLAIN WHAT ACTIVITIES ARE PROVIDED FOR [[LORD MAZÓN RAMOS]] AND WHAT CRITERIA DOES THE MINISTERY MADE FOR THE ASSISTANCE THAT IS IN THESE CONDITIONS TO BE AVAILABLE FROM THE REMAND OF TREASURY THAT HAVE BEEN ACCOMMODATED, FROM THE SUPERAVIT GENERATED IN THE LAST EXERCIES. [[File number 172/000029]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u231	We turn to the urgent inquiry of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos, to the Minister of Finance to explain what actions she intends to promote and what criteria the ministry handles so that the municipalities that are in these conditions can dispose of the remaining treasury that they have accumulated, coming from the surplus generated in the last exercises. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u232	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. The situation of the treasury of the municipalities of Spain is well known, and it is a recurring matter already for several years, but in these months it has been placed in the first line of the outstanding matters and they do not finish closing. To this are added some statements of the minister in the last days that have caused more concern, despite the denials that they have made since the ministry. I won't repeat them to you, but there are those who encourage the suspicion that they are probe balloons. The fact is that on 31 March Royal Decree 11/2020 was promulgated, which adopted urgent social and economic measures against COVID. This decree allowed municipalities to spend only 20% of the 2019 surplus and only for expenses directly related to the COVID-19 pandemic. This decision has caused a deep discomfort in most of the municipalities affected, and this discomfort has been increasing because, despite having formed a commission formed by the Federation of Municipalities and Provinces of the Autonomous Communities and the FEMP itself, it has not met lately and that I know already for at least two or three weeks without being convened. Although there was a meeting of the President of the Government with the Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, you are the representative of the matter and you have to answer on this matter. I imagine that you must be in permanent contact with Abel Caballero, the president of the FEMP, and that you will have talked about something new about the requests of the municipalities, but the fact is that none of the federations of municipalities of the autonomous communities have news, and he had an order to continue to negotiate with the government on behalf of the FEMP, but nothing is known. That is why I ask you to explain here the scope of those talks, which you have had with him, if there has been any, because at the moment the position of the municipalities is very much in favour of making their own funds available with complete freedom in the present circumstances. We are all aware that at this time it is not possible for the regulation of financial sustainability and because we need to have an overall view, but circumstances have already changed in a radical way. To begin with, there is no longer a limitation on deficit and debt on the part of the European Union, and this completely changes things for the Spanish Government. To this day, which seems to be the health issue, the two great challenges we have are to meet the people who are having a really bad time, who don't even have to eat - and they are the people closest to the municipalities - and to help those who are seeing their economy, their own savings are going to the bottom and need to resume economic activity as soon as possible; many of them are going out of unemployment and others are small entrepreneurs, SMEs and self-employed. To combat all this the municipal treasury purse is like a gift fallen from the sky, because we are talking about a very important amount, of the order of 28 billion euros, according to the latest calculations that have been made public. We have to make a decision now, especially the Government: do we want a quick recovery or a slow recovery? And I say this because it is repeated a lot - and I share it - that we have to go to a productive model change, but then I will say something about that. In any case, what is unanimous is that we have to act on economic reconstruction as soon as possible, and it is obvious that we have to act at all levels, starting with Europe, which is doing a lot of begging. They talked about the last investment of half a billion euros, but they had also talked about one before and everything is being delayed. In Spain too, this plan will be delayed for a few months. Many autonomous communities have already begun - in Cantabria there is a shock plan fundamentally to alleviate the damage it is causing - and the municipalities are also moving, because they have the closest need - do not reach Congress, but the mayor is called to the door - but much less than they need. That's why you have to make shock plans at all levels. Each has its own field and the municipalities are probably the fastest to act. I will try to be constructive and try to contribute something to this debate. The problem is that when you get out here, as it's all being recorded and there's TV, you have to be very careful about what you say and not screw up, because sometimes you have to say what our voters want and not risk any controversial issues. My proposal is to allow the municipalities to devote most of this savings, that of the last eight years - not only that of the 2019 surplus - to investments, and in particular to public works and subsidies to neighbours for the rehabilitation of housing, which is in line with the ideas of the European Union. We are going to put aside at this moment the construction of large infrastructures to fight climate change, to prevent disasters such as floods, droughts, earthquakes; infrastructures that, as Jeremy Rifkin said, serve us to live in a different way, what is called the Green New Deal. These include large energy, communications, transport and logistics infrastructure. This is what the European Union recommends. But the controversial issue and what affects us here in the short term is that, in recent times, there has been a tendency in Spain to demonise the construction sector and, in particular, the companies in the sector. I myself have often suffered accusations of supporting public works companies when I was a consultant to the branch, because there are people who think that what needs to be done is to pursue contractors because they are dockers, but logically I think that the rulers, especially those who are dedicated to public works, support these types of companies, and I say to everyone, the big ones, the small ones and the medium ones. In fact, the big ones are pioneers of the big companies in the world. Today I want to defend here the need to apply the Keynesian recipe, but without going to the extreme when it said, in its general theory, that what had to be done was to bury tickets and get companies to take them out, because that generated economic activity and generated employment. It is not about that, but the important thing is to put the machinery to work to create employment and recover the production chain. That's not my main argument, is it? Economic activity in a country is full of networks of millions of commercial and industrial relations between all, businesses and citizens, and this goes from the highest level, from the level of industry to the lowest level, that of citizens. Now it's up to the public administrations to act, and on the scale that each of the municipalities has to play a key role in these small works that, in addition, are the ones that their neighbors want. And I'm going back to a question I asked at first. Do we want a quick recovery or do we want a slow recovery? Because you really have to decide what the role is. It is clear that in such a globalised world we will follow the recovery that the rest of Europe has, and if Europe goes faster, so will we, although we will go a little slower because it seems that it is doing us more harm. But it is clear that we have a plot of our own on which we can act, and there the drag has to be noticed, but the fundamental thing is that in what is in our own hands we act. A short-term model change is not possible and this is something we all need to know. We have to take advantage of our strengths because of course we are not going to start making chips or scanners overnight, but what we do know is to manufacture, build roads, squares, public lights, all these small works that will continue to exist and will continue to be necessary forever. In addition, today we are in a very different situation than in 2007, where there was a big bubble; as an example, in Cantabria, the construction sector increased from about 40,000 employed to about 10,000, a share has been recovered, but not much. So, right now, we don't have to have any fear of bubbles or anything like that, what it's all about is reassembling the economy. And in all this micro-economy of peoples and families, in the end, there are relationships that are in an unstable balance, and what can't be done is to suddenly change the macro-economy, but in the small one it can act, and this is what I want to propose to you, that an important shock plan be made for the public work. It's fast, it generates a lot of activity and it also generates one thing that I suppose would be very good for you, and it is that it generates a return to the public coffers of the order of 50% and with the drop of collection that I suppose will be there, and that you will know, look at how well these entries would come in the treasury of something that is not producing anything. I am not saying that they spend the 28 billion, but an important part should be taken into account. The Government of Cantabria has now made a small plan in the councilhouse for municipalities to devote it to lighting, roads, all water cycle-related works and which also recommends Europe, sanitation, supplies, purification and things related, and much, to climate change. Mrs Von der Leyen also said that this shock plan must be combined with the green pact and the Digital Agenda. But today we are talking about something very home, very close: the municipalities. There are eight thousand municipalities in Spain, many of which have surpluses, and I think they need to have this kind of activity. In addition, capital investments, taking savings to capital or even debt at least balance your assets and liabilities, it's not like when you go straight to consumption, which eventually disappears. The multiplier of investment is much greater than consumption, because in the end it also comes to consumption, then we have to go through this process. At the moment we are already with a series of measures that are what they have to take and are taking the Government of the nation and many autonomous communities, but we will complete it with this other kind of investment. I think what I'm saying here is not new, there are a lot of people who are going to say it, but it's fundamental if we want to see things in the medium term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u233	Thank you very much. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u234	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Mazón, I share many of the statements that you have made here in the rostrum - I am now going to reply specifically to some of them - but I believe that you can also share that this Government has always been sensitive to the approaches that have been made by the different administrations, I believe that we have demonstrated this with the facts, because for this Government - it is something that I repeat continuously in this Chamber - the problem of the autonomous communities, the problem of the municipalities, is the problem of the Government. I do not agree with the fact that there are problems for the Government to find others, as if the deficit objective of the whole Kingdom of Spain was not satisfied by the sum of the various deficits, as if the economic recovery did not consist in each of us putting our powers at the service of the citizen, because I believe, Mr Mazón, that we can share that the citizen is unique, living where he lives. I don't care if the citizen is canary, cantabrian, Andalusian or Catalan. He is a citizen of Spain who needs opportunities to recover his daily life, not only in terms of fighting the health crisis, but also with employment opportunities, because at the moment they can appear as more shadows than the lights we had at the beginning of the year. It is essential that this concept of country be able to live it from the different environments of the Administration. I, as you well know, have had other responsibilities in other administrations throughout my political life. I therefore believe that it is legitimate for everyone to aspire to defend the interests he represents, either because he has an institutional role, or because he belongs to a regionalist party, but I think one cannot forget that in the end the collective action of politics is the sum of which we are each able to contribute in the common basket for all citizens to benefit. Recently the policy - I think you can share it, Mr. Mazón - is becoming more of a struggle between the administrations, which seems to be here to peel us, than to grab our shoulder to see how everyone can contribute with their means, with their skills or with their knowledge of the environment. Your Honor, I absolutely share and defend the autonomy of the municipalities. In addition, I come from a deeply municipalist party. I believe that you, whenever you listen to some Member of the Socialist Party, can corroborate that our great strength, our great capacity, that of virtually all the political formations that we are here, at least the most numerous, lies precisely in our capacity for neighbours to support our project, to vote for us and to be able to know that reality, that we are close to those problems. It is the municipalities that are our strength, our energy and also our constructive criticism when things are not doing the best they can. Your Honor, at this time in the country, it is essential that we reach major agreements, agreements with broad outlines on how policy needs to be marked, on how we need to determine these priorities and on how each can contribute according to its own competence or its own resources. I do not say this in naive or naïve terms, as if we do not know each other where we come from or where we are; I say this because it will really be much more difficult for us to get Spain out of the situation in which the health crisis has placed us if everyone is with their own strength pulling from the rope to one side, without taking into account that there are other people, other institutions, other collectives who can help, who can contribute if we agree on the common goal. And I believe, Your Honor, that the objective you defined here is a shared objective with the Government. We all have to agree on what strengths we have as a country in order to try to strengthen them in the framework of enabling a recovery that I would always call just - I think you share this with me too - to leave no one behind and also to serve as a transformative and accelerating vector of the great challenges that, as a country, we have raised in relation to climate change, with the digital transition, with the competitiveness of our companies, with the ability to internationalize our environment. All these issues, by repeating them, may seem to be out of place, but they are more current than ever when it comes to moving or moving; there is no possibility of remaining still. The country is not going to move forward if a part of the country - I don't care whether it is trade unions, employers, political parties, municipalities, autonomous communities or the Government - is not able to move and move towards an environment in which, as little as we can agree, I am convinced that there is a common denominator that we can agree on and that we can all put forward. I will not give you all the battery of measures that have been taken during this time, but they have pursued as a fundamental element, first of all, to protect the health system. The health system needed a reinforcement, a strength, a volume of resources that would enable it to continue to move forward and care for people who were vulnerable by disease, because they were within the risk groups, for the reasons we talk about every day here. A second package of measures has been aimed at social protection. There is a real obsession on the part of the Government that no one is left behind, that this pandemic not only does not exacerbate the starting inequalities that we already had for the previous crisis and for the previous management of the economic crisis, but that, if possible, it also accelerates some of the approaches that we had marked for the period of a legislature and that allow us to protect those collectives, those people who, if they were already having a bad time, now see the horizon a little darker because it will still take a few months for that activity to recover in full and return to the growth rates that we had at the beginning of this year, which seems to be a long time ago, but only two or three months ago, just in January. In this environment, Your Honor, I would like to place the debate on the use of the resources of the various administrations. The first thing this government wanted to put forward was in relation to Europe. It was necessary, apart from the loans - which we are grateful for - the situation of greater liquidity for the countries most affected by the pandemic - which we are grateful for, and I am referring to the MEDE, the reinsurance programme, the SURE, the liquidity injected by the EIB - we thought it essential that there was a restructuring fund that would allow the countries with the greatest impact of the pandemic to have a capacity to receive transfers, that Europe would somehow be indebted to the part that Europe had to do to transfer to the countries money that was essential for economic and social reconstruction, especially for some sectors. Here in the morning and in the afternoon some of them have been mentioned: the tourism, trade and hospitality sector. Because, although all sectors have been affected by the crisis, some have experienced a much deeper situation. In this sense, 16 billion were put on the table, implying that it is the Government of Spain that is left with the deficit, the one that is left with the debt; it transfers the money to the autonomous communities so that they do not suffer - they are providers of basic public services - the tension that the Government of Spain is going to suffer. You told me, Mr Mazón, that Europe has left the Stability Programme unused. That statement is not entirely true, although I understand that it is because it is what comes out in the media. Europe has not yet been defined with regard to the Stability Plan that the Spanish Government has sent, which calls for a fall in GDP to 9.2, a deficit of 10.34 and a debt target of 115, an astronomical figure if we compare it with the path we have been on in recent times. In this environment, Your Honor, we felt it desirable that the tension in the public accounts should be maintained by the Government of Spain. On the other hand, we have talked a lot during this time about the so-called surplus of the municipalities, of the remnants, of the rule of spending, of all those parameters of fiscal consolidation that provide a limit, a perimeter, so that the municipalities cannot spend over this issue. I have commented in this rostrum on several occasions that the Government was talking to the FEMP in order, as best as possible, to try to reach an agreement on the use of these resources because the competitive framework that the law of rationalization of the municipalities laid down to the local entities is a very limited framework. At the moment there is an aspiration on the part of the municipalities to exceed that limit of competence, but what you will share with me is that we will not do a duplicity of the services that are provided by the different administrations, with an asymmetry that also exists, because each municipality in relation to the public accounts is a world, just as each autonomous community has its own uniqueness in relation to the public accounts. I can tell you, Your Honor, that on Monday - I think it was before yesterday, I do not know if it was before yesterday or yesterday, excuse me if I have a lapsus with the day - the FEMP sent a proposal to the Ministry of Finance that we are going to study, in which there are some issues that, in the first cross-sectional view that I have made on the document, I can share; there are some others that are not part of the competition core of the municipalities and that we will have to discuss. I hope that in my second speech I will be able to convey to you a little more how we see it from the Ministry of Finance. What is important at this time is that we each contribute our competence and also contribute our resources, not from a patrimonialistic sense, Mr.Mazón, I do not share the patrimonial sense; the resources are of the citizens, they are of all, and the citizens will want to be used, in coordination between the administrations, in those policies that best contribute to the country's uprising and to the general interest. I believe that this must be the framework within which we have to raise this issue. It seems to me that the environment of the reconstruction commission's plan that was created in this Congress of Deputies is a very important site to be able to see how and how local entities can contribute to that reconstruction. In the meantime, Mr. Mazón, what we are doing is that the municipalities can, in the exercise of their powers, attend to the social emergency. From there came that 20% to which you referred, it is 300 million that were exempted from the rule of spending on municipalities. The same applies to conciliation policies, with minimum living income. I think that we have a long way to go and that there is room for everyone, and everyone has to exercise in that space where the development of these competences is more proper to him, without hindering us, adding, each trying to pose where the other does not arrive and, therefore, Your Honor, I believe that doing what the citizens ask us to do: that we all agree so that in the end it is the general interest that prevails. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u235	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u236	Thank you so much, again. As for what you said to me that we depend on Europe, that is not exactly the case. What is clear is that the deficit and debt targets have disappeared. Another thing is that the Spanish Government has submitted its reconstruction plan there, which I do not know at this time. In this plan of the Government I do not know what role the remnants of the treasury of the municipalities have, because I imagine you will have contemplated it when you propose it. He hasn't answered much about the Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. He tells me there's a proposal just made but only Mr. Knight should know it, because most of the mayors I've asked don't know it. In fact, the president of the Federation of Municipalities of Cantabria has no idea. So, yes, we would like to know what proposal he has made to the ministry and, above all, I would like the municipalities to know. Nor has he told us exactly what the criteria you are thinking about for that fund are. I do not know whether he has specified this in Europe because, of course, they are resources that are there. They are resources of the municipalities, of each municipality. To say that the resources are of all citizens as rhetoric is fine, but we already know that they are not of the citizens, they are of each city council, each different from the one next. Each one, each corporation, handles them and they are not of all citizens, although from the point of view of speech it sounds very good. It's really his money. I wanted him to have answered some other question because, for example, I heard him say that there could be inequality between municipalities that have surplus and those that do not. Sure, but that's where we have to think about the citizens. The investment that I am proposing to you in public works, apart from benefiting anyone who gets the investment, benefits everyone around, because it is a chain of production and commercial relations that, in the end, reaches everyone. It's about moving economy. Some, of course, benefit from the asset, but the key is to move the economy. Individual citizens must have the rights, but that is what the governments of the autonomous communities and the central government are for, so that there is equality. I think you would have to be brave and act fast, because if you don't act soon, we all know the bidding times, the investment times and the processing of the work files, which take months to arrive. The municipalities are the fastest, but, for example, the suspension of deadlines that they are going to put on from June 1st, it had to be done from before, because we have to have the papers and the projects ready by the time the day comes. I think you have to be really brave and change this law. There is also another issue that I think is very interesting because, although it is not strictly economic, it is important for the morale of citizens. If the citizens see activity, if the citizens see scaffolding, if the citizens see roads under execution, closed places, they start to see it with another joy. Soon we can all be on the street, all industrial and commercial activities will be in action and then it would be very good if, at the same time, this activity were seen and not just people walking freely. Moreover, I have already told you that there is no bubble, unfortunately; there could have been already because that would mean that we would be at an optimal time. I think you have to forget about the spending ceiling right now, you have to forget about it somehow. You're the minister and you have to find a way to do it. What is clear is that action must be taken, and action must be taken as soon as possible. The pandemic, the health part, is already more or less outdated, will follow its pace, with greater or lesser measures, but its pace is marked. What is not marked is that of economic activity, and that depends heavily on the will of the rulers.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u237	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister of Finance has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u238	Thank you, President. Very briefly. Mr. Mazón, I just want to say that it's not a rhetorical phrase, it's probably not the one that's stretched out when everyone defends their legitimate interests, I can share that, but I think that at this time that the country is living we have to have a little bit of a look and be able to all the administrations to work side by side. And side by side is trying to make sure that among all political groups we are able to identify the political priorities on which the country's recovery has to be sustained. It does not seem to me a bad formula that you have commented on, for example, activation of public works for those equipments that are important to develop; the construction sector is a sector that absorbs intensively labour. It is one of the plans that can be on the table, like a tourism reactivation plan or a plan that allows for the digitisation of our companies or the more accelerated transformation of sectors traditionally linked to fossil energy. I want to say that of course there is a great challenge in addressing the priorities that we have as a country and the municipalities have a key role to play in this environment. What is important here, from my point of view, Mr Mazón, is that we are able to transcend the particular part that each of us has of our administration and to ensure the general interest. And why should I tell him? Because from the point of view you have put it in relation to the fact that everyone's money is each one's, from that point of view I would not have put on the table a plan of 16 billion directed at the autonomous communities. He would have said: for the autonomous communities, with their money, with their indebtedness and their deficit do what they have to do, and the Government of Spain, with its money and with its deficit, will do what it has to do. And that was not the approach of the Government of Spain. I want to say with this that it is clear that the money of the Government of Spain is the money of all citizens and the money of local corporations is the money of all citizens, as is the money of the autonomous communities if it is paid with the same taxes, Mr Mazón. Nobody's talking about taking anything from anyone here. What I am proposing is a great pact for reconstruction where we agree on political priorities and see which administration has the greatest capacity or the best chance of implementing those plans and carrying them out, that is what I propose. And I am not proposing it just because of the health pandemic; I have proposed it in many of the other important discussions on the country model, when we talk about the provision of basic public services, or on issues that are really important to articulate territorial cohesion. And I think this is important because it's not solved in such a simple way as that. You asked me about the proposal sent to me by the EMFF, the EMFF directive, I think I remember it was Monday afternoon. I have to study it in detail. But there are some issues that I think it is essential to move. One of them relates to the ability of the municipalities to accompany the part that we need for no citizen to stay behind, and to see that this Government wants to boost a new benefit in the coming weeks such as minimum living income and will do so from Social Security. That makes it necessary to redefine the role of other administrations, autonomous communities that had such benefits, municipalities that were paying for the social emergency, electricity bills, water bills... Of course, there has to be a dialogue when one of the administrations is going to cover one of the most important gaps in inequality, where we have all done what we have been able to do, but the figures of inequality invited us to launch a more ambitious global policy that would enable us to reach people we have not yet reached. This requires a redefinition of this framework and we must see what role the municipalities will play in this environment that is their own, because they know perfectly well the situation of families. There is another framework that for the municipalities is of enormous concern and that Minister Ábalos was trying to calibrate with the different administrations, which is what has happened with the lack of income related to transport, more acute in the part that corresponds to the non-foral autonomous communities and the municipalities. It is not that the Government of Spain does not affect it, it is that there are other taxes that have a much more important impact, but it is obvious that the mobility of transport has to be maintained throughout this period without the users having used it and with a perspective of slightly less use than that which was at the beginning of the crisis for reasons of social distancing, which I do not need to repeat. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, social expenditure, measures which affect the under-financing situation caused by transport. The role they can play in reconstruction will be designed from the Congress of Deputies itself, that will have to be accompanied by their own resources, but I would like this debate - in which I am convinced that we will agree - to be a calm debate, a debate that will allow us to transcend those logical limits at an extraordinary time for the country. In an exceptional situation among all of us, we must be able to see what the general interest is and to put the administrations at the service of that common interest by providing competence, by providing resources, but by thinking of the interest of the citizen, who is a single interest, whoever provides such services. Therefore, we will work on it, Mr. Mazón. I am sure that we will reach that agreement and that the municipalities will be satisfied with the role they have to play so that this country can get out of the crisis, because without the municipalities we will not get out of this crisis situation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u239	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - THE PLURARY PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE USE OF THE REMAILS OF THE TREASURY OF LOCAL CORPORATIONS TO BE DESTINED TO CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIAL POLICIES AND REACTIVATION OF LOCAL WORK AND ECONOMIC ACTIVITY [[MR. BEL ACCENSI]] [[File number 172/000030]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u240	Next, urgent inquiry by the Plural Parliamentary Group, on the use of the treasury remnants of local corporations to contribute to social and reactivation policies of local labour and economic activity. [[Mr. Bel Accensi]] For your defence, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u241	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, you may find this inquiry to be repetitive, but, look, the three appeals lodged this afternoon by three different political groups and three different territories are calling for concrete action with regard to the possibility of using the treasury remnants of local corporations and municipalities. This must therefore be an important and truly worrying issue. Over the past few weeks and months, the situation has been very complicated: it has been for the Government and for the governments of the autonomous communities, but it has also been, Minister, for the hundreds, thousands of mayors, mayors and councillors who, sometimes, from a certain loneliness and isolation, have had to face very complicated situations and, as you know and we all share, the municipalities are the first trench, where the needs are really perceived. Therefore, I would ask you today that when you come up to this rostrum to answer me do so by not responding to this Member, but by thinking that you are speaking directly to these mayors, mayors and councillors who at the moment have a high degree of uncertainty about their future, not about their personal future, but about the future of their institutions and the future of their fellow citizens, because they are also redefining their budgets, they are also reformulating their priorities, not about the exercise, but about the whole mandate, and some do not understand how, after the effort made for many years - some by their own management and others by the management of other government teams - these treasury remnants that have accumulated over the last few years, now, which are difficult moments, cannot be applied. Remnants of treasury, which are the closest thing to the operating fund of any company or the savings accumulated over the last few years, are of a significant amount. The latest published data is from 2018 and amounted to 17,841 million euros that of the Spanish state as a whole, of the local corporations. I already know that the 2019 surplus is 3839 million euros. You'll want to talk more about the surplus and now I want to talk more about the remnants. At the moment, Madam Minister, it is imperative that the municipalities, which are adult and responsible administrations, can freely use this remnant. I want you to come up here today and say it clearly or, if not, to say: no, you will not be able to use it freely. And I would also like you to use it to dispel all these - I don't know what they are - probe balloons or bubbles, because it is true that some of your speeches in the Committee on Finance or the intervention of the Minister for Territorial Policy, last Thursday in this House, cast some doubt. Even when you say here that the remnants are not of the municipalities, but of the citizens, I have to say: yes, yes, but they are of the citizens of that municipality. Look, what are these remnants of fruit? For they are the result of increased fiscal pressure from some municipalities on others; they are the result of lower expenditure from some municipalities on others. Therefore, I understand that you ask me what we do with the citizens of the municipalities that have no remnants. For we will have to study it, but it must favor those who have generated it, the citizens of that municipality, because if at some point - I think it should not be so and I would like you to come up here to deny it - a mutualization of the remnants of treasury would be an absolute disincentive for a good management of each of the local corporations. I'm sure it won't, and I'd like you to come up here and say that the mutualization of the treasury remnants is a fake new, a bubble, and there's no need to be afraid. Each may use its remnants. What do I ask of you? That they can be used in social spending, 20% - I would not put any restrictions on them, Minister - and also in financially sustainable investments because - we talked about a moment ago - investments at local level, investments in public works, have on local economies a tractor factor that is very relevant in some municipalities and should therefore be able to use them. They can also be used for employment plans at the local level or to help small businesses, self-employed people, and municipalities will already decide what is a priority at every moment because they are adult administrations, beyond protecting them under article 140 of the Constitution establishing their autonomy, municipal autonomy. And don't worry, the mayors are aware that next year is going to be very difficult, of course they are, as they are aware that they are going to have a significant reduction in their income in the 2021 fiscal year. They will already reserve them in the proportion they deem appropriate. We ask you to use these remnants, obviously, without them computing for the spending rule. It wouldn't make sense. This already happened with financially sustainable investments and has happened with 20%, but not with the rest of the remnants. And most importantly, Minister - it is something that creates problems for many municipalities - which also does not count for establishing budgetary stability. We only ask for the 2020 and 2021 years. This is feasible because, according to article 11 of the Budget Stability Act, the autonomous communities and the General Administration of the State, in the face of exceptional situations such as the one we are living in, can obviate it; instead, local corporations cannot. I no longer ask you to avoid it; the only thing I ask you to do is to ensure that this budgetary stability is not affected by the application of the rest of the treasury. In addition, we need concreteness and timetable, Minister. Mayors and mayors need calendars. They are pending every Tuesday whether there is a royal decree or not; tell them what they want to do and give them a calendar. Minister, there are other aspects of the local administration that concern us. As they have done for the General Administration of the State and Social Security, they would have to try to give the possibility of deferring municipal taxes without interest of delay. Article 10 of the Law Regulating Local Finances provides for it with two restrictions: that there must be an ordinance that regulates it - at present many municipalities do not have it and, if they have to process it, no longer arrive in time - and that debts have to be paid in full in the current year. We ask you, as many municipalities ask, that the postponement may be extended beyond the current exercise, because there are some municipalities that can allow it quietly because they have no debt and have high remnants, and this is another element to be considered. Madam Minister, with regard to the financing of local corporations, I would like to raise another point: the European funds. When European funds arrive, whether they are non-return funds or loan funds, they must have territorial permeability. One part will have to reach the autonomous communities, but another part we understand that it also has to reach the municipalities directly. They have capacity, they have confidence; the municipalities have been the only administrations that have generated surplus over the past few years. Their mayors and their mayors are responsible and, if you give them the chance to help them, they will. When you talk about agreeing in general terms, we can agree, but you too came with the motion of censure to the government and came to the elections proposing that you would reform the LRSAL. The LRSAL is nothing more than the amendment of the Local Regime Basis Act, which limited, as you have acknowledged, the realization of certain competences. You, before your mayors, have promised to change it, now is the opportunity to avoid situations such as those that are taking place, in which certain aid policies, for example, are informed favorably by interveners in a municipality and unfavourablely by other interveners in the municipality next door. Let us make it possible for harmonization, for there is no interpretation and for the law to be clear about what can be done and what cannot be done. Therefore, Minister, all I would like to get out of this question is that, at the end, the mayors, the councillors and the mayors who call us constantly can tell me: Ferran, I have listened to the minister and it has become clear to me; I have a calendar and I know what I can do and what I cannot do. We can't offer these mayors any more uncertainty. And with all my affection, I'm telling you not to rest on the FEMP. The EMFF has made some proposals to you, but you have a responsibility to say yes or no. Say it fast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u242	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u243	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Bel, I always find the intervention of your group very paradoxical, I find it paradoxical - and I say it with all respect and affection - because you always come to demand the fulfilment of our electoral programme, the fulfilment of the commitments that Mr Sánchez acquires in the investiture speech, but they do nothing to help the Government. You guys permanently if you don't profile, you're against it. You do not help anything; you did not vote for Mr Sánchez's investiture, you did not vote for the budgets that allowed continuity for the government, you did not vote for the following investitures again and you do not vote for the alarm decree today. That is so, you go up to the rostrum and demand compliance with Mr Sánchez's programme, and to me that - I have to say - whenever I hear it is paradoxical, because I say that if you demand compliance with President Sánchez's programme it is because you share a large part of President Sánchez's programme. And have you found any way to contribute, to tie your shoulder and to support any of the decrees laws that have been brought into this House, Mr. Bel? [[Applauds]] It is that they blame us as if it were the Government's fault for the non-compliance with the issues. Of course this government wants to change; this government wants to broaden the competition framework of the municipalities, this political party that supports the government, the United Podemos, wants to broaden the competition framework of the municipalities. You see the work that costs to build a majority in this House, usually not because you disagree with the ultimate objective that every project that is brought to this House, I am convinced that most Members today share that citizens have to order their exit from the situation of confinement in a gradual way and in a way that prevents the contagion, I am sure; what happens is that the issue is politically out of focus and what it is about is to play politically, with all the legitimacy of the groups, taking advantage of that situation as if the only responsibility for the health of the citizens is that of the Spanish Government and as if the rest of its lords had no responsibility for health, prevention, and the ability to adequately care for the citizens. Mr Bel, I believe that if there is anything that no one can teach the Socialist Party and the United Nations we can - primarily the political forces that are most historic within this last formation - be of municipalism. We have participated since the first day in the construction of democratic municipalities in this country, and we have been a political party whose only real force or capacity to transform reality for a long time has been through its mayors and mayors. Our party is composed of mayors and mayors, for the most part, by public offices in municipalities or that are in the parliaments or the rest of local entities. You asked me to put myself on paper, but it's that I don't need it, it's that they're inside our organizations and tell us the same thing that you get from WhatsApp or that you tell. We, the Government, are not an isolated entity from the rest of the life that goes on in Spain, we are intertwined in the life of Spain and if we step aside, we are fortunate to have political formations that immediately reorient us towards what must be the priority of the Government's action. This is the way this Government works and interacts. What happens is that sometimes statements are made that, with all due respect, Mr Bel, try to be more complacent than really analytical. You said: it is that the municipalities have had the capacity to have a savings, and now you can't tell what you can orient that savings because that savings is each one's assets. Man, that reflection would force you to think that the Government of Catalonia has no savings because it does not want to. [[Mr. Bel Accensi makes negative signs]] And that's not true, is it, Mr. Bel - you tell me not with your head -? No, that's just not true. There are certain competences, certain environments, certain needs of public services that mark the consolidation of public accounts. Basically, surpluses are generated in the municipalities, not by the will of the mayors, who know the needs of their people and who know that there are many who could attend; they are marked because the rule of spending prevents them from spending above that reference value. That is the reality of why surpluses are generated. [[Mr. Bel Accensi makes negative signs]] What not, Mr. Bel? Well, look, I don't know any mayors or mayors telling me that they have the money left, none. All the mayors and all the mayors tell me what they say is: I want to spend more money than I can spend and it leaves me neither the rule of spending nor the budget stability policy. I have always said that it is a bad so-called surplus or - it would give me the same - a bad so-called savings because it has not been a voluntary act, but caused by the need to have to consider the rule of spending as a limiting factor in the growth of public expenditure. If the surplus is activated, it does not compute the expenditure rule. If financially sustainable investments are made, it does not compute the expenditure rule. What this Government is doing when it exempts in certain legislative projects the rule of expenditure is to extend that framework of action to other initiatives that would be limited by the rule of expenditure. For example - you put it to me as a minor example, but to me it seems important - you can spend 20% of your resources - in this case it was surplus 2019 - above the spending rule, even if that is not financially sustainable investment. That's an exception to the spending rule. Can we continue to work in that direction? Certainly, Mr Bel, and I say this here: we must continue to work in that direction. And not only because this government has a commitment to flexibilising the parameters that make up the spending rule, but because there are even more urgent needs arising from the pandemic, which allow, advise and force that framework to be redefined, I would even say, Mr Bel, the competitive framework. We are ready to redefine the competition framework of the municipalities. Can local authorities assume greater powers than the law now allows them? Can they assume powers that the Spanish Government or the autonomous communities have at the moment? Would your group agree, Mr Bel, that the municipalities should assume greater powers, for example, that they were now in the hands of the autonomous communities? I'd agree. I would also agree with the Spanish Government's powers. Let's work on that. That's my proposal. Let us not divorce the competence of the area of resources, because that is what was done, in a somewhat crooked way, in the previous management. In the face of pressure from the municipalities to use the resources, what did Mr. Rajoy's government do? He took away powers from the municipalities, when because of their proximity, their proximity, their knowledge, they were willing to exercise a broad framework of powers. Let us open the competition framework of the municipalities, let us discuss it, with the help of the reconstruction plan, to a different extent, but let us discuss what role the municipalities can and must play in the coming years in order to contribute not only to the economic reconstruction of the country, but also to a better provision of services according to that proximity. And let us be generous to the rest of the administrations because, every time a competitive framework arises, there are many people who get nervous, Mr. Bel. I am glad that you sit down and that your political group is willing to study which competitive framework of autonomous communities can be passed on to the municipalities, because there is usually resistance in relation to that issue. I think it's a path we have to pursue. He was talking to me about what the municipalities can do or not, and the municipalities today can use funds in financially sustainable investments. [[Mr. Bel Accensi makes negative signs]] Yes, Mr Bel, we included it in the budget extension. The municipalities can use them in that part, but is it necessary, as Mr. Mazón said, to open this issue up to an increase in public works? Let's discuss it, I have no problem seeing in which area of investment, as if discussed here, in Congress, because it seems that this is what the minister wants to do. It is in this Congress that financially sustainable investments are discussed, where it is proposed to open up so that the municipalities can expand these investments. We discuss what areas the municipalities can contribute to the reconstruction of the country in terms of investments that can be significant. Let us talk about it, I tell you that there is a natural framework: the Reconstruction Commission; this is a natural framework. And then there is another natural framework, which is the meetings we are having with the FEMP; let's discuss it and see how it can be expanded. Can social spending be expanded so that it does not compute the spending rule? I share it, let's do it, let's put it on, because this government is going to start a new benefit - and it was told to its lordship -. Do you not believe, Mr Bel, that if the Government of Spain sets in motion a new provision aimed at the core of inequality, which incorporates a guarantee of rights to families without resources, we must redefine the competences that had been raised in those environments? Or are we going to do doubles? Or are we going to step on it or are we even going to get in the way? We'll have to talk about it in the hands of minimum living income. And the municipalities will have to play an equal role as the autonomous communities do, because social policy is shared between the three administrations. Let's talk about it in that framework. In short, what I want to say to you is that we all know the expectations, the need and the sensitivity that our mayors have, be of whatever political colour, because when they leave the city hall door they are told by the neighbors; nor is much more necessary, they are permanently surrounded by that reality. Let's do it among all of us. When I say we set the priority is because administrations cannot overlap in the use of resources. This is an issue that I have a lot of discussion with the Autonomous Communities. If the Government of Spain is providing liquidity to the business fabric, it is making an effort with the single taxes of all citizens. It is that citizens pay their taxes so that we distribute them among the different administrations and exercise our powers. And if from one Administration we are giving liquidity, do the other administrations have to give more liquidity or do they have to raise other areas of action where the Government of Spain does not arrive? Is that not respecting the competition framework? I think that is common sense, Mr Bel; at the moment we are, I think it is a huge common sense for all administrations to discuss what are the priorities, the best position of each to make use of those powers. Let us use the resources and do so with the ultimate aim of improving the lives of citizens. I therefore agree that these fiscal rules can be made more flexible, but let us do so in an orderly manner, that the various laws of local administration, rationalization and financing can be reformed, so that we can really get to know and give the maximum potential to local entities. Let us discuss it in this scenario, let us open it, not from the pressure, not from the reproach; from the serenity, from the tranquillity, because that is to work in a constitutional competitive framework that will allow us to be stronger and give better response to citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u244	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u245	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, without any kind of acrid and with the utmost peace of mind, I am looking at the House and I do not see any Member - perhaps Mr Simancas, I do not remember well and if we were all there would be few - who would vote for Mr Pedro Sánchez. You did not vote for Mr Pedro Sánchez when he was President of the Government, I did, I voted for Mr Pedro Sánchez in the motion of censure and I heard his speech; a speech that I liked and, although there were people who thought that we should not vote, we voted for it. What happens is that the months went by and that speech didn't come true. And when you bring the budget here - the first budget, the only one you have brought - you do not think of the majority of the motion of censure. No, they bring the budget here like lentils, or take them or leave them. And that was so, we never at any time had any dialogue. We do not support the investiture, of course, we do not support it because we have the right - I believe - to ask for our demands and to count on the background. Therefore, minister, lessons, none, and do not fail to the truth, I say it to the benefit of inventory. He says: They have not voted any royal decree-law. I can tell you what I have been responsible for in this House, Minister, and, if I remember correctly, all the real decrees economic laws we have voted in favour, all of them, and in some of them being critical, but all of them with a vote in favour. Therefore, if you want to build your speech and you are left with Members, you yourself. They'll know how they build the majorities. Well, they have alternatives - it has been seen - in Citizens, who are not sure if profitable, cheap, but, well, this is the parliamentary game, minister. You will know, but you will not hurt us because we have the right to make our demands and if we agree, because we vote, and if we do not agree, we do not vote. In the end, you and I, you know who's gonna judge us? The citizens in the next elections and we will each be responsible. On the subject of substance, you have come up here and have not responded to the mayors and councillors, you have responded to me as a Member and without much encouragement to get my parliamentary support in future initiatives, but in any case you will know. Madam Minister, also without acrid - and if I am wrong I will go up to this rostrum and recognize it, but if you are wrong to go up and recognize it -, at this time the sixth additional provision of the Budget Stability Act is not extended. At the moment there are no financially sustainable investments; there are no, Madam Minister. No municipality can make financially sustainable investments in relation to the 2019 surplus because it is expected to be extended. They did not extend it and it is one of the aspects that they are negotiating with the EMFF at this time. Therefore, do not disqualify us in all that we raise because surely there will be something in which we are not mistaken. And if you have to claim the municipalist tradition of your party - which I don't want to question because I have lived it too - as you can understand, you can't ask us that we haven't had this municipalist tradition for a long time, because it comes along - and I don't want to compare - this municipalist tradition. In any case, I would like you to use these five minutes to clarify when you are going to bring the measures to this House to approve the possibility of applying the remaining treasury. Are there going to be limits on the application of these treasury remnants? Will there be any possibility of financially sustainable investments? Are these financially sustainable investments going to be expanded? Is it going to be possible to increase the 20% for social spending that many municipalities at the moment - and when I say at the moment it is today - have practically consumed? They have consumed 20% and have already implemented it, the decrees of budgetary amendment have already been signed in the municipalities. Yes, yes, Minister, because the reality is very hard and action has to be taken. I'm telling you with a certain knowledge of cause. So, Minister, use these five minutes and see if you can make any of these specifics. And when you ask us to cooperate, we will cooperate, but this - I repeat once again - has a bilateral function. He doesn't just have one address, he's got two addresses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u246	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u247	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Bel, I wanted to convey something, also without any acrid; by the way, the phrase always inevitably reminds me of a former leader of my party. You, when you come up to the rostrum, complain that the Government cannot fulfil its commitments. But how long this government has to live, Mr. Bel! You said: is that you promised to change the Basic Law - it doesn't matter, because it has different names; we know what we're talking about - municipal competences. When has this government had the opportunity to exercise that majority, Mr Bel? In the previous government - which you say you voted and that I did not vote for it; I was not a Member, correct, I did not vote for it, but not because I did not share it, which can give that false feeling, but because I was not a Member - you withdrew the support nothing more presented the draft budgets, not even after a year after the motion of censure, Mr Bel. From there you have not voted so that this government can conform, and that is the reality, Mr Bel. That's the reality. You voted for the motion of censure and I recognize it, and that's it. From there, the Government could not continue its programme because it had no draft budgets. The government, Mr Bel - you know it perfectly well - brought not only a proposal for social justice, for fiscal justice, which I believe you shared - I believe, for the statements that you made - but also a consideration of Catalonia which allowed you for the first time to respect what was marked by the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia and, despite that, Mr Bel, you voted against it. That was the reality. There's the project and there's the figures. Despite that, you voted against it. [[The lady]] We can't cheat here, Mr. Bel. I can even understand the context, what I do not understand is what derives from it, but you sometimes have, from my humble point of view, the false feeling that allowing the Spanish Government to carry out certain tasks harms their legitimate interests - I do not share them, but they are legitimate - with regard to the political situation in Catalonia in Spain. That is all I can explain to myself, Mr Bel, because there are absolutely reasonable measures that are put on the table and often the debate is led by environments that have nothing to do with the content of these projects, and you know that because we have sometimes participated in these areas of negotiation. That you have adopted the economic measures? I recognize him. I was referring to the alarm decrees, when you are aware from the Government of the Generalitat that an order must be maintained at the exit of the population's confinement. They're aware of it. I do not know if you think that the rest of the ladies and gentlemen are going to exercise that responsibility and that there is not going to be a catastrophe. The question would be: if the rest of the ladies and political groups did not exercise their responsibility, would you assume the responsibility for people going out to the streets without order or concert, Mr Bel, with what that would mean in terms of contagion, with what that would mean as a waste of work done previously by the citizens? What happens is that it is trusted that the rest of the political groups are going to take the chestnuts out of the fire and, while the political discourse can be maintained, where it seems that supporting the Government of Spain is damaging the interests of Junts per Catalunya in Catalonia. That's what I think, Mr. Bel. I understand that you say no, but that's what I think. The question would also be, when these questions arise: do you think that a government led by the People's Party would be a better government for Catalonia? I understand you don't. Yes, they voted for the motion of censure; they did not vote for Mr Sánchez's investiture twice, Mr Bel. By that I mean that one thing does not take away the other two that happened later. Believe me, I think it often has nothing to do with the ability to share legislative projects, but it has to do with that. I see the framework you have commented on in the concept of financially sustainable investments. Obviously, they are executed; at this time it may be those coming from the previous year. There is no problem and I told you at the beginning of my speech. Does the Minister, the Government, have any problems in expanding the framework for financially sustainable investments? No, I don't have a problem. Is it a problem for the minister to exempt from the rule of expenditure social expenditure which is aimed at combating inequality, at caring for families and at enabling reconciliation measures? I answer you in a very clear way, as you ask me: no, I have no problem talking to you. Does the minister undertake to see how the elements of the fall in revenues from public transport, which affect to a large extent local entities and also autonomous communities, can be alleviated? The answer is no, I have no problem, I want to discuss it, I want to agree and I want to do it in a global framework, of course I want to do it in a global framework! because my claim will be naive, Mr Bel, is that we each do so with our powers and resources, some more limited than others. Obviously, there are needs or pressure on public services, more important at the moment on some administrations than on others, and I say two: Social Security and Autonomous Communities. And I say that, and they are not direct competence of my management, but I say that there are two subsectors that are much more pressured than the rest. Do I care about that situation? No, I make transfers to autonomous communities and I make transfers to Social Security. That's why I'm telling you that it's not as simple as saying that each of your resources, if you have them, that you use them and that you don't have them to look for life. No, Mr. Bel.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u248	Minister, I'd have to finish, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u249	I'm done, Madam President. I believe that we all have enough time to see that, within the framework of the reconstruction committee set up in this Congress, we can agree on what priorities can be set so that the municipalities can contribute in relation to the challenges we face as a country, so that the autonomous communities can do so, so that the General Administration of the State can do so. I believe, Your Honor, that this is what the citizens of us expect right now, that we will be able to coordinate, to agree, I believe that this is also what the mayors expect right now, with whom I empathize, with whom I understand and with whom I understand. It makes no sense that, given certain resources, they will not be made available in the fight against the pandemic in cases where it has to be because of social inequality or in the struggle, in the drive for economic and social reconstruction. My interlocutor is the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, I consider him a valid interlocutor, but that does not take away so that political formations can also abound in this kind of debate. I am convinced, Your Honor, that sooner than later we will be able to identify the most appropriate measures to ensure that all administrations can contribute to this general interest. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u250	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u251	We continue with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 17/2020 of 5 May, approving measures to support the cultural and tax sector to address the economic and social impact of COVID-2019. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Culture and Sport has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u252	Thank you very much, President. With the venom. Ladies and gentlemen, I bring to this House for validation the Royal Decree-Law 17/2020 of 5 May, approving measures to support the cultural sector to address the economic and social impact of COVID-19. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, on 11 March the World Health Organization brought an unprecedented health crisis to the international pandemic, which has spread extremely rapidly and has affected more than 4 million people around the world. I know that we all feel it is an inescapable and profound duty to pay a sincere and respectful tribute to those who have not been able to overcome this cruel pandemic, to the nearly 28 000 victims that have left us in our country, as well as to the close to 320,000 human beings who have lost their lives throughout the world. The extraordinary risk and aggressiveness of the pandemic has led us in these weeks to take a series of measures to deal with the situation immediately. The state of alarm has allowed the guaranteed limitation of our mobility in order to combat the virus effectively and at the same time has been accompanied by a set of decisions taken in the Council of Ministers and in this House to alleviate the very important economic and social impact of COVID-19, also and in a particularly acute way - we are all perfectly aware - among the cultural industries. Following the health priority, the Government has at no time lost sight of the reactivation of our companies and sectors, taking measures to maintain the productive fabric in order to minimize impact, facilitate economic recovery and protect jobs. I am convinced that this has also been the will and willingness of all public administrations, autonomous communities and municipalities. The temporary cessation of activity and consumption also reached the culture. It is one of the particularly damaged economic sectors. The cultural and scenic spaces were drastically paralyzed and with them the activity of a professional group already characterized in some of its sectors by an extraordinary structural fragility. Ladies and gentlemen, from the government we consider it essential to implement the measures contained in this royal decree-law, and we think this because of the uniqueness of the cultural sector, but also because of its per se, qualitative value, in itself. Culture is one of the pillars of our social and democratic rule of law. We know that the weight of culture in the Spanish economy is significant, with a contribution of 3.2% to the gross domestic product. In 2019, the volume of cultural employment amounted to more than 700,000 people, 3.6% of total employment in Spain. The public authorities must promote - as mandated by the 1978 Constitution - access to culture and its universal enjoyment. That is why we must protect and take care of the protagonists of the cultural fact. Culture is a backbone of our democracy. It is our obligation to ensure the survival of cultural structures and to protect employment and businesses operating in the sector. They are people and they are values, rights and principles. I'm sure they share this appreciation with me. From the Ministry of Culture and Sport we have worked intensively to alleviate the impact that this unprecedented crisis is having on the cultural sector, aggravating a situation characterized historically and in many cases by precariousness. We therefore begin to adapt the economic measures of a cross-cutting nature adopted on 17 March to the specificities of the cultural sector through different adjustments and then continue with the adoption of more concrete measures, aimed in this case at alleviating the situation of extraordinary and urgent need that passes through the cultural sector and to help in the process of transition, called de-escalation, towards the new normality. Taking this context into account, the present Royal Decree focuses on supporting businesses and cultural workers, with specific measures to respond to the needs arising from the exceptional situation created by the health crisis. Thus, the circumstances of extraordinary and urgent need required by article 86 of the Spanish Constitution are clearly present. Given the general interest on which the measures are based, the Royal Decree-Law is undoubtedly the most appropriate instrument to ensure their achievement. Allow me now, ladies and gentlemen, to begin to analyse the main contents of the decree whose validation is subject to your consideration. First, the Royal Decree-Law deals with general measures to support companies in the cultural sector. The Government has put into operation the ICO guarantee mechanism for the financing of companies, which is successfully meeting its overall target of EUR 80 billion, already taking into account the last decision in the Council of Ministers last Tuesday. However, they have not reached companies in the sector and other economic sectors of the country with the desired intensity. For this reason, it has been essential to make use of a financial tool specialized in providing guarantees to small and medium-sized enterprises in the Spanish cultural sector, the CreA Mutual Guarantee Society, to which we provide funds totalling EUR 20 million. This amount actually involves mobilising EUR 700 million in guaranteed loans for the cultural sector, soft loans or under optimal conditions. Each cultural sector will have access to a minimum of €40 million. Thus, the book, the music, the beautiful arts, the performing arts, the dance, also the flamenco, the theater or the circus, of course the cinema, all will be able to obtain immediate and specific liquidity. No one doubts the relevance of performing arts and music in the cultural sector, both from the point of view of the business perspective and of the professional fabric and of the dissemination of culture. In line with this, we have set out a set of important measures for the sector. Special emphasis is placed on the introduction of an extraordinary support system for the maintenance of its structures and for the development of performing and musical activities or cultural projects. These grants, worth EUR 38.2 million, will be implemented by Inaem, the National Institute of Performing Arts and Music, following the competitive competition procedure and the principles of advertising, transparency, objectivity, equality and non-discrimination. In addition, public procurement legislation is amended to allow cultural professionals to receive advances and compensation in the event of the postponement or cancellation of actions already contracted with the public sector, with a limit of EUR 50 000. Cinematography and the audiovisual arts, in turn, have a multiplier effect on jobs and technical jobs in the sector and have the capacity to project our languages - the different Spanish languages - and our culture beyond our borders. They also attract foreign investment and are a demand for tourism. This part of the industry too, as it cannot be otherwise, receives support measures. Film production has a singularity that makes it particularly sensitive to this situation, since two of its fundamental phases, such as filming and the premiere in the rooms, have been completely paralysed all this time. Precisely the production aid granted by the Ministry is based on the fulfilment of a number of milestones, such as, among other things, the start of filming, the qualification of films or their commercial premiere in cinemas within certain time limits, so that any failure to do so necessarily leads to failure to do so. Given the inability to meet these obligations in the current context, the Royal Decree extends the deadlines and makes it easier to comply with this set of requirements that aid producers had to meet in 2020. In this way, we avoid a fearful and secure situation of non-compliance in the chain which would result in the impossibility of carrying out the projects in the best conditions or the need for the return of the aid. Furthermore, in order to generate liquidity in the producers, part of the aid granted is advanced before the start of the filming - this only benefits the writers - and it is allowed to include among the eligible costs those directly derived from the impact of the crisis. In addition, we include a temporary exemption from the commercial premiere obligation in cinemas until the exhibition rooms are back in operation. Faced with the accumulation of films that cannot be premiered in rooms when they had planned, they are allowed to be premiered commercially through providers of other communication services or platforms, without losing their status as a film worthy of support. At the same time, we provide for the direct granting of aid amounting to EUR 13.2 million to cinematographic exhibition hall holders, whose activity has also been suspended as a result of the crisis. This aid is intended to revive the sector: on the one hand, to alleviate the costs of implementing a risk prevention plan for its workers, while ensuring the protection and safety of the public at their reopening, expenditure such as the disinfection of spaces, the acquisition of protective material, the installation of bulkheads or the placement of specific signals, and, on the other hand, it is also intended to cover the costs related to re-opening and promotion campaigns and the return of the public to cinemas where possible. Moreover, with the aim of promoting private financing in the audiovisual industry, a number of regulatory changes of a fiscal nature are carried out. In particular, tax incentives related to film production of feature films and short films are significantly increased, which will promote greater competitiveness of the sector both in the domestic and international environments. This will allow in the near future to attract more international productions and shoots, encourage co-productions and increase the activity of the audiovisual industry in Spain, giving the right, in the case of feature film producers, to major deductions, provided that at least 50% of the base of the deduction corresponds to expenses incurred in Spanish territory. In the case of international productions, we reduce the limit from EUR 1 million to EUR 200 000 for animation productions and processes of special digital effects, because the current limits are not sufficiently competitive compared to other countries and we must not miss this opportunity, because precisely the animation and special digital effects can continue to take place from home and we are a world power. It is a job that has not stopped, positive to generate employment, with special participation of young people and linked to new technologies. The royal decree-law also covers the sectors of book and contemporary art. Firstly, we have created an extraordinary aid line of EUR 4 million to ensure that the structures of the book-keeping sector and the book supply chain are maintained. These aids are mainly intended for independent bookstores, whose temporary closure has led to a drastic fall in their turnover which could lead to their cessation. Ensuring the survival of independent bookstores is of vital importance to the sector, as its special fragility affects the flow of economic activity throughout the chain: authors, editors, distributors, translators, etc. They are, to a large extent, the wheel that enables the whole editorial activity to be started. The Directorate-General for Book and Reading Development will implement this system of aid, which will be granted in accordance with the competitive competition procedure. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, aid will be added to the reduction in VAT for electronic books and digital newspapers from 21 % to 4 %, an old demand in the sector that is now being implemented. Secondly, the Royal Decree-Law incorporates extraordinary grants worth EUR 1 million for the promotion of contemporary art, which are articulated in two strands. On the one hand, we promote the development of digital innovation projects that promote the diffusion of the visual arts, artistic creation, communication and international diffusion, and, on the other hand, we grant an extraordinary endowment for the acquisition of Spanish contemporary art. Its purpose is to promote the internal market for contemporary art, which for the first time is granted a specific amount independent of the rest of the budget of the Directorate General of Fine Arts, from which it dedicates to the acquisition of pieces for the public collections of the State. The recipients of these measures include visual artists as well as art galleries, critics and curators. All this without prejudice to the fact that they can also opt for liquidity, at least EUR 40 million, and that they are safe recipients of the tax benefits also approved in this royal decree-law on sponsorship. Another group of measures concerns activities subsidized by the Ministry of Culture and Sport that have been cancelled as a result of COVID-19. Thus, it is possible to pay the eligible costs incurred by the beneficiaries of such aid. Similarly, in the field of sport, scholarships and grants to athletes linked to results achieved in competitions that have not been held are extended, thus preventing them from being deprived of these scholarships and grants. To validate this royal decree-law, ladies and gentlemen, is also to improve the conditions for the participation of civil society, solidarity and philanthropy, which are essential in the revival of the sectors of culture and sport at this time. To this end, as they anticipated with regard to the aid of contemporary art, we raised 5 percentage points the deduction provided for donations, amending to this effect Law 49/2002, on the tax regime of non-profit entities and on tax incentives for sponsorship. In the same vein, we also proceed to declare a series of events as events of exceptional public interest. In addition to the symbolic value they have, this legal figure allows for significant tax benefits to be applied to taxpayers participating in the financing of the above-mentioned events, in accordance with the above-mentioned law. The events are as follows, which also fill us with hope at this time thinking about many of them in the coming year: the Berlanga Plan, launched on the occasion of the centenary of the birth of the universal Valencian filmmaker; the Alicante 2021 Programme, the departure of the World Cup of Sailing; Spain guest of honor at the Frankfurt Book Fair in 2021; the Plan to promote opera on the street, the Royal Theatre, or the 175th anniversary of the construction of the Gran Teatre del Liceu. Finally, the deadline for other programmes considered to be of exceptional public interest and which are, in particular, the following: the Programme for the preparation of the Spanish athletes of the Tokyo Olympic Games, already by 2021; the fifth centenary of the expedition of the first round to the world of Fernando de Magallanes and Juan Sebastián Elcano - surely you like this especially, Mr. Díaz -; Andalucía Valderrama Masters, and the year St. Jacobeo 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree is aimed at rescuing people and facing a serious socio-economic situation caused by COVID-19 in the world of culture. In an area other than culture and sport, we also consider it necessary to incorporate some measures that I would like to point out to you in order to give a full explanation of the content of the decree, such as the elimination of the fork parameter in the university public price system for the 2020-2021 course, in order to promote access to public higher education for all students. Also, an amendment to Law 9/2017 on Public Sector Contracts, to facilitate the exercise of the functions conferred on the organs of the State and of the autonomous communities or to improve some provision on procurement contained in Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 of 17 March, the first of economic and social measures after the first state of alarm. I referred earlier to the difficulties faced by the collective of authors and artists in accessing an unemployment benefit or a retirement pension. In order to protect the collective and its most vulnerable members, the copyright management entities, with which I will be reunited in the coming days, created long ago the assistance funds. The Royal Decree-Law strengthens this protective action, enabling for two years the general assemblies of these entities to increase the percentage allocated to the realization of care activities. The main commitment of this Government in this crisis is to leave no one behind. I am convinced that we all share this purpose, a moral, political and legal duty in this pandemic context. People, ladies and gentlemen, must be at the centre of our policies. They will agree with me that it would be pointless to oppose measures to protect cultural workers who are going through situations of real helplessness. Indeed, this royal decree-law that we bring to this House today creates extraordinary access to unemployment benefit for cultural workers who had not been protected by the mechanisms established to date. In fact, it is an old historical demand linked to the status of the artist. The intermittent nature of his work causes many of them not to be discharged at the time of the state of alarm statement. The urgency of this measure is such that, without it, more than 6,300 people, artists of public shows, would be left without any coverage. The overall amount of the set of measures articulated in this Royal Decree-Law amounts to €76.5 million, in addition to those derived from the tax incentives mentioned, in what we consider to be a remarkable effort of solidarity with the world of culture at complicated times of resistance and survival. A fully justified effort in line with the high regard that the Government has for the culture of our country and that I am sure it is shared by the whole of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I am finishing by saying that culture feeds the soul - or the conscience for the laity - but also the body, raises the spirit of the people, but also the gross domestic product of the countries. Culture is consumption and is industry. Article 27 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states in its first paragraph that everyone has the right to participate freely in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to participate in scientific progress and in the benefits that result from it. And in these difficult weeks, in these difficult times, that universal access to the works of human creation, the best expression of our dignity, has been essential. The films have entertained us in the long days of confinement, the books have helped us to overcome the anguish by our relatives or friends, the music has comforted us in the unbearable loss of some loved one or of our 28,000 compatriots. Culture, in all its manifestations, has accompanied us in solitude and made us stronger, made us wiser, made us better. In its second and final paragraph, the same article of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that everyone has the right to the protection of his or her moral and material interests on the basis of the scientific, literary or artistic productions of which he or she is the author. That the flow of culture does not stop, that it flows wider, that it demands that we protect creation, that we make it possible and sustainable. In the balance of both paragraphs we find the cultural progress of our country. We must strengthen the industrial fabric of culture because, in addition to all that said, it is an intelligent investment in the future, and that is a task for all, because culture is for all. I understand, do not worry, that the task of the opposition is to criticize everything that does not suit them and even what does suit them. I am sure that, like all human works, this decree that we present for validation today is not perfect, it is not the rule of absolute justice of Judge Hercules, I would even say it is not fortunately. But these are emergency measures in a context in addition to crisis and scarcity, and their value lies in urgency. If we wait for the many people who will be able to find support in this decree, shelter or impulse, then we may be late, it may be too late. Think about it when you vote, because the vote of your ladies and gentlemen today is essential for all these people. For all these reasons, indeed, in my opinion, for all these good reasons, today I request your support for the validation of this royal decree-law. Eskerrik asko, many graces, many graces, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u253	Thank you very much, Minister for Culture and Sport. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. He has requested the use of the turn against the VOX Parliamentary Group. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr López Maraver. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u254	Good afternoon, President. Thank you very much. Members of this House, to rise again to this rostrum in this tragic situation in which we live, in which this Government has wanted us to get used to seeing hundreds of people still die and leave destroyed families with, as I said a few days ago, such a great exercise of responsibility that I hope to be able to live up to it. The Government is advancing its ideological agenda at the expense of looking elsewhere at the still chilling figures and keeping the Spanish people under arrest, but do not doubt that this tragedy is going in spite of them for life, even after it. Today we come to talk about a real decree that says it is about measures to support the cultural sector, but that it does not cease to be another mediocrity in the characteristic line of this Government. A decree that only cares for its grantees who make ideological propaganda on television, on social networks and in cinema with infumable bodrios that try to impose ideology and that, because of their quality or because they are not interested, do not even premiere. Those nearly 70 million euros that we are told that he has allocated directly and another 700 million euros in the form of soft credits to a few would have come very well for the whole culture and not just for those of his friends. How illusory we were many that we thought might have gone to help the excellent health personnel who do not understand ideologies and who are those who are saving lives and not their star plan of improvisation that is closer to being allied with the Wuhan virus than to ending it. However, do not forget the members of the Executive, as Master Espartero said: 'More horns give hunger'. And you're the auctioneer of hunger for the rest of the culture. You, and Mr. Rodríguez Uribes, who endorses this decree which solves little or nothing the fundamental problem of our culture, have left out absolutely something that is the essence of Spain, of its peoples, of its peoples, of its fields, of its fauna, of its rural world, of its big cities, of its history, of its tradition and of all its ideologies: the bull and its noble art, the bullfighting. This decree commits itself only to some and leaves out the vast majority of professionals on foot, who represent the social and cultural fabric and who are the ones who suffer their structural fragility, and more in this circumstance in which all cultural spaces remain absolutely paralyzed. They fix the granting of direct subsidies, as you have said, to the supporters and lenders of the audiovisual sector, in this case to the Audiovisual Mutual Guarantee Society, in order to finance the cultural sector with millions of figures that were already charged yesterday to fatten up in the Council of Ministers and that in many cases they do not even remain in the Spanish industry. This is a 'they cook it, they eat it' in every rule. I ask you, Minister, why do you not apply this measure to all self-employed people and companies that have applied for ICO funding lines and allocate a budget line to pay the opening fees? Why not lower VAT to all economic sectors? In something you are right, Mr Rodríguez, first life goes and then cinema goes, although now I don't know what happened to him, it must be the scare that Mr Echanove gave him, which seems to have changed his mind. Don't forget that the cinema entertains and that hunger makes horns. Please feed the whole culture. It seems that in this decree they show that they want to pay the payroll to all Spanish workers, but nothing further from the reality, you just want to pay some and leave all the others, Spanish employees and self-employed from all sectors, completely abandoned. Let's repeat it again: pay the payroll and leave. Minister, it seems that you have already contented your cultural allies by selling them the idea that culture is an essential asset of a universal nature, but that does not support it even the greatest of cynics. An essential asset is access to food, access to health and access to education. Culture is a fundamental good, I do not deny it, of a universal nature, that is what it is, and if this Government wants a clear example of what culture is, it has, among others, the art of Tauromaquia, which has been attacked by the left and little or nothing defended by the crowded right. For this reason, today VOX uses this turn against appealing to its raison d'être to defend it firmly and with tesón. To Mr. Iglesias, who does not listen to me but I hope that he is listening to me, I will tell him that I am glad that he is greatly afraid that bullfights will be claimed as something cultural and that he does not like them, but I remind him that the bullfighting and the raising of the brave bull are protected by law as a cultural heritage, approved through popular legislative initiative, therefore, yes, it was the will of the people that was culture. I will tell you more, I do like bulls, and not just me but millions of Spaniards who even vote for you, but it is also true that in this parliamentary group, in this party, and even among our voters, there are people who do not like them, and yet they respect the freedom of those who want to enjoy it. Look closely, Mr. Iglesias, also liked his longing Ernesto Che Guevara, who enjoyed several bull evenings in Madrid in the bullring of the Sales, in the middle of Francoism - what a paradox life has!-. Tauromaquia is wealth, cultural heritage rooted in the roots of Spain with ecological, productive and even legal vectors of our reason. It is culture in the highest and therefore more real sense of the word, which is that of involvement with the homeland itself. A historical and real involvement towards the arts of all kinds and creation, an involvement in the rural and ecological world for many centuries, and it is an essential bastion in front of Spain that many call empty and that is now more alive than ever. The festival is made up of people who did not long ago coincide in their transhumante character with the people of cinemas and theatres that sweep Spain from north to south, along the same paths, in the same inns, in the same Spain of cities and villages. The actor would see the bullfighter in the square and in the same way the bullfighter would come to see the last play. Human relations, the exchange of ideas, creativity, freedom and thought helped to develop a common culture that today, Minister, means Spain; a culture that translates into thousands of popular celebrations in all peoples, with cultural expressions and traditions around the bull: The bous al carrer, which seems that they do not matter to the lords of the Republican Left of Catalonia, or the encierros, which do not end in Pamplona - these do not matter to the protera of Bildu - but that they multiply throughout Navarre and not only throughout Navarre, but throughout Spain, in Cuéllar, in San Sebastián de los Reyes, in Sanjuanes de Coria. Do you want me to continue? The Madrid Student Residence, a place of free thinkers, would not have been possible without the economic contribution of Ignacio Sánchez Mejías, bullfighter and writer. From that residence, the travelling theatre of La Barraca, by Federico García Lorca, which met the bullfighter so much to coincide with them in every corner of Spain, started one day. 'The bullfighting is probably Spain's greatest poetic and vital wealth, unbelievably wasted by writers and artists, mainly because of a false pedagogical education that we have been given and that we have been the men of my generation the first to reject. I think the bull party is the most cultured one in the world today.' Those were the words of Lorca in one of his last interviews, which, heard today in this Parliament, should cause us to reflect on our profound ignorance and mistreatment of this part of culture. But it is that this government is only interested in Lorca's bones to continue his discourse of war-civilistic memory. This Parliament will have heard of the film Viridiana, icon of the cinema of free creation in Spain. Listen carefully, Minister, because without the bullfighters that film would never have been shot. Buñuel came from his Mexican exile assisted by a communist bullfighter. The Dominguín family made available to the filmmaker the La Companza estate for the free rolling of the sequence of beggars and, after the filming, faced with the problem of how to pass the tapes to France, the bullfighters took it away. Juan Luis Buñuel traveled by train with the rolls of the film to Barcelona. There, to hide it and reach the border without being seized the film, he wrapped the rolls between the coats of arms and was guarded by three bullfighters, pickers and swordmen. With the complicity and help of the bullfighter Pepe Dominguín, the negative arrived in Paris and later won the Golden Palm at the Cannes Film Festival. I'll tell you more, gentlemen of the government. You turn your back on Spaniards whose constitutional rights have been violated on a permanent basis. Tauromachia was unconstitutionally banned in Catalonia. That's what Sentence 177/2016 said. However, their constitutional right has not been restored. The bad faith of the authorities and administrations of Catalonia and Barcelona, your accomplices, has used all kinds of triquiñuelas so that this right is not restored. Is there anything more shameful, ladies and gentlemen, for a democracy than banning a ruling by the Constitutional Court? Do not be surprised by your ignorance of your lordships; just reflect on why this forgetfulness of the world of the bull. Spain is a lot of Spain and is a creator of art and culture. He's shown it throughout his history. We are practically at the head of the musical production stage produced throughout Europe, especially in the summer months, with musical events, tours, outdoor theatres, festivals and many other performing arts, and you well know that the budgets of each of them can be several million euros. The game they propose is an absolute toast to the sun. Apply a general tax reduction to all economic sectors and not just to ideological dye schemes. Its proposal to amend the company tax in this decree once again discriminates against most of the cultural sector in relation to audiovisual production. If you want to increase the deductions, propose a law of real sponsorship, allowing private entities to support this cultural sector and at the same time to make it easier for investment to truly reach the creators. Again you take advantage of it to return to ideological sectarianism and to sexual and linguistic discrimination with these deductions. The amount of such aid, together with the other aid received, may not exceed 50 % of the budget. However, if the production is directed by a woman, it may be 75 % and if it is rolled entirely in any of the co-official languages other than Spanish or subtitled, the deduction shall be 80 %. Gentlemen of the Government, today more than ever our society has shown that men and women are equal before the law and above all. What would have happened if our doctors and health personnel had applied this discrimination that you want to sell us on equal terms? Because because they were women, doctors would have invested 25% more in their health than because they were men, and if they had asked for help in Catalan or Basque, they would have fought for their lives with 30% more effort. Please stop looking for the territorial and gender struggle, because the class struggle has already lost it and reason will make you lose this too. Ladies and gentlemen, please truly rescue those who really need help and do not water with ill-groomed alms of little use. The workers of dance, lyric, music, circus, theatre, writers, booksellers, painters, artists, sculptors and even cinematographers - cameras, sound technicians, helpers, taquillers, accomodators - expected this decree as water of May and has arrived them as pedrisco of the whole year. This is a treatise of favor for some and a genuine defachation for others. Please make an emergency law that suits all cultural sectors and then we can help them. In the meantime, they'll always have us against. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u255	Thank you, Mr. Lopez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. The joint parliamentary group, Mr García Adanero, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u256	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the minister was saying that no one should be left out, no one thrown out, but the decree leaves people of the culture thrown out, and I think he is aware of that, because the bandage was finally put on before we told him things. We will support the decree. We are going to support it as we have supported other decrees, because we understand that there are many positive measures, but we believe that it is long overdue. It is long overdue and we will therefore also vote in favour of the adoption of the decree as a bill. Apart from the issues that are in the decree, there are many collectives who have addressed all the members of the Commission to tell us that they are not represented, and I believe that they should also be included because they are also workers and people to be cared for. Moreover, as the spokesman for VOX said, the world of the bull must also be cared for. The difference between others that have been left out and the world of the bull is that this has been done with knowledge of cause, and it has been done with knowledge of cause because in this sense the Government is very sectarian. There is a part of the Government that is clearly contrary to everything that the world of the bull represents. Regardless of the opinion of the bull party and although it can be said that a part of that world is included in the decree through the artists - which is true, it can be so - there is a much larger part of the bull world that stays out. I think it is important to include them, to take them into account and even to name them in the decree itself, because what has been intended is to ignore them. That cannot be, because, as I say, we like it more or we like it less, regardless of the opinion we each have, they are people who work in Spain. They are Spaniards whose work is that and so they earn their living and, therefore, they have the same right as the rest of the Spaniards to receive help from the government at this very complicated time. Therefore, let us clearly introduce into this decree all that represents the world of the bull. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u258	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, first of all, I would like to say that New Canarias will support this royal decree-law without any restriction, because it seems to us that it acts on an effectively strategic sector in the whole state and in a very unique way - and it is little known - in the Canary Islands, because the activity of the cultural sectors in the Canary Islands is particularly broad. I can only refer to chapter III, which deals with the audiovisual sector, for a matter of time, and in order to try to defend the need for this royal decree-law to be processed as a bill to introduce some issues that we think are fundamental. The audiovisual sector in the Canary Islands has become a strategic sector, a key element for the internalisation of the Canarian economy, for the generation of employment, and it is a sector that has a set of tax incentives differentiated according to our Economic and Fiscal System and the status of the outermost Canary Islands. This in practice means a set of deductions that are of a larger nature than those of the rest of the State, because it is the only way to compete in the conditions of economic difficulty that insularity generates. This is something that is recognized in the REF Act, in the 14th additional provision, and as this royal decree will amend Article 36 of the Companies Tax Act it is very important that when this applies it is understood that it is necessary to amend the 14th additional provision of the Fiscal Economic Regime, because if we did not enter into legal uncertainty, which would be absolutely dramatic for an absolutely emerging sector in the Canary Islands thanks precisely to this differentiation that tries to compensate for the serious difficulties that the Canary Islands have in competing in this field. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u259	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much, Pilar. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the last word.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u260	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I start with a quote from Mr Lorca, who said: a people who do not support their culture is dead. I would like to say, Minister, that we share that culture is the soul of peoples, but from our perspective this royal decree is insufficient. We are going to abstain and we are going to support processing as a bill because the sector needed a lot of things already before the pandemic. Why is it insufficient? I don't have a lot of time, I'm throwing at you two ideas that are key to us. On the one hand, it is necessary to modify the requirements for access to the benefit in order to accept compatibility either with other public aid when it does not exceed the minimum inter-branch wage or with other work activities. And on the other hand, it leaves out of the sector people like the one who works in sound, production, assembly and many other essential figures who are excluded from the general regime of artists. But, you have said - and we are very much in favour of this - culture goes far beyond certain specific products, what is consumed and who can consume it, and even from certain markets for cultural products. From here we wanted to thank all the people who make music, cinema, art, literature, circus and theatre, who manage halls, who make popular culture, who manage cooperative facilities and, ultimately, who democratize our country's culture and vertebra. We would also like to thank the Union of Activists of Catalonia and the Union of Actors and Actress who are defending the trench of art. In addition, we recommend, Minister, a manifesto which drew quite a few people out of culture a month ago asking for universal basic income as the best cultural policy. They said it would be the best cultural policy possible, which would radically improve the conditions of practices and artists and cultural products. Clearly you're not in this line. We wanted to end another appointment - I will do it quickly because I know that I am spending time, President - of Montserrat Roig, who says that the normalization of culture is to dignify the work of the producer, not to sublimate it and then make him starve to death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u261	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u262	Thank you, President. Minister, this is indeed the time to propose a series of urgent measures and solutions to deal with the damage caused so far by COVID-19 and those which it will continue to cause in the future, in order to ensure, among other things, the survival and sustainability of workers in all artistic expressions and in the sector. But first of all, it is relevant to highlight the initiatives launched by creators, artists and cultural projects during these days of pandemic, because if something has become clear in this crisis is that in the toughest moments people need reading, literature, poetry, dance, cinema or art to keep up with the mood. It is in emergency situations that we recognize what is indispensable for us to live in. Therefore, eskerrik asko, thank you all for making available to us from the networks cultural contents, the fruit of your life, work and effort, and sharing it with all and through different platforms. Today we discuss the Royal Decree-Law 17/2020. In general, our assessment is quite positive, and I point out several reasons to support it. First, it has launched action lines through grants and has made use of its protection system, unemployment or unemployment, to care for people in the sector who have seen their income go to zero. They were the first to suffer the consequences of COVID-19, it was right versus help, and this is something important that other autonomous governments do not understand or have not wanted to understand. The decree contains measures for the financing of the cultural sector, measures to support the performing arts and music, measures to support cinematography and audiovisual arts and, among other measures, also for the book and contemporary art sector, which are fine. However, we must also point out the shortcomings, which have them. As well as the measures to facilitate the financing of the cultural sector and the support of its workers through the direct granting of subsidies to the Audiovisual Mutual Guarantee Society, bonds, cater to the different professional sectors, the same is not true with regard to the extraordinary access to unemployment benefit for artists in public performances. There the decree leaves many professionals in the artistic and cultural fields unprotected, since it only applies to those who are discharged into the General Regime of Artists in public shows. Mr Minister, there are many, many technicians, the assistants who have the contractual characteristics, the intermittentness, the temporality, the same consequences also of this crisis and, however, cannot benefit from these aids. We trust that this decree will be used as a bill, so that we can make the necessary contributions to improve the flaws it presents. However, the overall assessment is positive, although it must be borne in mind that the Spanish State is far from other European countries, such as France or Germany, which have taken action to deal with the crisis without abandoning the cultural industry, and that is something that is not being noticed too much around here. I must also point out that in this comparison there are some European countries that better cater to their differentiated cultural realities, to those diverse cultural expressions that enrich - and in the Spanish State there are a few - and in languages other than hegemonic Spanish. In this decree there are no specific measures that address the socio-linguistic and cultural diversity of non-state nations. And this is the example of the spirit of cultural recentralization, whether consciously or unconsciously, but the result is that. We regret that this has not been taken into account, and that is another reason why we cannot vote in favour of this decree; nor are we going to do it against, because, as I have already said, we believe it contains positive elements for the sector and for the cultural industry, in general, and the picture is rather precarious already. But it is not acceptable that, once again, the measures designed solely from this kind of Castilizing Myopia should be considered, and the cultural diversity existing in the Spanish State should not be taken into account. In fact, only the theme of co-official languages is taken up in cinematographic production, something that has been highly regulated for a long time and not to collect it would be an obvious setback. We are clear that creation in Basque deserves special attention and, in addition, I would like to make a nuance; it would be useful to establish with the sector a planning, a differentiated elaboration for the projects in Basque, especially in the artistic disciplines in which they share markets and spaces of expression with other languages, and which do not have a differentiated circuit in Basque, for example, in the performing arts, which also in other languages of the State live in great precariousness. We would have liked to have been consulted before publishing this decree, because we would have faced it with the greatest constructive spirit. Because cultural experiences - it is bound to say - and cultural imaginarys help us to seek our place in the world, feed our inner world, effectively; help in the understanding of the world, promote exchange as well, and create spaces for fun; invite us to investigate and make us feel members of a community. The Basque is a people rich in values and cultural heritage as well; and therefore, we believe that the Spanish Government has once again lost an opportunity to recognize itself as a rich and diverse Government, which can value other cultures. I would like to end with a request which I would like, in addition to you, Minister, to be shared by the majority of this House in order to make it a reality. Let us declare culture as a necessity. Let's put culture in the place it deserves, which, as this pandemic has shown, is one of the pillars for our lives. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u263	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Guille. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u264	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen of VOX, I think that all you like about Lorca is their love of bulls, because of everything else I don't know if I'd be very proud to be quoted by you. [[Applauds]] Ray Bradbury said it's not necessary to burn books to destroy a culture; just make people stop reading them. The American writer was limited to books, but the same could be said of cinema, theatre, exhibitions, museums, concerts. The death of culture does not have to be by murder, as has often happened in totalitarian regimes, some distant and others very close, but it can also be by starvation, by letting it die by not giving it the nutrients necessary to continue living. We all took on the importance and need of culture as the basis of our society - well, I thought we all took it, but today I realized that no - and no one will question - yes they have - not only their need, but their basic socializing and enriching function. Now, when it comes to betting on it - and betting is to commit and committing is to equip it with the necessary resources - is when some begin to whistle on the road as if it were not with them the thing, and that is the beginning of the end. Therefore, assuming the social importance of culture, we must take a step further, understanding and enhancing the economic importance of the cultural industry, culture not as desideratum or generality. The concrete and palpable form of cultural activity has an unspeakable productive component, it is also an economic activity and, as such, the crisis of the COVID-19 has left it now hurt to death. The impossibility of being able to film, produce, act, exhibit, play or represent, linked in turn with the impossibility of consuming, watching a film, listening to a concert in a room, visiting a gallery or buying in a bookstore, have made the economic activity that generates the culture urgently need help, which, if not public, will not be. For this reason, and for the benefit of society as a whole - not only of the direct recipients of these aids - we consider it necessary, although surely short, to provide all kinds of aid which is presented to us in this decree. We must also remember that the autonomous communities are giving their own aid in this area. On the other hand, we cannot make it clear that, regardless of the urgency of this decree and its content, there is no doubt that many activities and ways of creating or disseminating them are precarious, with difficulty in sustaining themselves, in need of economic push, because the cultural fact itself, the artistic fact, lacks normality or stability because its characteristics are so. What to say in a situation like the present. That is why, in essence, this decree also reflects the legal, fiscal and social protection vacuum in which there are many professionals in culture and art; it reflects the need for coverage that, unfortunately, we do not yet have. And I also believe that not everyone is included in this decree, but those who are are. He said it reflects the need for coverage that unfortunately we still don't have. The status of the artist forged its bases in this house after many hours of work and is a fundamental tool in which we all agreed. Minister, it is urgent that this legal, fiscal and social tool see the light. I am convinced - and not only myself, the beneficiaries and protagonists of the cultural sector have made it known to us - that, if the artist's status were in force, I do not say that this decree was not necessary, but that many of the shortcomings that are attempted to be solved by this decree would basically be addressed. It is urgent, necessary, and it is also a solution. We are not going to talk again about what you, Minister, know and your ladies and gentlemen too. It is difficult to talk about the rights of art and culture professionals without taking into account the circumstances of the cultural ecosystem; without employment or sustainable economic activity, the sector as a whole can hardly be sustainable. In this regard, it is a question of generating quality work opportunities in terms of working conditions and equal opportunities. As the Basque Observatory of Culture has done, the special characteristics of the work of artists and cultural professionals, basically the eventuality of the work and the heterogeneity of the collective, are at the root of the various problems. You know perfectly well what I'm referring to, so I think it's time to swell your tooth to this matter. You have degenerate the content of the decree, so I am not going to go in and talk about the measures - I am not going to repeat it because they have been clearly stated - although there is one question that I would like to comment on, and it is the part that corresponds precisely to the endowment given to the Audiovisual Mutual Guarantee Society. In Euskadi we have Elkargi, which I do not know why it could not be included, since we believe that it has sufficient efficiency and has enough name to be able to carry out this series of issues, and would also have been grateful to the sector itself in our country. Therefore, I say to you that we understand the need for this decree for all the reasons set out above, for the measures that they contemplate in the cultural field, but these measures are only part of this decree, because this decree does not cease to be a quasi omnibus decree, since, of the eight additional provisions and thirteen final provisions that integrate the articulated text, only have direct relation to the cultural sector its first additional provision, dedicated to the guarantee of State for works of cultural interest, and the first final provision, amending Law 27/2014, of the Tax on Societies, regarding deductions for expenses for cinematographic productions carried out in Spain. Undoubtedly, it is an interesting, timely measure that was already called for in the recommendations of the subcommission of the status of the artist and that in addition my country's regulations, both in Álava, Vizcaya and Guipúzcoa and in Navarra, already addressed, with different percentages and nuances, but contemplated it, which shows that without crisis or pandemic by means of some we already bet to encourage film productions to enhance the economy. The rest has nothing to do with its statement: its direct relationship with the economic situation arising from the COVID is scarce, its urgent need is questionable and its inclusion in a norm of these characteristics generates a high degree of distortion, such as the provision relating to the amendment of the Law of Universities, which modifies the system of university public prices; there is also the one referring to the Fundación España Sport Global, which, by the way, was created by Decree 15/2020...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u265	Mr. Agirretxea, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u266	...validated fifteen days ago and it has to be modified. I have been an observer and follower of Umberto Eco's opinions many times throughout my life, saying that in some way the mass culture is mostly produced by groups of economic power in order to obtain benefits. I do not anathetize those things; it seems very good to me: if culture can also produce, you can earn money and distribute wealth, welcome be. So, we don't have to be afraid of that. We'll always be with the people of culture. Society needs them. Culture is never created by decree, but it takes decrees to give basic conditions for them, the creators, to be able to create culture. We will therefore vote in favour, even if the appropriations do not seem sufficient to us - the measures do, but the appropriations do not - and we will ask for their processing as a bill. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u267	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Catalina. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u268	Thank you, President. Minister, good afternoon. The advance that the vote of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group is in favour of the adoption of this royal decree, although it is true that, as other speakers have previously said, there are many issues to improve and we will also vote in favour of its processing as a bill. I have to tell you that we have seen with some displeasure the delay of this royal decree. An environment of almost anxiety was generated in the sector that saw everything fall - the public was disappearing due to obvious issues - and the Government was not reacting. For those who believe that this affects few, those who are part of the cultural sector, I will give you some figures that you have already given, Minister, but I will point out one more fact. In addition to the contribution of the cultural sector to GDP of 2,4 - 3,2 if we include what affects intellectual property, in Spain there are currently some 710 200 jobs linked to culture, of which 68 % are employees. Most of this sector, as I have told you, depends on an audience, but an audience that is confined and that right now is not going where the gentlemen of this sector are working. Moreover, for the most part, there will be a limited number of elections and it does not seem that the collections will go back to the extent that we would all like them as we are going to a situation that is not the same as what we are coming from. The decree is late, I've already told you. Italy, France and Germany have taken action before us, but, well, that is in line with almost all the measures the Government is taking throughout this crisis. I wanted to point out that the existence of the aid which you have determined, in particular the specific aid for cultural enterprises, is a good thing, since, because of its characteristics, many of them were unable to access ICO's aid and the existence of lines of credit for the film exhibition is also because this sector has been severely penalised by this situation. It is very important that they point out about the exhibition of independent cinemas, which have a very high vocational component today and that, if they were already wrong for everything we all know, imagine the situation in which they are now. The same can be said of the bookstore sector, with special emphasis on independent bookstores, many of which are specialized and would lose that fabric, apart from the drama for them and for those who are fond of reading specific books and who we often go to these bookstores. There are things that we don't like about this royal decree, in fact, there are some that we don't like anything, like they put here a topic that doesn't paint much, which is the Law of Universities and eliminate university forks. Let the minister of universities come here and explain it, he has been before you here and could have done it. Another issue is the impulse to the patronage they claim, which is well-intentioned. Raise the deduction 5 percentage points, but leave the maximum base still within the IRPF, with which it is possible, and if this pushes into something, the patronage will do it quite shyly. For this I want to make you an offer. They have previously told him to work in a law of patronage and we, the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, offer him directly a law of patronage. We have registered it, it is in the register of this house and it is a very ambitious law, much worked with the sector and contemplates from the micromecenation, through the volunteering, to the classical patronage considered as such. In addition, it touches on a question that is fundamental and that we talk little about when we deal with issues of culture in almost all areas of politics: this law also opens up to science in the spirit of that third culture that John Brockman speaks of, in which it is so important to know that the National Episodes were written by Pérez Galdós as to know the implications of Watson and Crick's discoveries with respect to the human genome. All this can go hand in hand and be in the same law. We must unite both worlds. On the other hand, this law is more ambitious than what you have proposed in this royal decree. We propose a deduction of 50% of the contribution in the case of micromecenation and small amounts of the whole, because it can encourage people to collaborate in restoring a painting or in financing a short film with small amounts and that this is reflected in their income statement. Likewise, Minister, this law opens up an important channel of civil society towards the cultural sector, which would not only make sense now, but would open up an immense window of opportunity for the next time. Another of the issues I wanted to point out to you, which the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party has already told you, is the development of the status of the artist. You know that in this house a very important work was done regarding the status of the artist. People who are loved by you and loved by me, such as your colleague, José Andrés Torres Mora, of the Socialist Party, or popular like Emilio del Río, or Eduardo Maura, of Podemos, or Félix Álvarez, of my parliamentary group, who under the chairmanship of the Marta Rivera Commission did a job that I see today more difficult to achieve in the current political landscape. But it is already done, it has not been lost, we can move forward on that issue. So, we're going to support the royal decree, we're going to process it as a bill for everything that's left out, and now in the reply I'll announce a couple more questions because I'm running out of time. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. There's no replica forecast. I'm telling you to be conscious. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u270	Thank you, Madam President. The Ministry of Culture has taken a long time to correct its initial total disregard for the cultural sector, and although with some delay, it seems to us positive that a specific package of measures with funding lines and support for the maintenance of cultural structures and employment will be put in place. Although the powers in cultural policy correspond to the Xunta de Galicia, from which, by the way, we continue to demand determined action because the so-called Cultural Revitalization Plan cannot be considered sufficient, it is true that the aid now being implemented by the ministry, in our opinion, is not sufficient either. For example, credit guarantees and lines of credit are once again prioritized in the face of lost grants and, in addition, the unemployment benefit for artists leaves many people who, due to seasonality, would already have enjoyed that benefit. VAT is not generally reduced to culture, a measure which would be very positive for the revival of cultural consumption and which is also an almost unanimous demand on the part of the sector, both Galician and State. It is also pending to clarify what is happening with the 2020 festivals, as a clear suspension has not been established within a time frame defined and articulated at the same time compensation measures, which leads to the organizers living in uncertainty. We consider it necessary to clarify also the temporal framework of articles 4 and 14 of the Royal Decree-Law and its applicability to contracts or convocations of subsidies subsequent to the Royal Decree of the state of alarm that are processed or resolved once the latter is lifted, foreseeing possible future rebounds. For this and other reasons that I do not have time to specify, we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u272	Thank you, Madam President. It is not clear who exactly the phrase is, but some attribute to Millán-Astray that well-known and disastrous phrase: when I hear the word culture, I shake my hand at the gun. Today a political heir of his has not put his hand to the gun, he has been more moderate and, as he did not want to talk about culture because it bothered him, he has told us about something else that has nothing to do with it, which is what he wanted to talk about here, which is about the bulls. The other day I quoted Chesterton and some conservatives got a little nervous, and to continue like this today I will quote Vargas Llosa. He has a curious book about the life of Juan Carlos Onetti in which he says that what really separates animals from humans is the ability to fictionalize, to tell us history, that we are free because we can tell ourselves stories and because we can put ourselves on other roles and that that is also what develops empathy, the ability to put ourselves on the role of others, in lives that we would not have lived but that we can imagine. These days we have endured because we can tell each other stories, because we watched movies, because there were series, because we could read books or listen to songs or concerts from people who selflessly made them online. But there has been a paradox. While that was happening, while artists and creators of culture were more present than ever in our lives, they were in a more precarious situation than ever before, they were more unprotected than ever. We told him that this was a cry from the sector, we told him that it was an emergency, I told him here in this rostrum on 9 April, and you told me that it was indeed a government priority. It was a priority and forty-one days later they brought the decree. It's late, but we agree. We are going to support it, but we are going to support it as a law because we believe that there are some things that are inexcusable and missing. It has already been said that here there is a report, which cannot be left in a drawer, which made the subcommission of the status of the artist making recommendations so that the workers of art and culture did not live permanently in precariousness. It has already been said, and I share it, that it is absolutely incomprehensible that invisible technicians should remain outside this decree in access to unemployment benefits: tram drivers, sound technicians, light technicians, make-up workers... It makes no sense and I announce that we will make an amendment to get them inside. The last question. We owe ourselves an honest and urgent debate for which there is never time but which is always a priority on why in Spain we cannot value our culture, why in Spain making culture is a sport of risk. We'll all applaud the Goyas, but then the one who wants to dedicate himself to culture we tell him what luck in life. If Italy, France or Portugal have been able to have a national cultural model - in our case it is plurinational - that recognizes the creators, that it cares for them and that it values the culture produced, we do not understand why we cannot have it. It's a priority for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u273	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] Thank you so much. Finally, Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u274	'They have, that's why they don't cry, 'lead the skulls. / With the soul of charol / come along the road. / Jorobados and nocturnes, /... order / dark rubber silences / and fears of fine sand'. Civil Guard Romance, Federico García Lorca. Minister, in addition to a fundamental right - you have said so - in addition to an essential good, UNESCO declared that culture is a cross-cutting element in the Sustainable Development Goals on the 2030 agenda. The 2007 Freiburg Declaration also speaks of culture as a fundamental right that cannot be taken apart from the rest of rights. Without public cultural policies, there is no human rights; without human rights, there is no progress. Well, of linguistic rights, of audiovisual taxes, of digital content, we do not speak, but, judging by the reaction of the Ministry of Culture of the Government of Spain, culture is no longer a cross-cutting element nor is it present on the agenda, it is not a right, and as a button shows. In a state of alarm during which culture has turned into society to alleviate the effects of confinement, with massive interdisciplinary proposals from poems on the net to concerts on Instagram Live, pictures or illustrations that came to put colors to the loneliness of so many people - because culture is individual, but culture is also an element of social cohesion -, creatively and for free they have offered all these activities, and the cultural sector has even carried out a strike, a two-day blackout, to protest not for the actions, but for the statements of the Minister, which were a declaration of principles. And the Minister of Finance had to come to her aid to dialogue with the sector, because if the Government of Spain has arrived late and badly in this crisis, you, at the head of the Ministry of Culture, who later and worse. It has taken ten weeks, Minister, to bring this decree; ten weeks to have specific measures to mitigate the effects of the virus in a sector that is already structurally battered by the virus of those who do not believe in culture, they do not realize its transformative role, that it represents an element of economic dynamism and how culture should be allocated what culture contributes to GDP. I focus on the royal decree, I'll be very brief because I almost don't have time. The measures come to cover the dossier, but they are not real emergency aid as the sector needs. All artists, but also the intermittent self-employed, such as technical and auxiliary staff, must be part of these measures. The text has aroused reactions such as - I quote - perplexity, indignation or stupor, which are reflected in the various letters that the professionals in the sector have sent us. I will not speak of the small letter, but give clear instructions to SEPE, please, who does not know how to solve requests from artists because they do not know its general regime. Meet the demands of musicians, actors, dancers, because the cases they report and find themselves in a state of maximum vulnerability, and they activate, once and for all, the status of the artist. We will abstain from this decree because we actually have an amendment to the whole. This royal decree is a misconception regarding the powers of the Generalitat de Catalunya. We have them completely transferred in the field of culture and yet the Minister has not contacted the Council of Culture either to agree on these actions or to know what we are doing from the Government to at least work cooperatively.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u275	Mrs. Borràs, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u276	Yes, I'm done, Madam President. That's right, this royal decree-law includes an alarming issue that has alerted everyone about sport, I mean the creation of the Spain Global Sport Foundation. You have a certain fixation with this name, but the result is the same as always, scandalous, and also with Irene Lozano, who was in charge of Global Spain, who was dedicated, also with our money, to criminalizing independence for the world by the hand of Josep Borrell. Second parts were never good, and that is the omen of this foundation: the use of sport for Spanish nationalist ideological propaganda around the world.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u277	Mrs. Borràs, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u278	Yeah, I'm done. To finish, we return to culture. No one ever discusses it, but no one ever prioritizes it. The decontainment of culture is opposed to an image of the most eloquent: full airplanes; theaters, museums, libraries, empty galleries. They misunderstand the ministry, minister, misunderstand resources and bet on culture in a real way, not fake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u279	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u280	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, minister. Late and bad, this is how your government has acted throughout the crisis of COVID-19, but you, Minister, have acted even later and above all worse. First life, then cinema and culture, you told representatives of the cultural sector, trying to paraphrase Orson Wells. A whole declaration of intent and a demonstration of how you and your Government understand culture, as a second sector, as the last thing to think about. It is true that you then apologized, and this honors you, but with your words you despised thousands of people in this state who are dedicated to the world of culture, a sector already precarious before the pandemic, with few public infrastructures at their disposal and with public budgets far below what would be desirable. The proof of all I say is that they do not approve any measures in relation to the cultural sector until 5 May, when the state of alarm and, therefore, the end of their work, is decreed on 14 March. It is, therefore, a real decree-law adopted late, with very generalist measures, little courage and with many doubts about the real scope that it will have on the sector. That's why we're not going to give him our support. Many weeks earlier we have already put forward a series of proposals to respond to the requests of the cultural sector, but, as we have become accustomed to in recent weeks, your Government has been deaf to the proposals of the parliamentary groups. And taking advantage that you are here today, we launched several proposals that should enter into this royal decree-law. The effective date of the cessation benefit should be 14 March, the day on which the state of alarm was decreed, and not for the purpose of the date of application. The requirement of access should be listed days and not days of actual activity with discharge in Social Security. In addition, it should apply to all artists who meet the requirement to have at least 20 listed days during the past year, without the obligation to be in high or high assimilated in the General Scheme at the time of applying for the benefit. The system of absolute incompatibility of the benefit with another type of income should be alleviated; some workers in the sector are engaged in some other part-time work, such as teaching, and this prevents them from receiving the cessation benefit. Another proposal is that access to this extraordinary benefit should not entail any consumption of the period that the artist has contributed for the purposes of future unemployment benefits, as provided for in Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 in respect of workers included in an ERTE. We would also like to propose that SEPE open a specific window for the sector, as there is a lot of confusion. We are told that this afternoon SEPE has published a guide for the performance of the artists' unemployment. We come from some sector, such as that of musicians, for example, a lot of concern, because it will be difficult for them to access the benefit, because they ask for the contracts of the performances and many of them go to work and service on the day of the performance; it should be reviewed, minister. As for the dance and circus sector, for example, some system must be set up so that artists who do not live together in the same family unit can rehearse together in order to prepare for the shows to be held when the sanitary conditions are the right ones. Nor is it clear to us what happens to the technicians of light and sound, to whom this royal decree does not refer at any time. As for the book sector and the small bookstores - you have named them -, the neighbourhood ones, the village ones have made and are making real efforts to stay and not close. We understand that the book should be considered for all purposes as a basic and essential asset. At the end of this last reflection, we want to tell you that it is urgent that work be started again to draft and approve once and for all the status of the artist. The spokespersons for the PNV and Citizens have also said so. We no longer have an excuse to dilate it further, because there are some measures that cannot be implemented without this statute; for example, that of understanding, in the case of some artists, creation as a real period of work. We could continue and continue: to maintain the cause of force majeure beyond the state of alarm, to agree with the sector on the timetable for the reopening of spaces and equipment, to promote a campaign of confidence for consumers to attend theatre and cinema, to understand culture as a cultural good of first necessity and, last but not least, policies to promote the co-official languages of the State. We must start important debates, Minister, on how we put post-COVID culture from the institutions; surely today is not the day and we can begin to do so at your appearance next week in the Committee on Culture. We'll point out some elements. A reflection, for example, makes no sense to open the subway and we cannot talk about the reopening of theaters or cinemas; it makes no sense, and if you think so, you have not listened to the sector. Culture must not only be seen as a very important economic sector, it is; we must understand it as an essential element for social development and the establishment of high standards of well-being. Unequal access to culture is one of the main factors of inequality in our system. If we want to build a new world, we have to start rethinking what did not work in the previous world. From the institutions we have been thinking about policies for cultural industries for many years from the point of view of the final product and we have spent little time thinking from the point of view of consumption. The subsidies will not save the creators and artists the exemptions or the impact aids that we will take through this royal decree; they will save a new conception of the promotion of culture that connects the cultural offer with a population that wants to consume culture, but that can often not allow it. I'm done, President. We understand that in the same way that we believe that all citizens should have access to public health, they should also have free access to culture. It is up to the public administrations to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. [[Pause.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Catalina. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs García Puig.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u282	Hello, very good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Today is my first speech in plenary since the state of alarm was declared, and I would like - I think it is obliged - to send my deepest condolences to all the people who have suffered losses due to the COVID-19 and a thank you to all the citizens, but especially to the people who care for us. I would also like to address a few brief words to the VOX Group: I hope this world of hatred that you promote will not come true, I really want it all over the world, including yourselves. Please reflect. You play with the fragility of people and there is nothing more bad. I don't know what the future will hold for us, but one thing I do have clear, and I bring here the words of Salvador Allende just before he dies, a figure to recover, much more in these days: I have clear one thing, that history will judge them. History will judge how at a time like this one of tragedy for humanity you crave hatred instead of fraternity, and that is exactly what fraternity is going to find in front of you. Another thing I can't help but say is that until they accept that justice is done to Lorca and all those killed and murdered by his ideological ancestors, please don't dare use it in their cheating arguments. I now turn to the royal decree that concerns us, the royal decree of culture. I would like to begin by reading a poem by Argentine poet Juan Gelman, a very brief poem entitled Condecorations: 'They decorated the Lord General, / they decorated the Admiral, / the Brigadier, my neighbor / the police sergeant, / and will ever decorate the poet / for using words like fire, / as sun, / as hope, / among so much human misery, / so much pain without going further'. Well, Juan Gelman is also a figure not to be forgotten these days. Faced with the barbarity of the Argentine dictatorship, which murdered a son and his daughter-in-law and stole his granddaughter, he always claimed the power of culture, the power of the word to guarantee dignity and memory. I am sure that we will all remember this confinement; we will remember with whom we have passed it or in the absence of whom we have passed it, but we will also remember all the works that have accompanied us: the books we have read, the series we have seen, the songs we have heard. Juan Gelman accompanied me, and by reading this poem I could not help but think how current it is in this poem, how important it is to decorate our poets, our filmmakers, musicians, actors, actresses and, also, those most anonymous people who have already been quoted: technicians and techniques, for example, whose names are mostly unknown, but who do an essential job. But the best decoration, the only one, if I hurry, is the right to a dignified life, and that is precisely why this royal decree goes, to put the necessary measures to ensure that the professionals of culture can lead a dignified life in the midst of the blow of this pandemic. There was no doubt that specific measures were needed for culture, because of the specificities of the sector. It has already been said: many cultural professionals were unable to access the generalist aid already approved. This is a government that listens and has also listened to the cultural sector, which clearly claimed that specific measures were needed. It is fair to give the Government that listening and listening capacity, but it is also fair to acknowledge that this royal decree would not be here today if it were not for the mobilization of the cultural sector. We are faced with a series of urgent measures not to leave anyone behind at this difficult time. The cultural sector has already been particularly hit in the previous economic crisis, and has in fact never recovered. That is why they are urgent measures, as I said, but not enough, and this is something we have already talked to the Minister of Culture and therefore there is a commitment to continue working, to continue putting short-term measures on the table. In the long term, we must work on cultural policies that allow us to leave behind an endemic precariousness of the sector and advance equality in a sector that still has many differences in terms of social class or gender, for example. And I say that we have to move forward on the rights of women cultural workers on a social justice issue, as is obvious, but also because this is the only way to guarantee access to a diverse culture, and I ream this word a lot: diverse. Culture is a right - it has already been said here in this rostrum - as is education or health - it is reflected in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights - but precisely because it is a right it must be ensured that this culture is as diverse as our society is. Beyond shortsighted views of culture that have been shown to have some right-wing groups, I think I am not mistaken if I say that we generally share socially that culture is an essential good; these days we have been able to see more if it can be done. Culture has accompanied us in very difficult times. Marguerite Duras said: Loneliness also means either death or the book. Well, many of us have been saved by culture these days, but culture is also an instrument that allows us to articulate critical thinking. It is a tool of individual and collective transformation and investigation; something vital always, but much more in these times of crisis in which we find ourselves. As I said, this is only the case if culture is diverse, and for this it is essential to have a healthy and non-precarious cultural ecosystem, and that is also what this royal decree is about, because these measures are aimed particularly at the most vulnerable sectors of culture. One example of this I am saying is, for example, the case of the book sector. The Royal Decree enables €4 million in aid to independent bookstores, which are obviously the ones that will be most affected by this stoppage due to the pandemic. Writer John Updike said bookstores are lonely fortresses that illuminate our streets. This Government is showing a firm commitment to the rich map of our country's bookstores. Here we have a first step and we have to continue working in the same direction. I would also like to take this opportunity to make an appeal to the citizens: let us buy in the neighbourhood bookstores, in the small bookstores of our peoples; their survival depends on all of us. I'm done, President, just like I started. Those who crave hatred, the enemies of love, are also the enemies of culture, because they precisely know that culture is a powerful instrument of reflection to build a more supportive, cohesive and just world. The feminist Audrey Lorde said: Poetry is not just a dream and a vision, it is the architecture of our lives, it lays the foundations for a future of change, a bridge that crosses our fears of what we had never been before. Let us take care of our culture, protect its diversity, think of it as a fundamental right and commend our poets, give them a dignified life. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u283	Thank you, Mrs. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Cruz-Guzmán García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u284	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, touch her again, Sam. It is well known that this phrase is not pronounced in Casablanca; however, it has passed into history as a memorable passage from the film. The creation of bubbles is not alien to the world of culture. Only by supporting the serious and rigorous media and without the need for any form of censorship on the part of this Government will we be able to bring them to an end. For this experience of repeated lies is why I want to stop in a phrase of yours, Minister, the unfortunate phrase of your first appearance after the state of alarm, just a month after that fateful March 8th: First save lives and then save the cinema. Minister, it is not true, do not establish a dilemma that does not exist, do not use the tragedy of this pandemic to justify the abandonment of the world of culture. It is not a matter of choice: saving lives or saving the economy, saving lives or preserving freedom, saving lives or supporting cinema. In our group we are more to add than to exclude: health and economy, health and freedom, health and culture, because precisely culture has given us hope in these strange days of confinement. The musicians have transported us in the only vehicle in which we could get up to travel to other countries, cinema and theatre have made us enjoy the long afternoons at home and we have immersed ourselves in the books to, for a few hours, forget this sad tragedy, worthy of a good screenplay. It's been medicine for the sick and family. Mr. Uribes, I don't know if culture is capable of saving lives, but I assure you it is capable of healing. Focusing on the real decree-law that is brought to Congress today, we will overlook some defects in form, such as referring to the economic data of 2017 - it must be that they feel more comfortable and secure with the data of President Rajoy than with those of his own government - or bring on cover matters of other ministries, such as the alignment of the forks of university fees, which will be death for many of them, but we will stick to the cultural content. If Sánchez himself has said that he has no plan B, this ministry has no plan A, and he reflects it with this rule, which comes late and is insufficient for a sector that, as the minister has said, accounts for 3% or more of our GDP. A state plan is needed to activate the culture in which to frame these aids, but also others in the medium term, and above all to define protocols that have all museums in check. Not even state-owned museums are capable of opening up and all autonomous governments are at stake. We need a consensual plan in our Commission, where you will be the last of the 23 ministers - never so many weighed so little - to attend. That is the importance this Government attaches to culture and parliamentary debate. Cultural companies need urgent liquidity, and that is why we see positive access to credit, but how will it ensure that small companies, publishers or bookstores do so through an instrument traditionally focused on the audiovisual sector? The best way to inject funding into cultural enterprises is not to requisition the surplus of the municipalities and let local governments be able to promote new cultural projects and new aids, in short, to pay artists for their work, which is always much better than requisitioning municipal money to expand the subsidies. We applaud the measure of the extraordinary performance for artists, which comes a year late and to which the self-employed will not be able to benefit. Moreover, this Government runs counter to its own principles. How you remind me of the Marx brothers! Let no one stand behind us, sell us, and it is you, the government, who have deliberately left behind the more than 10 000 Taurino professionals, who are already receiving the denial of this benefit on their mobile phones. Tauromaquia is the great one forgotten in this norm when it is referent of the brand Spain. Our holidays - from the Sanfermines to the Fallas, on their land, and from the April Fair, on my land, to the Murcia Fair - are not understood without the Taurino festivities. Protecting them is protecting our culture, but it is also protecting emptied Spain, the lidia bull and a unique ecosystem that worries us so much. We ask you, Minister, to defend the second mass spectacle in the country, to protect the more than five million fans, because this will also protect our economy. Do you know what the economic impact of the San Isidro Fair would have been? About 80 million euros. He might be hours defending the reasons to protect the national party, but I'm going to sum it up in three words: comply with the law. Once again its ideology and that of its partners is imposed on the compliance with the Spanish legislation that we have all democratically given ourselves. We highlight in positive terms fiscal improvements, insufficient but on the right track. They allow the audiovisual sector to be competitive and attract investment, but we deeply regret that your Government has excluded the video game sector, a rising sector that involves more than 7,000 direct jobs and will play at a disadvantage with other countries. They're still in time to rectify. Just as shy are the improvements to the Sponsorship Act. Public-private collaboration is going to be essential to lift cultural activity, and that is why we had proposed courageous measures and the creation of the national sponsorship award. We ask you to include the Year of Deliberations in events subject to tax benefits, but you have made deaf ears. We're on our way. Without a doubt, it is a great budgetary effort in aid, but insignificant for the publishing sector or for contemporary art. On what basis and for what purpose have they made this distribution? We will demand maximum transparency. The truth is that we were hoping for more creative measures; it was enough to take those that the sector has worked and brought to it or even some of our own, such as having public television for the promotion of Spanish culture and not for the promotion of government parties, which is what is being done right now. In short, the anxious royal decree-law is much better and our group will continue to work on it if it is processed as a bill, for which we ask you speed. We shall abstain, Minister. Much work remains to be done, and for this reason, as we proposed on 14 April, we see it essential to enable the months of July and August. We are glad that other groups are joining. Give example, work and let us come to work. I'm done. In spite of everything, Mr Uribes, I must thank you, because with your delay, your abandonment and your lack of ambition with this rule you have been able to empirically demonstrate what our group and most artists believe. Culture is neither socialist nor communist. Culture is not left-wing. Culture has no ideology. Culture is the one who cares for and respects it, and will have in me and in my group the best allies to defend it, because it is also through culture that we will be participants in our longing freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u285	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cruz-Guzman. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Catalina. For the Socialist Group, Mr Lamuà Estañol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u286	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, be my first words of affection and recognition; of affection to those who fight the disease and, in particular, of affection and solidarity to the relatives and friends of those who have lost this fight. I would also like to address words of appreciation and gratitude to all sectors, from health to food, from transport to safety, which help and protect us. Among these sectors, I would like to express our appreciation and gratitude to so many Spanish creators and artists for their efforts and generosity since the first day of confinement. Culture has suffered from the pandemic crisis like so many other sectors of our country, it is true, and it has also had to face some specific problems that require a special response - such as the one provided by the royal decree that we are now examining - that are more consistent with its needs. But culture has done more than resist adversity. At a time when we feel locked up by confinement, culture has continued to stand to bring the message of freedom to every home. This effort by the cultural sectors is an old message that culture in Spain has repeated on many occasions. Faced with difficulties, culture is growing and reaffirmed. It is necessary to remember this message not only to convey our collective gratitude, but also to remember the structural and necessary role of the cultural world at all times. Culture was already one of the biggest hit by the 2008 crisis; in fact, we can say without fear of being wrong that it has never been completely remade. In many sectors precariousness and other more specific problems have turned many workers in the cultural world into precarious. From the shared awareness of this unfortunate situation of our cultural sector and in this very House there emerged a spirit of agreement among all the political formations that forged the vision of the necessary status of the artist. Certainly, we still have a way to go to see in its entirety the measures envisaged by that document, but we have made a good stretch of the way and now, as another time of difficulty, we must be more determined than ever to move forward. This royal decree provides new limbs that will allow us to help rebuild the fabric that has broken the crisis we suffer, but also to continue the task of strengthening, progressing and recognizing the cultural sector in our country. We have heard at this plenary meeting some criticisms that are as predictable as they are unfair. Reference has been made to the protests to the Minister of Culture. True, there are those who have criticized the minister, some will think that rightly and others we will think that without it. But if it has been possible to criticize the Minister of Culture, it is because there is a Minister of Culture; with other governments there has not been.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u287	I'm sorry to interrupt you, Mr. Lamuà. As in other plenary sessions, I ask you to join in the recognition of all health professionals. [[Prolonged applause, with the House set up]] Thank you so much. Go on, Mr. Lamuà.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u288	Thank you, President. As I said, with other governments there has been no minister of culture, there is only when there are socialist governments. It is very important that those who have to explain the needs and aspirations of the cultural sector be a minister and not a secretary of State, because the secretaries of State do not sit on the Council of Ministers. That is why it is important that there is a Minister of Culture, to receive criticism, yes, and to give solutions. And here today the Minister of Culture brings many of these solutions; all of them may not, of course, but the fact is that the cultural sector has recognized that what we bring here today is necessary and valuable. I propose to your ladies and gentlemen that in the midst of this crisis, which is a crisis of life, of real life, let us be pragmatic, that we focus on the solutions, the possible ones, the immediate ones. Those who complain that he reacted late will not ask if they knew how to see the problems before and better, because the answer is to have a record of the House's initiatives, and no. Yes, his pressure would be more credible if today, ladies and gentlemen, they voted in favour of this royal decree, because works are love. A point I will, how easy it is to shoot with the gunpowder of the king knowing some that your vote in the royal decree will not be blocked. But today culture needs us. That's why I'm going to save myself and I'm going to save you polemics that don't make sense in the good days and much less in the bad days that we've had to live and manage public representatives in this legislature. I'm saying this so some spokesman doesn't think I ignore grievances. Today we simply must not be embarrassed by the parliamentary struggle for a real decree that is essential for the culture, everything, from plastic arts to video games, from cinema to theatre and dance, from heritage to music and so many other sectors, because today we must not leave anyone behind; let us join in the service of culture. Culture has an incalculable value for a country. John Stuart Mill insisted on placing it as a priority, the attention of citizens in learning and cultural experience is nourishment of the intellect. That way Mill believed he had a value for the human being as an element that makes us better citizens. Of course, culture must be free, as expressing criticism of the system is an indelible part of its task. From this freedom it builds a more critical and therefore more committed society to the improvement of the common project. Today we do not come to validate a real decree to help culture; because it needs and deserves it, that is why we must do so. I must ask you, because I am so sorry, that in your vote there prevails not the aversion to this government, which is lawful, but the love of culture. Today we are not going to do a favor to the Executive or the Minister, today we come to do a good for culture and need our good decision. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we find a real decree of unquestionable power that overcomes many of the emergencies that we detect together with the different cultural sectors at the beginning of this pandemic, of meticulous and careful architecture. It is true that, like any other legislative work, it does not cover everything, but from today if we approve it, here, in this Congress we will have the opportunity to face together the eventualities that may arise. Remember the words that Asimov put in Salvor Hardin's mouth at the Foundation: To succeed only planning is insufficient, one must improvise as well. That is, one must know how to adapt his plans to eventualities, yes, but first the plans and then the contingencys. I humbly believe that in this respect, in culture, the Government is setting a good example today. We'll have time to discuss more, and we'll do it, as I told you, right here. But today, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote in favour of this royal decree. I'm done, President. Ladies and gentlemen, those who see in culture only confrontation, who see it as a political tool, as a weapon bold against each other, keep their masks with flags, their bracelets with flags, and wrap themselves in them, because only there is their banal homeland. For the Democrats, the homeland resides in every curtain raised, in every brush, in every pixel, in every note, in every chisel, in all the hands and minds that create them. For this country we will give everything, today and always, because it is worth it, because this country is only wrapped in freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u289	Thank you very much, Mr Lamuà. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Culture and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u290	Thank you very much, President. With venial, ladies and gentlemen. Very briefly. I truly, sincerely thank all of you, the speakers of the groups, for your interventions. I have seen in his words the doses of common commitment, of responsibility, even of constructive criticism that deserves a situation as delicate as that of the cultural sector in our country at the moment. It is a situation of extreme necessity that requires urgent action by the public authorities. Today we have two votes, the first to validate the royal decree, which will allow the aid to be implemented from now on; the second vote is to treat it as a bill, so that all political groups have the opportunity to amend it and improve it. But if they do not vote in favour of the first vote there will be nothing to be treated as a bill, nothing to amend or improve, but with their vote they will have paralysed the aid to culture. Think of these people as they vote, because the vote of your ladies and gentlemen today is essential for all of them. Thank you very much for your contributions. I hope that this decree will come forward, because culture deserves it and our country deserves it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u291	Thank you very much, Minister. ACTS RELATING TO THE STATES OF ALARM, EXCEPTION AND SITE. [[VOTING]] - No, no, no, - Application for authorisation of the state of alarm declared by the Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the state of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by the Royal Decree 476/2020 of 27 March, 487/2020 of 10 April, 492/2020 of 24 April, and 514/2020 of 8 May. [[File number 091/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u292	We shall proceed to the votes. First, the vote on the request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm, declared by Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by Royal Decrees 476/2020 of 27 March, 487/2020 of 10 April, 492/2020 of 24 April and 514/2020 of 8 May. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 46 plus 304 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 20 plus 157 telematics votes, 177; against, 21 plus 141 telematics votes, 162; abstentions, 5 plus 6 telematics votes, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u293	The extension of the state of alarm, which will be published in the State Official Gazette, is therefore authorised. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u294	Royal Decree-Law 16/2020 of 5 May, approving measures to support the cultural and tax sector to address the economic and social impact of COVID-2019. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 46 plus 301 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 24 plus 158 telematics votes, 182; against, 6 plus 44 telematics votes, 50; abstentions, 16 plus 99 telematics votes, 115.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u295	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 46 plus 301 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 46 plus 296 telematics votes, 342; against, 4 telematics votes; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-20-CD200520.u296	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was eight and fifteen minutes of the night.
