ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the entire financial transaction tax bill. For the introduction of the bill, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u2	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, all of you. Indeed, in this first hour of today's morning I defend before the House the bill of the tax on financial transactions, which, like the tax on certain digital services that we debated just last week, was approved by the same Council of Ministers on 18 February and against which the parliamentary groups People's, VOX and Citizens have submitted amendments to the whole, requesting therefore their return to the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the content of some of these amendments, rather than amendments to the whole of this particular bill, I would say that the right and the extreme right are actually doing what they are doing is to amend to the whole the very existence of a tax system. If I may, before I go into detail about this initiative, I would like to tell you that some of the arguments against this bill are based on a deep, dangerous and I believe that quite irresponsible attempt to delegitimize the tax system, or at least, ladies and gentlemen, a taxation that is rooted in constitutional principles that are not equivalent to those of equality or progressive. In other words, the final argument of these amendments to the whole, of course, does not coincide with the principles governing the action of this Government, where everyone has to contribute according to the economic capacity to sustain all public expenditure. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that since the amendments are very similar - specifically those of the Group of the European People's Party - to which they submitted last week on a fairly different tax figure, the digital services tax, you have done what you have done is simply change the name of one tax to another and therefore use exactly the same argument. And I also know, ladies and gentlemen, that in this House, on the part of the right and the right, there is a front of the no to which the VOX Group has drawn to the Group of the European People's Party and, on the contrary, there is also a group of political forces which we advocate a fair, modern, progressive taxation without privileges and which therefore respects the general interest of the Spanish nation and not just specific interests defended by a few. Ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental objective of this tax is to contribute to the consolidation of public finances and to strengthen the principle of tax equity, since transactions which are now subject to taxation are not subject to any tax at the moment; otherwise, there was a legal vacuum in these types of figures because traditional taxation was not adapted to this volume of transactions. And I am sure that the vast majority of people who listen to us know that they contribute modestly, but always with effort, to this support of the public arks and, therefore, do not understand that there are situations that represent an unacceptable privilege and, of course, an aggravation for all taxpayers. Therefore, with its rejection of the progressive advance of the tax system, the right appears to be consistent with the idea that the State has a purely welfare role and that the private sector somehow replaces the public in the provision of services. Some consider this to be a very liberal approach. I believe, however, that it is an old, nineteenth-century approach, that it is quite unrealistic and that it is enough to look at the current situation to know that we have to adapt everything in the political environment, but the tax system expressly. I say that the right side seems to be defending this because, in fact, when things go wrong, it also demands public resources, which makes it impossible to deal with all the proposals and all the initiatives that are being put forward. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you when we talk about taxation that this is not an abstract entity, that you yourselves, when you rejected a few days ago an initiative that was presented for the payment of salaries of 13 million workers, I imagine you would be thinking that in order to make it possible you would need a strong taxation, a taxation that would contribute with more resources in order to be able to meet those promises. If not, as always, we find that with one hand we pose one thing and with the other the opposite. Or, for example, Your Honor, you have been in favour of extending ERTs to a range of sectors, you have been in favour of giving more money to the autonomous communities, of taking other measures. And the question is always the same: if you think you have to lower taxes and increase public spending, how do you plan to square the equation, given that some of the theories, which are held up just for you to endure the role - for example, those relating to the Laffer curve - is empirically proven that you have no kind of sustenance? I also ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the statements you make from the rostrum and also in the same papers you do not delegitimise the tax system or systematically present each tax as a barrier to economic growth, because without the tax system Spain would not only be a much more unjust country, but also at this time it would have no future from an economic point of view. Let us try to have a rigorous debate, which will stick to reality and therefore not make assumptions that in itself, its formulation alone, already places it to one outside of reality. It is imperative, therefore, that we have that tax system that we are moving forward, a system that adapts to the new realities of the economy, and the bill attempts to move forward in that direction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that we have always come to the same conclusion from the forecasts on public funds that have been made at other times or in other governments by other parliamentary groups - in particular by the People's Party - when you are in the opposition, you are constantly demanding a tax reduction; when you come to the government, if the economic situation is like what we have at the moment, you are producing a massive tax increase, indiscriminately, affecting above all the middle class and the working class, and since when the election dates are approaching, you usually throw some fiscal hook to justify in some way that it has not been possible to fulfil your promises - I insist, of massive tax cuts - because circumstances did not allow it. It is a modus operandi to which those of us who have been listening for some time are accustomed and I understand that today we will repeat a simulation of this very thing. The purpose of this debate is to stress that it is essential and essential that some economic operations that have become more prominent in recent years in the context of digital development have different taxation. The taxation that is suited to the figures that to date existed is more typical of traditional businesses, of traditional businesses, and finds poorly fit - therefore, it is unfair - with activities that, today, are developing. In this context, in this permanent attempt to make the taxation of our country the 21st century, this fiscal figure - like the one I presented last week - is not an invention of the Spanish Government, it is not an eccentricity of something that arises from a few days of study, but that we have been working in the European environment for years just to find the unanimity necessary to have a financial transaction tax that is common, that is at least homogeneous in all the Member States and that has its reference in the proposal for a directive that the European Commission launched in September 2011. We have been working for nine or ten years to make it possible for this tax figure to be extended unanimously to all countries. That is why most Member States have advanced their position. You can't expect some people's veto to keep the rest of us from moving towards fair taxation. That is why ten Member States are already in some way applying this transaction tax, namely Belgium, Cyprus, France, Finland, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Romania, Poland or the United Kingdom, and the Commission is advocating the harmonisation of all of them to reduce the distortions that this variety presents in competition or discourage risky speculative practices and also prevent future crises. A proposal that seeks a fair contribution from the financial sector to this budgetary consolidation of the Member States, which also compensates for the role in the economic crisis and the cost of the bailouts that were paid by taxpayers and which amounted to close to EUR 4.6 billion in the European context. In other words, it seems logical that when, at a critical time, some entities have had to be rescued, later, when the situation is over, these same entities contribute to a fair extent to the sustainability of all public services. The Commission's objective, like that of the Government of Spain, was to correct a situation of infra-gravity in the financial sector vis-à-vis other economic sectors and to obtain tax revenues which, in the case of the directive, would be distributed between the European Union and the Member States, thereby reducing national contributions, a kind of shared taxation throughout the Union. The prospect of the tax for Europe was that it would enter into force in 2014, i.e. more than six years ago, with revenues of around 57 billion euros for the 27 member countries; then this amount was lowered, but it was a significant amount of resources and especially in a time - 2014 and 2015 - where the economic situation was a complicated situation, which required an increase in public revenue. In fact, the European Parliament subsequently issued a favourable opinion on this application of the tax, calling for improvements in its design. And so it could continue with the successive meetings of the Ecofin, in short, with all the attempts that have been made in the international framework to find a common framework that would allow us to adopt uniform taxation among all. But, as I said to you, when all the countries of the Union have studied the applications - each with its own peculiarity - although we have made significant progress, unanimity has not been achieved. I believe that your ladies and gentlemen are not alien to the fact that some countries are reluctant to set up certain tax figures for hosting the headquarters of some companies. Indeed, as was also the case last week, some countries see this attempt directly as an attack on the national situation itself in the places where the tax offices of large companies operating under this type of operation are located. That is why I would like to tell you that it is timely and appropriate for us to move forward; we must continue to set the course convinced that the whole of the European Union will then be taxed on these matters or on these issues. Therefore, I again commit myself - as I did with digital services - to making sure that when that situation comes - I hope it is soon, although we do not expect the work to progress quickly - we will adapt our fiscal figure to that new reality. In some ways, the draft law already provides for the possibility of adaptation in the event that we finally have coherence and get a speech at European level. I just want to remind you again of Spain's share of public revenue in relation to GDP, well below the Eurozone average, namely more than 7 points. A difference that even reaches the 10 points if we compare with France, Finland or Denmark. It is therefore not reasonable to ask, as the amendments as a whole do, that our country wait for this global European agreement, nor have all the countries that I have just enumerated done so. Much less reasonable, ladies and gentlemen, is the argument that hides the desire that the later we adopt this tax, the better. I would say that the more late you are in everything related to taxation, according to the right of this country, the better. Because behind the attempt to approve the tax there are, in short, legitimate interests - which I respect and which, therefore, I have little to say about them - but I also want to say that they are interests that are alien to the general of our country or, in other words, they benefit a few at the expense of the citizens as a whole. In fact, this tax claims that a 0,2 % tax is imposed on the acquisition of shares of Spanish companies, irrespective of the residence of the agents involved in these operations and provided that they are undertakings with a market capitalisation value of more than EUR 1 billion. Therefore, as you see, a fairly concrete reality of a rather concrete group of activities and which also has a considerable amount of benefit in order to be able to continue contributing in a greater proportion to the whole of the public arks. In this way and as it is written, of course, the tax prevents the sale of SME shares, for example; it does not affect the primary market; it has no impact on companies that for the first time are on the market and will also be exempt from paying for it purchases that are essential for the operation of infrastructure of the business restructuring market or those that are carried out - this is very common - between companies of the same group or, for example, sections of shares of a temporary nature. The taxable person of the tax is the financial intermediary, the one who transmits or executes the purchase order, the one who has to pay the tax, it is not the customer who is obliged to do so. Emphasizing this last fact, the tax, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and of VOX, does not affect customers, does not affect those who have current accounts, cards, mortgages, loans or fixed-term taxation, to quote some of the most common banking examples. In other words, this taxation is not going to burden savers. If you take into account the latest published data, for example, the 2017 family financial survey, only 11% of Spanish households have shares in listed companies. In fact, 30% are in the richest percentage in the country, only 2.8% are in households with a lower income level. So I would ask you, in the face of this modest tax reform, to put forward the arguments which your ladies and gentlemen consider appropriate, but not to make excuses for not addressing an issue on which everyone has their opinion, but which is absolutely fundamental. The settlement of the tax is proposed at the monthly level. Taxpayers must also submit an annual declaration. We have an estimated revenue of around EUR 850 million per year. It is an estimate, we will have to wait for the definitive application of the tax, but I know that this collecting impact is all that interests some of the groups who oppose this process. I would like to tell you that this tax is not only a collection tool, it is also an instrument aimed at deterring speculative movements in the financial markets. In some ways, it tries to avoid some turbulence that alters the normal functioning of the market and that, through this type of imposition, it is possible to stabilize them and, directly, regulate them. Last week the parliamentary groups tabled amendments to the whole by criticising the government for not expecting Europe to agree on a similar tax. Today, too, the same arguments are presented by your ladies and gentlemen. I have to repeat this: I believe that our country cannot wait for years and years of debate in international frameworks to implement these kinds of measures. At this very moment, in a situation of economic crisis that accompanies health, it becomes much more important that we can fine-tune well, map out the economic areas, the fiscal figures who are exercising unfair competition in relation to other sectors and who, on the other hand, have an effective capacity to abound in their contribution of income to the public arks as a whole. Entering into each of the amendments, as I said to you, that they are practically the same as those that were presented for the digital tax, I would like to tell your ladies in the People's Group to remix, word by word, the transaction tax with the Mobile World Congress, as was done last week with the other type of tax, using an argument that does not correspond to the one you maintained in your day, when you claimed that the suspension of the Mobile World Congress was due to the independence challenge, because the companies that came to Congress for that reason were being driven away. They say today that it is because of the situations that have to do with the tax figures, and I know, ladies and gentlemen, that we are separated from the tax approach that you have, because the model of society that you have is different from the model of society that this government has. But I would also like to say to you that you do not agree on all the issues raised in your amendment, simply because you do not give any specific reason not to accept the debate on amendments to this type of tax; otherwise, you do not explain why you are against the financial transaction tax. What you do is a question, a reflection about the tax systems or the moment we live in, but you do not go into the depth of this tax to explain to us why you feel that this tax does not have to contribute or how we could deal with it in a different way from what you put to the government, just use, as I said, last week's short and stick. As for the VOX Group, you say that this tax means a fall in profitability in the acquisition of shares, in investment funds, a destination that, in your opinion, supports a significant part of the Spanish families. This is not true, ladies and gentlemen, of a fallacy, of a mark more than the extreme right, because bank accounts constitute 34 % of the value of the financial assets of Spanish households, followed by pension plans, which represent 16,2 %. In fact, the percentage of families and households that directly dispose of listed shares is little more than 10%, and also corresponds to households that logically have higher income and wealth. That is why it is unsustainable to say that this tax on financial transactions will harm the savings of Spanish families, in a country where more than 12 million people, 26% of our population, are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, according to the latest report of the European Network to Combat Poverty. What do you mean it's going to affect the savings of Spanish households generically? In any case, to certain sections of income from certain tax situations that you know perfectly well. Because, indeed, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I sometimes believe that they are out of reality; I do not think that many families in our country are overly concerned about what they have to invest in the stock exchange or the impact this financial transaction tax will have on their daily lives. People are concerned to see how you can get to the end of the month, to see how you can keep your job and, therefore, look nothing like what you explain in your explanatory statement with the reality that families live in our country. They now claim that the tax is going to create a fiscal distortion that will make capital move, in your opinion, to other markets, and end up denying that it will contribute effectively to the consolidation of public finances. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that none of the other countries that have implemented this type of taxation is a dangerous left-wing country, as it sometimes seems that you want to insinuate when we put some of this kind of figure in motion, nor has there been any tax distortion or capital movements to other markets, nor has any of the stories that you have told in your argument have passed. Finally, the Citizens' Group also opposes the tax. He describes it as inappropriate, as he did last week with that of digital services. They say that they are not against the tax figure, but that we must wait until the international consensus is reached, a consensus I said in my speech that it is now more than seven years. And they also say that it is disturbing to create new taxes that burden citizens, businesses or entrepreneurs. In fact, this tax to which I charge exclusively is to the financial intermediaries, not to the customers, as I have just explained. I always insist that by that rule of three there would be no corporate tax. According to his lordship's theory, all taxation on the company ends up moving to the final product. Therefore, the conclusion would be that no taxation should be applied to companies so that it does not affect the person who ultimately consumes the services, an argument that is not supported by his own philosophy and how to address it. I conclude by telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is important that we be able to continue working in the whole of our tax system so that we can all articulate a taxation more appropriate to the era that we are living in relation to the increasingly numerous economic activities that are taking place in another format, under other premises and that do not find an adequate framework in traditional taxation, a taxation that avoids unfair competition from those businesses that have a better umbrella in traditional taxation. We must create the necessary conditions of competition, both for our companies and at international level, so that everyone can contribute on the basis of what they earn, on the basis of what they have, so that all citizens can enjoy public services that allow us to be stronger. That is why, on behalf of the Government, I would like to ask the rest of the groups that have usually expressed their willingness to continue exploring reasonable fiscal avenues that will allow us to modernise our tax system so that it can gain progressively and make our collection more profitable, more effective and so that we can get closer to that European average, finding with imagination and innovation fiscal figures that will allow us to adapt to that new model of the reality of the twenty-first century. And I thank you in advance, ladies and gentlemen, for the tax pedagogy you exercise when you come up to this rostrum, so that we can explain to all citizens that taxes are not a punishment, but rather a guarantee of security so that in our country we can talk about middle classes, because without this taxation we could not talk about a middle class that enjoys good public services, we could not talk about the workers' security support; in short, we could not talk about forming a society. Without taxation, with a policy of saving anyone, there will be at least less ethical codes that allow society to articulate. Therefore, let us abandon populist discourses, abound in that fiscal pedagogy and build among all a just and progressive system that nourishes the welfare state with sufficient resources, which is the real guarantee that politics can offer to all citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u3	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Cepeda. Three amendments to this bill have been tabled to the full refund. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u4	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here a week after submitting an amendment to the whole of another tax, to the rate on digital services. This is another tax that comes to impose a circumstance, as the minister has commented, and we will now comment on why we understand that it is not the time to bring this tax to this House. As the Minister has rightly said, since 2011 the European Union, the whole of the 27 countries, was considering whether it was necessary for this type of tax to be created within the European Union. Of those twenty-seven countries, only ten - including Spain - decided that yes, they wanted to start it, but there it was. Interestingly, the Sánchez government, which needed much more funding - all this was before the crisis we suffered from the coronavirus - began to rescue taxes that they believed could help them with public spending to keep a government so numerous in ministries and with so many high offices. Then they brought us this tax that charges against our citizens, our companies and our entrepreneurs, and I will explain to you why. As it has passed with other taxes, such as the mortgage tax or as it is going to happen with the so-called Google rate on digital services, what happens in the end is that companies turn it around. In this case, the financial intermediaries will pour it into account-keeping fees or other fees that ultimately pay the usual fees. When you set up a tax, don't look at what happens in the rest of the economy. This Government rescues the idea of creating this tax even though they have been able to see how bad the tax has been in other countries where it has been launched. It has not looked at the failures of Sweden, France or Italy, both in terms of the intended collection objectives and in the adverse effects that the creation of this tax has had. It's had a zero effectiveness. With our country's economic forecasts - a deficit that is going to be over 10% long, a debt that will be up to 125% of gross domestic product and an unemployment that is going to be over 20% - all they can think of is bringing in a new tax at this time of crisis. Although, as I say to you, we already thought that this tax was meaningless before, because it is a tax that has not worked in other countries and that, moreover, it does not have the consensus of the European Union, which will have disastrous consequences for our economy. Minister, I ask you: are you sure it will not have negative effects on our economy? Because I think so. The negative effects that it can bring to our economy we are going to tell you now. It will encourage the relocation of Spanish companies influencing the level of our competitiveness. To this day, that consensus has not been reached, which we believe it should have in the European Union. This tax mainly imposes the purchase of shares of Spanish companies admitted to trading on a secondary market from a level of stock capitalization; that is true, but regardless of the market on which they contribute, the place where the acquisition and residence of the participants in the transaction takes place. In short, and in order for us all to understand each other, people or companies who want to invest in shares of this type of Spanish companies will have to pay more, they will have to pay taxes. And what does that mean? They will prefer to invest in companies that are not Spanish. That doesn't help our economy. The competitiveness of Spanish companies is more than likely to be affected. Why? Because when you have other products that are not taxed you will prefer to invest in those products. Interestingly, the Government knows that there is such a possibility and, in fact, in memory of the analysis of the normative impact it says that this tax will increase the transaction costs, which could lead to a reduction in the overall volume negotiated; that is, fewer shares will be bought from Spanish companies. What will happen too? The relocation of enterprises. If you have a company in Spain where you want them to invest by buying your shares and you get taxed with a tax, what are you going to do? Take the company to another country. In fact, it's very easy to relocate a company right now. It's very easy to leave Spain. We already have very few incentives to attract investment to our country. Do we want to put one more stop at their arrival? Do we want to put one more stop to this kind of business? It is true that this tax will tax large companies, a small group of companies, but which contribute 10% to the gross domestic product and have an overall employability of one and a half million people. Is it really true that with the unemployment rate that we have right now and the one that is expected to put a stop to this type of business? In the financial system we no longer have borders and this is a real problem, the relocation of our companies. This will penalize small investors, that is clear. Investment in this type of stock, in this type of product, does it in a very general way, albeit in a not very high percentage, big fortunes, but also small savers; they make it SMEs and make it multinational. But here too these pension funds, associations, foundations, collective investment institutions, which will also contribute by having to pay these taxes, will be brought in, and this is directly incumbent on the citizen. If so, all this will irreparably harm small savers, who are estimated to be 20% of the total shares listed in our country, a small percentage, but a good percentage. A tax that was originally born in Europe with the aim of increasing the contribution of financial institutions to the recovery of the costs of the 2008 crisis can be a macabre and staggering failure if this cost is finally linked through these commissions that I have commented to the final consumer. The main market players are opposed to the creation of this new tax and really are institutions that have a specific weight in the European economy. The European Central Bank says that adverse consequences on financial markets may lead to difficulties in generating liquidity. The National Securities Market Commission says this position will increase the level of competition between markets and financial positions. Spanish Stock Exchanges and Markets says it believes that this tax burden will diminish our ability to adapt to new crisis situations and weaken our financial market. Why? Because it will increase relocations, encourage capital flight and generate the competitive advantage of a globalised market. The associations of bank users, savings banks and insurance companies do not see this tax well either. Why? Because this tax can cost small shareholders a cost. But I am going further, the current president of the AIReF, in the Finance Committee a week ago, told us that any tax that was created in Spain isolated and outside the umbrella of the European Union would be harmful to our country. And we also need to talk about the unreal collection targets. Here I would like to give an example, because the Minister has set an example of an added amount in the European Union, but what if we think of specific countries? France thought it was going to raise 1.5 million a year and when it implemented it it was found a collection of 80 million. And not only that, what was found is that the French Court of Auditors issued a report saying that the costs of this tax which charged this type of transaction were derived from final consumers through commissions and other charges for small and medium-sized enterprises, for the final consumer and for small investors. I mean, we have a clear example that it hasn't worked, but we want to keep bringing it in. Madam Minister, it is no question that we do not want new taxes to be created, it is that we believe that it is not good for the Spanish economy, it is that we need to grow now more than ever, it is that we have been three months with our paralyzed economy. And now we're going to implement this tax? I think it is not the time, my party is clear that it is not the time, just as it is not the time to implement the digital service rate. In Citizens we do not oppose the creation of a tax if it had other characteristics and, of course, if it were consensual within the European Union. Can't we wait? Do we want to continue to imitate the countries that have implemented it and have not done them well? Do we know that there are countries where this kind of tax has not worked and we are going to bring them here? Well, we'll wait for the consequences, Minister. We propose that, instead of adopting in isolation a fiscal burden of obvious global consequences in our country, the necessary efforts be made within the Ecofin for its implementation, if necessary, always with the maximum possible harmonisation within the European Union and respecting the studies carried out by the European Commission on the most appropriate model of financial taxes. We do not believe, however, that now is the most appropriate time to boost the implementation of this tax, since we live in a time of crisis in which each and every one of our companies, whether small, large or multinational, who are creators of work, have suffered during these months financial paralysis. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the VOX Group, Mr Manso Olivar.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u6	With your permission, Madam President. Good morning. I am glad to see them all and to see them so well; however, I would not like to start my speech without reminding the more than 44 000 Spaniards who died because of the crisis of the coronavirus. I hope the Lord has welcomed them into his bosom. Today we come to talk about a new tax and, as the Minister has explained to us, it is nothing more than a tax that taxes the sale of shares under certain conditions, for certain Spanish companies and of a certain volume. And the minister says that this tax is not going to tax families in principle, but I find it very difficult to believe that. You want to put a tax of 0,2 % on each purchase, and it turns out that the fees charged by the sector to broker in the sale of shares are between 0,25 and 0,35. As you will understand, if you were charging between 0.25 and 0.35 for the service and now you have to assume a 0.20 tax, someone will have to pay this. And the little savers are actually going to pay for it. I'll explain to you why the little savers are going to pay you, Minister. You say: it is that small savers have only 11% of their equity. Yes, but 16% in insurance and pension funds and 14% in investment funds, and all that is materialized in shares. Look, when you put in a tax, Minister, you have to ask yourself what Fuentes Quintana said. He said that taxes at the end are paid by people, and you have to think which people are going to pay, ultimately, this tax. But let's keep going. You know that what we approve today - or do not approve - is the famous Tobin rate, whose intellectual authorship is attributed to Mr Tobin, although he repudiates it because what he designed is something else. This is an idea of Keynes expressed in his general Theory. Keynes is the authority on which you base this tax, but I think, like Röpke, Keynes was an immoral; let's remember the famous phrase 'long-term, all dead', that the only thing he has brought is short-term politics. Madam Minister, we clearly believe that taxes are necessary. They are super-necessary to cover the minimum activities of the State in principle and, subsequently, the activities carried out by a modern State, a social and legal State. But public revenues and expenditures have been assessed, as they have to meet efficiency and economic criteria, in articles 31.1 and 31.2 of the Constitution. I mean, you can't record anything that comes to mind, as you like it sometimes to the left. There are some limitations, which are the criteria of economy and efficiency, and I do not invent them myself, you have them in the Constitution; Article 31.2 tells you the criteria that have to meet the expenses and, indeed, 31.1 reminds us that the Spanish people, in addition to being necessary and that we have to contribute to the burden of the State, are constitutional, and we all know that they are inevitable. If there were not these criteria of economy and efficiency, I insist, any idea about increasing public revenue would be good and, therefore, with the overwhelming imagination that you have to create tax figures, you would not stop. But let's go to the technical arguments. On May 18 was here the governor and, man, the governor, what he wants me to say, not for himself but for the institution he represents, I think something had to tell us, and we cannot claim our direct election by the people to say that this covers our ignorance. I will read you the paragraph I have taken from the Governor's statement on the creation of new tax figures, open quotes: The magnitude of the challenge of consolidation is so relevant that I believe we cannot rest or think that with minimal changes or new tax figures we will be able to face the challenge ahead. When one sees the Spanish tax structure, it is evident which tax figures have collectory capacity. Other elements - ornaments, I would say - can be added, but with sufficient collection capacity, there are basically four tax figures. And, of course, I think it is important that we do not overlook the efficiency of the amendment; just as I have emphasized it from the point of view of public expenditure, it is important to emphasize it from the point of view of the tax system. That said, and this tax that you propose today, Minister, does not meet the efficiency and economy criteria required by the Constitution. For that reason alone, we should return the project to you. And, as you see, the governor also tells us to think about spending, efficiency and the economy of spending. But I will explain to you, from my point of view, why the tax is not efficient. First - it has explained very well Citizens -, has little collection capacity. You're talking about 850 million. You said that this is a figure of the 21st century. It will be the 21st century, but Sweden abandoned it in the 20th century, after seven years of failure and raising 3%. France has collected 40% of what was expected. Italy has collected 16% of what it expected. This tax also erodes the tax bases of personal income taxes and corporate income tax, because, logically, if every time you buy and sell you have to pay, what is going to happen is that sales transactions are going to delay time and are going to produce what are called financial smaller portfolio rotations. International experience says more, Minister. International experience says things like the relocation of operations. Sweden lost half of its market, which went to London. You talk about gross collection, but you forget things like net collection; we are very interested in net collection, Your Honor! How much does it cost to collect this tax? That's important. What is the taxpayer's cost of completing this tax? I repeat, what erosion on the tax bases of other taxes will this tax generate? Look at you, the European Commission, which can be a source of authority if you want to accept it, said that growth in Europe would be reduced by between 0.17 and 3.43, with an average of 1.76. We are not about to lose 1.76% growth. Nor are we, as the European Commission said, moving between 70% and 90% of operations, or new financial instruments that replicate the behaviour of the shares and are not subject to taxation. For you this is an ideological tax; it is a way of increasing income now that we have a high public deficit - because of the coronavirus in its short-term part, but not only - and it has its ideological point because you say: this will be paid by the speculators. Look, there's no scientific evidence that Tobin's tax or financial transaction tax eliminates speculation or reduces volatility; there's no scientific evidence. I have brought a whole reference to scientific literature that I will make available to the Minister if you want to finish this intervention. What the scientific evidence says, Minister, is that the introduction of a financial transaction tax increases the financing costs of the companies concerned; it raises the financing costs of the companies concerned, and in this situation, where what we need is employment, we need investment, and investment is greater and more abundant when the financing costs are lower. I have always been drawn to the attention of one thing, Minister, about this obsession from the left to the Tobin rate, because it seems purely ideological - indeed, I tell you with all the affection, purely ideological - and they say they are going against speculators and volatility in the markets. Look at you, the forms of financing of companies are not just shares, companies are also financed in the bond market and you never talk about putting that tax on financial transactions in the bond market, where there is also a lot of volatility and a lot of speculation, and you know what is the bond with which you most speculate and what more volatility you have: the public bond. If you were to go to the Directorate General of the Treasury to tell that Directorate General - which is one of the major Directorates General of this country, such as that of the Civil Guard: Let's put a Tobin fee, but on all the sale of securities, both those that are capital financing and those that are debt financing, the first question would be: Does the public debt include? What was the general address going to tell you? Let him not even think about it; the financing costs are raised. Look, what we don't want for the public sector, we can't demand from the private sector. If we are not going to put a Tobin tax on public bonds because that raises the cost of financing public debt, don't put it on the private; don't want for others what you don't want for yourself. That is why - and I conclude - my group has tabled an amendment in its entirety and is asking the Government to return this bill. The tax does not meet the efficiency and economy criteria required by the Constitution because it has little gross collection capacity, because there are a number of unassessed costs that would reduce its net collection, such as the costs of administration of the tax by the Public Treasury, compliance costs and erosion of tax bases in other taxes. And thirdly, because of the high externalities that it generates, among which are the losses of jobs in the financial sector because, as Citizens have explained, there would be relocation of operations and the financial sector is a sector that at the moment generates better paid jobs than the average, because of the creation of new figures with which non-taxation would be favored and, thirdly and most importantly, because of the increase in the costs of business financing. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Manso. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Castellón Rubio.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Minister, nothing more has happened to the coalition government than you began to implement this highly ideological economic policy that you are doing. Mrs Montero, a few months ago, and I am afraid that, given what we have seen at this time, you are not prepared to rethink it, despite the fact that you feel detrimental to the economic and social situation that we have today in Spain: 30 more points of public debt than three months ago, a fall of between 10 and 15 % of national wealth, unadjusted, broken public finances, various sectors of our economy devastated by the virus but also as a result of the incompetence of this government, almost 25 % unemployment. I believe, Madam Minister, that these should be more than sufficient grounds for you to reconsider this or at least reflect on whether the fiscal policy that our economy requires to recover the path of growth from past times is this. Would it not be desirable, Minister, for any reform of our tax system proposed today to be part of a recovery plan drawn up by the Government to reactivate the Spanish economy? Madam Minister, that would be normal in a country whose government was not in chaos and whose president had a plan to reflect the economy, which, unfortunately, is not the case in Spain. Look, Mrs Montero, today in Congress we should be debating a tax reduction, postponement or abolition of social security contributions to help the hospitality sector, which is going so badly, get out of the crisis. Today, Minister, they should have brought into this House a debate on the reduction of VAT to the tourism sector in order to boost it, as they have done in Germany, for example, with a tourism sector far less powerful than ours. And to continue with examples of decisions taken in other countries of the European Union, today we should be talking in this forum about a package of fiscal incentives for economic recovery, incentives for our businesses, corporate tax deductions, measures to facilitate the compensation of negative bases or to apply new flat rates to the self-employed. Something, Mrs Montero, something, if it is that after three months of state of alarm you have a minimum road map to get this country out of ruin and bankruptcy, especially after the uncertainty, distrust and legal uncertainty that is causing the inaction of the President of the Government. However, today what you bring here, what we discussed here - you brought it here a few months ago, but we discussed it today - is another fiscal haze to the Spanish middle class, precisely when the Spanish middle class should be one of the engines of economic recovery, especially through consumption in these main sectors affected. Madam Minister, of course, you and we do not share a tax policy - you said it here - especially because you are trying to impose figures like these and we, on two occasions already, have had to resort to another way of doing tax policy to rescue this country from bankruptcy. And we have increased the collection bases by way of the tax reduction, not by means of the massive tax increase; by means of implementing and supporting growing activity, investment on the one hand and employment on the other, Mrs Montero. These are, therefore, the foundations of economic recovery and to move away from them, which is a vice to which you are very accustomed, is very damaging to the Spanish economy. As I said before, we were in a particularly convulsive situation for our economy, in which it would be reasonable for you to have reconsidered any tax increases, frozen them, submitted it to a reflection on whether they were convenient, relevant or not for the reconstruction of the Spanish economy that we all have entrusted in the short term. But, of course, asking you to subordinate ideology to the general interest would have been a little naive for me today. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating in this rostrum the amendment to the whole of which we have tabled three political groups to this new financial transaction tax, in which, Madam Minister, we can agree or not - you have directly attributed a decision to us without even knowing it - to tax financial transactions in some way, but what we cannot in any way share is how the Government has designed this tax figure. Some of the groups - you have also slipped it here - will now say that what we are discussing today is a tax on financial institutions, on financial intermediaries, on the one hand that sometimes they present about the need to reverse the bailout to the bank, but it is just as you have designed this tax, Mrs Montero, that this is really a tax and a blow to the Spanish families, because although the tax actually liquidates itself to the intermediaries in the acquisition of shares, no one here escapes from us that the new operating costs that these intermediaries are going to have are going to impact directly and immediately on the holders of shares, the millions of shareholders that the Spanish listed companies have, either through direct investments in shares, or through pension plans or other collective investment institutions. When you speak, Mrs Montero, of taxing the rich, you should remember that in Spain there are more than three million Spaniards who have stock in stock, more than three million families, to whom you want to raise taxes, and that, Mrs Montero, should not be overlooked by you. Moreover, you know perfectly well that this is a political tax, we do not say, because you know that in economic terms, approving this new tax figure, as it is designed, is a genuine and serious irresponsibility, for various reasons. The first of them, because you are seriously endangering the competitiveness of the large Spanish companies, which will be harmed by those operating in other markets; for starters, the issuance of their shares will be less attractive and in all logic, Mrs Montero, this will represent a barrier to entry into foreign investment which, I would like to recall, is nothing more or nothing less than 46% of Spain's stock capitalization. It is a very serious mistake, precisely when there is an increase in public debt and private debt at the moment. Do you - yes, you do - know what the consequences in France of applying this tax in isolation have been? The decrease of 10% in the volume of long-term procurement, the deterioration of market liquidity and the decrease of 20% in the negotiation of institutional investments. Secondly, it is a serious irresponsibility because it is another step in that direction, started by you with the Google rate, of fiscal isolation from Spain, which we do not understand, and which means moving away from the fiscal harmonisation that should be the road map that the European Union is going through in the immediate future. Adopting this figure unilaterally and apart from the rest of the countries of the European Union and the OECD, Minister, will be a scourge for our companies, who will see the markets of other countries operate on more favourable conditions than ours, which will inevitably lead to the relocation of financial activity to third markets. In this way, Madam Minister, and although you say otherwise in the explanatory statement, and you would have pointed out here, the adoption of this bill implies the unilateral abandonment of the enhanced cooperation mechanism which began a few years ago in the European Union to deal with, and in which if we had any weight in Europe, what we should be doing is leading it so that this tax would involve a harmonised implementation. And thirdly, Madam Minister, we are opposed, and we believe that the consequences will be serious, because experience tells us that none of the objectives that you have set yourself in this government, none of them, will be met, will not be used to contribute to the consolidation of public finances, will not be used to finance any social measures - and do not tell us, gentlemen of Podemos, now that you are going to pay what - because of the 850 million expected in revenue, in collection, you know that this is an uncertain objective and this has been demonstrated in France, Italy, Sweden, and that even the AIReF is not believed, nor will it be used to achieve greater fairness in our tax system because it is a tax of a selective and not general nature for all companies. Therefore, Minister, you are failing in time, you are failing in forms and you are failing in substance, something that we feel is particularly serious about the situation of special vulnerability of our economy, as a result of the inaction of your Government or of wrong decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the government has chosen the ideological path for the management of its economic policy, precisely at these delicate moments, Mrs Montero, when today what the economy requires is more competitiveness, structural reforms, legal certainty, coordinated action with our European partners, especially because Spain needs more investment, more dynamism, more growth and therefore more employment, Mrs Montero, less taxes and more employment. That is why we are calling for this bill to be returned to the Government. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, I wanted to say to you that there is a large part of Spanish society which is very much concerned about the fiscal haze that the Government is bringing to Spanish families and companies, but that there is also a large part of Spanish society which we are concerned about being certain, Minister, that its tax policy is not an end in itself, but is another means for the liquidation of the Spanish middle class, and thus causing a social fracture with an ideological and spurious purpose. In principle we believed that this was only a position of Podemos, but in view of the fact that we are concerned that it is being assumed by the Government in a collegiate manner, with which, in view of this and with these background, we are not surprised, Mrs Montero, in any way, that the ministers of the Government of Spain are codaços, and not because they remain in the Government, but because they are fleeing from it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u9	Thank you, Mr. Castellón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u10	Good morning. Thank you, President. Minister, throughout the last plenary sessions, whenever there has been talk of the necessary social measures that have been adopted, insufficient in many cases, what we have been thinking about was that they generated indebtedness, and that the unknown in the future was how such indebtedness would be addressed, that there should be changes in relation to creditors, i.e. the conditions placed by the European Central Bank on loans, whether there will be other loans, etc., or with the changes and taxation or the conditions of the Member States themselves that are in debt. But in the end we have always been summarizing that of the different solutions that had all ended up summarizing in two great options: either it came out of the cuts and there were social cuts for this indebtedness, or it came out of the great fortunes, of the companies of IBEX, especially of the bank, that could start by returning the money with which it was rescued. With regard to the cuts yesterday, we were concerned about the rather confusing answer that President Sánchez gave to a parliamentary question from the Euskal Group, Herria Bildu. It was not at all clear that that would not be the Government's option. And in relation to the other option, that is to say, increasing revenues by the way that those who have and accumulate the most is not that they have, is that they accumulate unnecessarily put on their side, today we are considering a tax measure aimed especially at those kinds of movements of money that are purely speculative. There is much talk that companies are being overburdened with taxes, there is talk of money movements that in the vast majority of cases are not providing any material wealth to societies. We therefore agree with that rate, which has been claimed by many movements in favour of fair taxation. But we see the limitations he has. Under the terms of the draft bill, companies with a stock exchange value of more than EUR 1 billion are taxed, and from these terms it is estimated that some EUR 850 million have already been raised. If we follow the somewhat stricter conditions that the historical promoters of this tax have been defending, that is, to tax all the shares, all the derivatives, all the bonds, would allow to raise 5 billion euros, it is estimated. Yesterday we were talking precisely about the minimum living income of some EUR 3 billion, and many groups are defending the inadequacy of this allocation, since it left many people out, and here we have measures that would allow many more millions of euros to be raised to be allocated precisely to the fight against poverty, which is also what the promoters of this tax on financial transactions are defending, that is, that what is collected is directed directly to the fight against poverty. That is, with somewhat more demanding conditions for these financial transactions, what could be collected and allocated to the fight against poverty would be five times greater. We have also advocated that other structural and extraordinary rates be proposed, because the situation is extraordinary in the face of the social emergency that has arisen as a result of the necessary social investment to combat inequalities. There are many issues that could be assessed and obtained from such a necessary collection for social policies. Financial and business gains over a certain amount could be rated extraordinarily. This could be done by the Spanish State and should be done by all states in the European environment on the assets of natural persons, on the assets of investment funds and companies or on capital transfers. In other words, fiscal measures must be put in place to ensure that this social investment, which is going to become state debt, is not paid by the popular classes in the form of cuts, but by the oligarchy or the IBEX companies, which have put nothing on their part in managing this crisis. Of course, apart from the change in taxation, fraud and corruption must also be pursued, starting with the investigation into the Bourbon monarchy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, I recognize the positive nature of the initiative you are presenting, but I also say that I think it remains insufficient, not so much because of the amount you are collecting, but because of the size of the problem you are facing. You have pointed out a number of points, which I will touch on in the speech, which I find interesting, but in any case it is worth remembering that this tax on financial transactions comes from a social debate, from a debate fed by social and popular movements, from Attac to others, which had to do with the Tobin tax and that, unfortunately - as is so much the case in institutional life - it takes away from the initial claims of the result, that is, those who raised the Tobin tax, beyond the name given to it, surely feel disappointed by the final result not of their tax, but of the whole debate in the European Union. That is why I say to you that it seems insufficient, because the problem is of a colossal scale to propose initiatives that, although in the right direction, do not cease to be small patches. You said in the intervention things that I find interesting to rescue because in the background, beyond whether 850 million are going to be raised or not, from whether we are going to stay closer or further away from that figure, the important thing is to see what orientation economic policy takes in the Spanish State at this particular moment; a moment that, as you have pointed out, is of enormous exceptionality, of great uncertainty and quite not to say gigantic shambles in the lives of hundreds of thousands of people, who see a very dark horizon in what has to do with their future and their vital project. You have spoken of fair, modern and progressive taxation, and we agree with that. We believe that taxation must be modernised, that it must be fair and progressive, that is to say, that whoever has the most pays. But, of course, this clashs head-on with many of the economic policies that have put different governments in the Spanish state, for example, when it comes to flexibility. In the Spanish State, flexibility is very often and with great joy: working flexibility, which always means more precariousness for workers and favouring employers, or fiscal flexibility, i.e. the tax advantages that a company has do not have by a citizen in the Spanish State and yet, even so, this is not enough. Because, what flexibility have Nissan or Alcoa's leaders not enjoyed for so many years, and how much has the flexibility they have enjoyed in deciding to close their businesses mattered to them? There's no cause-effect relationship, and that's what worries us. But he was talking about another issue that we also find interesting: the principle of tax equity. We also agree with the principle of tax equity, and encourage it to go there. Now, we do say something that you probably don't know about: it's complicated to get the principle of tax equity. It is complicated because if the first of the Spaniards - the king or the king's family - does so little with tax equity, little can be demanded of the rest. If you have 2 billion euros in you do not know which country - or if you know, one that has a red flag with a white cross - and also it turns out that the money has piled it up in a way that does not seem, supposedly, entirely legal, it is very difficult to tell the Spaniards that they have to comply with their tax and tax obligations. If the first of the Spaniards does not do so, if the first of the Spaniards has more rights and more privileges and less obligations than the rest, why the rest will be asked what is not asked of him. That is why I say that it has a titanic task for people to understand, with pedagogy, that they have to comply with their fiscal obligations, because they do not find examples of encouragement where they could or should find them. It also said a question that I think is important: that everyone has to contribute according to their resources to public expenditure, that which we have also pointed out from this rostrum once again with that of 'who else has more to pay'. We agree, but the question is, is it being done? And the answer is, no. We could look for thousands of examples; I have looked for one that, in addition, made public the SER chain before yesterday I think, which is very graphic. There are three companies, which everyone will know about: Netflix, HBO and Amazon Prime Video; among the three they billed 216 million euros in 2018. Do you know how much tax they paid to the Spanish state? 100 000 euros. They charge 216 million and pay 100 000 euros in taxes. An average citizen in Spain who earns 23 000 euros pays 3000 euros in taxes. Netflix, one of them, but could talk about the other two, paid 3000 euros in 2018 for its turnover. Come on, not half as a Dacia Sandero. That is the reality of big companies. That is why we are very grateful that we are talking about the need to stimulate companies. With what more can companies be encouraged? You talk about tax evasion and we think it is important to talk about tax evasion and avoidance, which is what companies like the ones I have just mentioned practice. We are also told that if we do not continue to protect companies they are going to go elsewhere, they are going to relocate. We should also talk about relocating or settling down companies, because, why do companies not leave Sweden, Finland or Denmark? Or does anyone think that there are no companies in those Nordic countries? Or is it that someone thinks that Volvo or Ikea are Chinese cheats and that they are not really companies with that Nordic origin? It's basically a fallacy to argue that the more we give businesses more guarantees we'll have to stay, and we've seen it with Nissan and Alcoa. You have said one thing that we also share: that when things go wrong companies ask for aid. We share that because we see it every day. Companies, and those who defend their tractor role in the welfare of citizens, have a somewhat strange logic: they are liberal with their own things, but they are deeply socialist with all and all, because when they have problems they resort to the state as if they were the first of the socialists. This one would think Keynes was immoral, anyway. I'll finish with a question. It is difficult to go up to this rostrum to talk about progressive and equitable taxation when you read headlines like, for example, that Real Madrid or Barcelona are going to ask the state 200 million in order to be able to pay the salary of their cracks. Because it is indecent and because one wants to leave it here for parliamentary decorum and not go further, but I end up with three issues that have powerfully attracted my attention. The representative of the People's Party said that you subordinate ideology to the general interest, I don't know if you come to that or not. What I do know is that in politics we should all make ideology a major factor. You will certainly also, surely you will also, I do not think you are mere managers or, if not, curious coincidence that always makes all right-wing policies end up well received in your ideal. He was commenting on the tax saber to the families. Savazo is what I've said about big companies. Families are fulfilling their taxes. Families want basic health care, education and public guarantee services. I'm done. They said before that Keynes was an immoral, for me it was not an immoral, for me it was a lukewarm, to be honest. And someone was talking about continuing to encourage companies. I leave you a formula of success for companies to stay in this territory or in any other, what happens is that maybe people are revolting: I think slavery would probably love many companies.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u13	Thank you, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Egun on. Good morning. In Europe, there have been several attempts to impose a common rate, the well-known Tobin rate, which has not just fallen, mainly because of the pressures of the lobbies and the countries most reluctant to this type of tax, a rate whose concept has been changing and modulating over time, but with which a large majority of countries in the international community agree, beyond the difficulties in its implementation and in optimizing its collection effectiveness. In the midst of the debt crisis, a tax of 0.1 was already imposed for the purchase of shares and derivatives in Europe, and only a few months ago Germany was trying again to boost this tax and, in addition, very similar to what the Government is now proposing, with a rate of 0.2 for shares of companies with more than 1 billion market value. In Europe there are already countries that have adopted this tax such as France and Italy, and France has also gone from a rate of 0.1 to 0.2 and then to 0.3 and there has certainly been no sinking of the stock exchanges or the flight of their financial institutions. This group has always advocated for a European rate, for a tax as harmonised as possible, also without generating distortion. However, when we come to this point, it must be said that the Spanish tax is very similar to that which is being promoted with enhanced cooperation in Europe and, therefore, it seems consistent to implement within the State what we intend to implement at European level, a tax which, like the one we discussed last week, must be adapted to the tax system, since it is not intended, as the minister has said, for the new economic reality. This tax can also serve as a tax tool to discourage certain financial transactions, specifically the most speculative ones that, of course, do not generate employment or boost the economy and, on the other hand, to increase collection, helping to reduce the revenue gap, and will also compensate for the social costs generated in recent years. Resources, therefore, that should not be lost by waiting for Europe and that are so necessary will be in this context of the health crisis that is being experienced, and in which we all also assume that in this exceptional situation an exceptional mobilization of resources is required and, moreover, it must be recognized that the fiscal architecture, as it is currently configured, is not enough to sustain the needs or the public services that will require this situation and to avoid a high deficit. Of course, it will be necessary to analyse and undertake tax reform. Our group, as the minister has said, is not on the Laffer curve, which does not go beyond what is written in a napkin, and it is that the result is always the same: if there are fewer taxes, less money to finance public services, cuts, contraction of spending and in addition to investment. On some of the criticisms regarding the increase in market volatility due to the lack of liquidity that this tax could entail, we consider that, of course, one of the main factors driving market volatility is the short-term operation itself through complex financial instruments. As for the collection figure, whether it is going to be greater or less, because we believe that the important thing is not so much the figure, but the sense of taxation. As for the generation of distortion, we understand that if the design was formulated correctly, we wouldn't have to worry too much. As for the fact that if the rate is given in the European framework in a homogeneous way it would go to its own budget, it must be said that Spain, even if it went to that budget, would also benefit from the Community budget. This tax will not harm users of banking services, as it is intended to tax sales on a medium and large scale of financial assets, an operation that is not daily for most users. When the need for this tax was raised through some GNP over the years, we heard that if it was accepted or imposed unilaterally Spain would become a financial island in Europe, and I always wondered why this statement was made, because France has it and has not become any island. If we really want taxation to be used to redistribute the wealth created by development, taxes must be fair, progressive, stimulating the real economy and penalizing financial speculation. I would like to point out that my group has tabled certain amendments to exclude from the tax the acquisition of shares of EPSVs and pension funds, in order to prevent their ability to generate returns for future pensioners from diminishing. It does not seem reasonable to impose a tax on non-profit-making pension schemes, since this would entail lower amounts of supplementary pensions and, according to experts, whether improvements are necessary for the implementation and further development of supplementary schemes, in order, inter alia, to contribute to the sustainability of public pension systems, the imposition of this tax on the same ones we believe would go in the opposite direction. We are not going to oppose this tax, we will be careful to deal with any shortcomings that we might see, and we will therefore vote against the amendments as a whole. Finally, Minister - and as always when we talk about taxes - I would like to remind you that there are five estates in the State, and that is why we will ask for the agreement between the governments in the Joint Committee on Concertation and the Navarro Convention to be able to conclude the normative capacity, sanctioning, inspector and the establishment of the points of connection of this tax on the basis of the Law on Concertation and the Convention. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u16	Thank you, Madam President. The free movement of capital, the foundation of capitalist globalization, has led to large movements of funds that can be transferred to any country at the time of its interest. We agree that these movements, so far exempt from taxation, must be taxed, but the truth is that it could have gone further because - by delimiting it to the acquisition of shares of Spanish companies and provided that the value of stock capitalization of the company exceeds 1000 million euros - it leaves out many particularly speculative financial transactions, which leads us to that tax being limited to a collection objective, renouncing another necessary objective such as that of regulating the financial markets and reducing speculative interests. In any case, even with its limitation, we consider this to be the right path. We have been reiterating that this crisis cannot be paid for by the same people - the workers and the people - and, in order not to do so, the only alternative is to seek resources from those who have the most. In addition to other measures that we have been demanding - recovery of the bank rescue fund, reduction of military spending or nationalization of the large corporations of the strategic sectors - a new tax policy that graves the big corporations and the big fortunes is essential. One example is Portugal, which is currently dealing with a solidarity rate on banking to help pay for the exit from the crisis generated by COVID-19. In our view, this is the direction in which we need to move forward, and we will therefore oppose the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u18	Thank you very much, President. Who makes a financial transaction every week? Who? Are the workers, the self-employed, those who are already trying to manage this vital minimum income today, those who are early? Spain that is early, is it early to make a financial transaction? The ones who lift the blind? They lift the blind and they're going to make a financial transaction. Here's the thing. The right has been opposed to the paguita for days and in the end until the right macho became right coward and did not dare to vote no, as he had been doing every week. But, look!, when we talk about those who move huge amounts of money looking for high returns, there the cowardly right gets macho again. The minister has said so, it is a modest, limited tax. The most speculative figures remain out, such as foreign exchange transactions or derivatives transactions. But there the right one rips his clothes and pulls out his true face: the defenders of the great, as always. Look, a financial transaction of EUR 1 million would pay EUR 2000. Man, who has 1 million euros can well contribute 2000 euros. And I'm done. A modest person who makes a transaction of 1000 euros, would pay 2, the price of a soda, a beer or a coffee. I think you do a lot of demagogy, a lot of demagogy, and, in the end, you always end up pulling out your real face, the one that defends the powerful. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u19	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u20	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote against these amendments as a whole. We too would have liked a European regulation, but the truth is that we have been trying for many years and it has not been possible. However, we urge the Government to continue working to generate this consensus in Europe, because the tax would surely be much more efficient overall. It seems to us relatively reasonable - and do not listen to other voices at the moment, Minister - to the approach they make. We have to see how the tax evolves; some may find it very modest, but in any case, the approach seems reasonable to us. Even so, we have tabled thirteen partial amendments to see if the project can be improved in its initial planning. Having said that, Minister, we too ask you, the Socialist Party, the United Nations, not only in the speeches, but in the materialization of these speeches. Why? I will give you an example of how much coherence is needed in government action. We will approve this tax, the financial transaction tax, within a few days. As this tax is configured and according to the market capitalization value of the companies in the Spanish state, we will tax the transactions on shares of certain companies that the shareholders carry out. When you buy and sell shares from a company, we will tax you with this 0.2% to get income. And what are we going to spend that income on? Paradoxically, you have approved the Royal Decree-Law 11/2020, by which you are going to give an important part, 15 million euros, completely lost to companies that then tax their shareholders the transaction of 0,2 % and what this company is going to enter from the transactions is much less - not a third - than we are going to enter through 0,2 % on their shares. We will therefore maintain some consistency on the revenue side and on the expenditure side. We agree with the strategy of the circular economy - I told you a few days ago - but we must be consistent with government actions. With the Royal Decree-Law 15/2020 you reduce to 0% the VAT of ninety and one sanitary devices. Do you know what the paradox is? They are 90 and a single-use and reusable health products, those that would be part of the circular economy strategy, let them continue to tax 21 %, which is sometimes inconsistent with actions and speeches and sometimes inconsistent with some and other actions of the same Government. We therefore urge you to seek this consistency. In any case, we will have time to discuss these thirteen amendments. Let us hope that some of them will be incorporated and that they will not change the initial approach of this tax, Minister. Let's see how it works, let's assess its collection efficiency and impact on the market over a year or a year and a half and then let's look at whether to modify or expand the tax base or the tax rate. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u22	Thank you, President. Deputies and deputies, good morning. Minister, good morning. This morning we again discussed three amendments to the whole tabled by the right and the extreme right to the financial transaction tax. What a novelty! We debate a tax on wealth, on capital, on those who speculate and on those who have more, and the right and the extreme right come out in their defense. Nothing new. We are not surprised to see that we find ourselves in your ideological antipodes and where you only see arguments of rejection, we see an opportunity to equate, once and for all, the income of work with that of capital. An opportunity to get more revenue, in a context of increasing public spending and, above all, an opportunity to disincentive and end practices associated with financial speculation. Although tax collection is often identified with State funding, the two main functions of a tax system are redistribution and regulation. It is redistributed when we finance universal health and education with taxes, as we make them available to many who would otherwise have no access, and we regulate when we tax one activity and not another. It can be said that in the Spanish State it is less redistributed than in the rest of the European Union and that it is regulated worse. Or does it make any sense to pay more to a worker than to a renter? No sense and we sent a very wrong message. The tax on financial transactions, known as the Tobin tax, was born with the idea of penalizing speculative movements against currencies; in this case, to deter financial speculation by taxing capital movements. But this rate is also like a kind of Guadiana river, which emerges in times of crisis and, once they have passed, disappears. The EU, for example, rescued it during the 2008 crisis and, to date, has not yet been implemented. It had to be a new EU own resource and it seemed very relevant, as the international financial crisis was the result of the multiplication of uncompromising financial operations in the real economy. From our group, from the Republican Left, we have always supported this rate throughout the European Union and we think that its implementation at European level is the most appropriate for this type of tax, due to the total freedom of capital movements and the volume they have in the Union. In fact, it seems to us that at the Spanish level the flow of this tax will be limited and that the collection will be closer to the 400 million euros estimated by the AIReF, than to the 1 billion that you, the government, calculate. We continue to believe that a tax is needed on the sale of financial assets that would affect mainly those who move large amounts of money in search of high returns. We are talking about taxing speculative operations with the aim of discouraging them and encouraging investments into productive activities. We believe that the difficult moment we are experiencing is the right one to support the real economy - the productive one, that of the workers, that of the small self-employed and that of the small and medium-sized enterprises - and to tax the speculative economy. In Republican Left we have always defended social justice. That is why we are independent, because we know that being part of this state is never going to be possible, because we know that the Spanish state is irreformable because, govern those who rule, they always win the same: the usual economic oligopolies, the IBEX 35, which has been puffed up to earn money during the last few months. We understand that the creation of this tax is good news but could have been more ambitious. We believe that the tax base should be broadened and a greater number of financial transactions should be taxed. Here we are somewhat surprised by the role of the left; of the PSOE we didn't expect much, but surely of the United We can, yes. What about derivative contracts, intraday transactions, limits of up to 1 billion market value? Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, we now have the opportunity to really tax financial transactions, especially the most speculative ones. Let's take advantage of it. The debate on this tax is not from now on, I have heard you at other times in Parliament being much more ambitious. You call yourselves the most progressive government in history; prove it. There is still a parliamentary road to this tax, we have tabled amendments to this effect and we hope to discuss them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs López Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u24	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. We have been discussing fiscal policy this morning, as you will have seen. This is interesting because, really, you can see the differences between the right and the left. In economic terms, it is most visible: what do you want, whether you are involved or not? Incentivizing supply or demand? Do you want to put an end to social differences? We do not want the market to be completely free; we must intervene, of course, for the good of all; we want to reduce inequalities, to put an end to them, if it can be; and we want to encourage demand, provided it is respectful of people and nature. Today we are discussing amendments to the whole that have been tabled by VOX, Citizens and PP; they are unacceptable amendments. They have explained why saying that there is no bibliography that supports that that is a good rate. I summarize your interventions in: we don't want it because it doesn't suit our little friends. It's not good for your little friends. Stop disguised as false excuses; this is what always happens. In the school yard it's always the same, those who do bullying cover each other. It's the same thing. Since I have time, I will go a little further than the summary and I will explain to you why these amendments as a whole are unacceptable. They are unacceptable because they are classists, because they tell lies and, as I told them, they do not listen to science, to economic science, to political science, to social science and not to empiricism. They don't listen. They don't listen to the needs of most people. Moreover, they are inconsistent with what they have said in the past, they are inconsistent with each other, they make no sense. As you see, we have reason to reject your amendments, but I am not going to address any of you personally, because lately this room, this Congress, is becoming a circus and I do not want to see - I do not want to see - any situation as frightening as that seen in a bullring and which we are seeing here. We're talking about pricing a commercial fact, a commercial fact that's not taxed. You accept that real estate companies charge a commission; a commission of 100 per cent of the rental value of a month, something that, by the way, prevents many people from accessing a home, a right recognized by the Constitution. There's no problem with that, in the real estate commissions. Why? Because this is going to the private arks, isn't it? But since taxes go to public coffers, they don't like it that much. They like commissions, envelopes and private coffers more. The taxes that our welfare state sustains do not like them; they only like them when they are paid by the working classes, the poor classes and the middle classes, the classes that, after spending all year working, that can sometimes not even go to the dentist to fix their mouths, then the income statement comes and they have to pay more than you and can not. They like those taxes, but when they touch their little friends, they don't like them anymore. The bill, as you have commented and read, only envisages paying 0.2%. As fellow Joan said, alongside the amount of these transactions, what is 0,2 %? It is a small payment or, as you like to say in your vocabulary, a 'paguito'. It is a 'paguito'; a 'paguito' in exchange for strengthening the productive economy, which is at the service of people, not markets; a 'paguito' in exchange for strengthening the quality of our economy, because we do not want a low cost economy. You insult our companies when you say you're going to lose competitiveness if we tax them. Our companies are able to innovate, they are able to gain in quality and so they will be more competitive. What do you think, it's just a matter of price? They don't understand anything, nothing, no economy; they only understand pockets. They are asked 0.2% - 0.2% - to maintain our health, for example, because we are going to add a little bit to the public coffers, as I said to them, but, of course, for you that health is private, although they are not exclusive in this either. In Catalonia we also have those who do favors to Ferrovial, but govern. I mean, they don't have the exclusivity in that. In 2008, the crisis was caused by the speculation of the markets and we paid the usual ones: the young people, who did not find employment; the older than forty-five, who did not find it in many cases and have not yet found it after so many years, and the women, the same women that we have been supporting with care the crisis of COVID. And the previous crisis was paid by our pensioners. Speaking of pensioners, what do you say, that savings from pension funds are going to be affected? They just have no idea. First, it's a lie. And second, our main savings - our main savings - is our public pension system. This is our main savings and our main pride, and that is why we need to raise more, to have a strong state that helps keep all people's pensions, not just their little friends. There's no tax. If we want a welfare state, we need taxes; taxes that are up to these times, like this and the one we discussed last week. Stop showing, please, that you are looking for the good of people and families. Defending the welfare state but not saying how to pay is hypocritical. You don't have to. Stop fooling around. Say: We don't want it, and that's it; we're going to privatize everything. Stop telling lies and stop being the court abusers, please. Before I finish - I finish, President - I thank Mr Bel for making recommendations on coherence. I believe that coherence is good in life and, more than anything, in politics. You should talk to your colleagues in Catalonia, because if you want us to have a strong welfare state, as you say here, I remind you that in Catalonia your party has the power to govern and you can decide to enlarge the welfare state, which has not happened. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lopez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u26	Good morning, President. Deputies, yesterday was a very special day, a historic day. Fortunately, a policy needed to solve a structural problem that existed and that existed in this country, namely poverty and, more specifically, child poverty, was addressed and adopted. But today is also an important day, because we come to address another structural problem, which is an unbalanced tax system. We have to do it in part because we are required by law, tribute to tribute. It is unbalanced, on the one hand, because it lacks collection capacity and does not guarantee article 135 of the Constitution. And, on the other hand, it does not have the sufficient progressiveness required by article 31 of the Spanish Constitution itself. We have a tax system that collects little and that falls primarily on the middle working class of this country. I bring a document that reflects the situation in which our tax system is located. [[Show a chart]] This is the result of our tax system: tax revenues of 39.1%. We are in the tail van with Romania, Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia and Malta. Is that the place that belongs to us? We are more than 14 points from Denmark, which is the most public revenue, and 13.5 points from France. I ask you a question: Where do you want to be? In the tail van with Estonia, Romania and Bulgaria? Or do we deserve to be in the lead group? It is not fiscal pressure, but it is that these countries have a stronger welfare state, that these countries have a more powerful economy, that these countries have the highest quality in their employment. Here's the precariousness and here's the unprotectiveness. There is protection and employment. This is the strong economy, where we want to be and we deserve an agreed tax system. [[Applauds]] What conditions does a new tax have to comply with? That's tax theory and do-it-yourself theory. First of all, it has to have collection capacity. Sure! If you don't have the capacity to collect a tax, what good is it to us? Although there may be other types of taxes, which are dissuasive taxes, in this case the important thing is the ability to collect the tax. It has to have another condition, which is to bring equity. By the way, the capacity is quantified: 850 million euros. France is collecting 1 billion, Italy is collecting 650 and our estimate is intermediate. As I said, the second condition is equity. It must be made clear that this tax will not be paid by the savers, it is a lie. Read what the bill says. In this case, the taxable person of the tax is the financial intermediaries; it would be an economic translation, never a legal translation. Therefore, there is no need to assume on the part of the saver or investor; in this case, they are the financial intermediaries. Therefore, it brings equity. It must be an efficient tax. I've heard Mr. Manso here talk about efficiency. He doesn't know what efficiency is. Conceptually, efficiency is the relationship between means and ends. Well, in this tax the administrative burdens are minimal and the result we are seeing is the capacity to collect. How do you say it's not efficient? They are situations of taxation by means of self-liquidation that will be practiced by the corresponding financial intermediary, once the purchase of the shares has been settled. By the way, in the secondary market; by the way, companies with a stock market capital of more than EUR 1 billion. Therefore, these are the conditions: equity, collection capacity and efficiency, and meet them in their entirety. You are presenting three amendments. The People's Party is incoherent. I got the headlines. [[Shows photocopy of a newspaper headline]] Mr Montoro: The Tobin rate will contribute 640 million to the public coffers. [[Applauds]] Mr Montoro included it, by the way, in the 2014–2015 Stability Plan. Moreover, who pushed it mainly in the Member States was a right-wing party with Nicolas Sarkozy, and now you say this. When they rule, yes, but when they don't, no. But I'll bring another one. [[Shows another newspaper headline]] Mr Montoro said: I defend a rise in taxes on large companies in order to preserve social cohesion. Are you talking about lowering taxes now? Do you have any memory? Do you know that in this crisis, curiously, the fall in GDP is going to be higher in less than a year than the fall in GDP that took place in the five years, from 2009 to 2013, of the previous crisis? And you put them down? No, all taxes went up, fifty taxes. They approved a tax amnesty for 30,000 fraudsters, legalized fraud in this country. They carried out cuts of 25 billion euros, Rajoy cut more than Trump, the citizen. And he says the reason is because the same thing will happen as with the tax he was called on the mortgage. The result of that royal decree, to transfer the tax on legal acts from bank clients to financial institutions, has been that we are at the lowest interest rates in history. You said: it's that interest rates are going to rise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u27	Mr. Hurtado, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u28	I'm done. The financial costs of the mortgage are the lowest in history. And I'm going to refer to Mr. de VOX. You are truly Trump's sons. [[Rumors]] They're barbarians. And I take the headline to Mr. Manso, who's the spokesman who's been here today. The headline of the paper, which I didn't bring - look what a coincidence! - He said, "You have to lower taxes on the rich, you have to charge the welfare state. The State can only be left with justice, with the army and with security, which privatize health and education. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u29	Mr. Hurtado, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u30	What would have happened to this country during the pandemic if we had not had a public health system? It is a system that, by law, we need to improve with more public resources. We need to have more welfare, more social security and more protection, and we will do all this thanks to the road map marked by the progressive government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u31	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's gallery.-Rumores.-Mr. Manso Olivar asks for the floor.]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. You don't have the floor. - DRAFT ORGANIZATIONAL LAW ON THE USE OF DATA FROM THE REGISTRATION OF PASSENGER NAMES FOR THE PREVENTION, DETECTION, INVESTIGATION AND JUDGMENT OF TERRORISM AND SERIOUS DELIVERIES. [[File number 121/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u32	Discussion of the draft Organic Law on the Use of Passenger Name Record Data for the Prevention, Detection, Investigation and Prosecution of Terrorist and Serious Crimes. For the presentation of the bill, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of the Interior. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before the House to set the Government's position on the amendment to the full refund proposed by the Plural Parliamentary Group to the draft Organic Law on the Use of Passenger Names for the Prevention, Detection, Investigation and Prosecution of Serious Crimes, better known as the Organic Law on the Passenger Name Record or PNR System, by its acronyms in English. I have already told you that the Government is showing the rejection of this amendment to the whole of the Plural Group's submission to this organic bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government's position against this amendment as a whole is based on three main reasons: commitment to our European partners, consistency with respect for fundamental rights guarantees and a lack of argument for the amendment itself as a whole. Madam President, this progressive government is also, as President Sánchez has said on numerous occasions, a government of deep European convictions. If something brings together the different generations of Spaniards and Spaniards that we are currently in this House, they are the undoubted benefits that European integration has brought to our country for more than three decades. I would dare to say that if something unites above the political discrepancies with the vast majority of ideological families represented in this Congress, it is our common desire to deepen the process of European construction. Process, ladies and gentlemen, is a concept involving rights, but also involving commitments, and transposing the PNR directive into our legal system is one of them. Madam President, the European Commission presented in February 2011 the draft directive on the use of passenger name registration data for the detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crime offences, known - as we have said - as PNR. It is a directive that was adopted by Parliament and the Council on 27 April 2016, an extremely complex directive, ladies and gentlemen, as you well know, simply reviewing the temporary space that runs between its submission and final approval: more than five years. It is extraordinarily complex because it affects related aspects, I believe, at the heart of the European project, the protection of our fundamental rights and our public freedoms, which have led to a very complex process of drawing up a standard in which the then 28 governments of the Union, as well as all the different agencies and bodies of the European Union, participated. I would specifically like to highlight the contributions of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights - FRA - but also of the European Data Protection Supervisor. The result is the creation of a PNR operating system, which allows us to balance our right to security with the protection of our fundamental rights, especially those related to privacy and privacy. This balance is the one that forms part of the draft organic law that we are debating in this session; a draft law that is the result of a commitment to our membership of the European Union, because transposing directives is an obligation of every Member State, but which is especially urgent, ladies and gentlemen, because the PNR directive has already been transposed by all the Member States of the European Union except ours, except Spain. The deadline given by the European Union to governments to transpose the PNR Directive expired more than two years ago, in particular on 25 May 2018. This, like other issues to which I referred in other sessions, was also a flagrant breach of the People's Party governments that I met when I took office as Minister of the Interior, I suppose because the right-wing governments devoted their efforts to other types of policies within the Ministry. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must comply with a transposition that has been delayed by the inaction of the governments of the People's Party and that our electoral calendar has postponed, causing, with the end of the XII Legislature, the bill that the Government sent to Congress in December 2018, which could not be resumed during the XIII Legislature, given its short duration. Failure to transpose the PNR directive would be a lack of commitment to the European project, but it would also constitute an infringement for our country that would lead to economic sanctions at a delicate time. Specifically, we can say that it would amount to a lump sum, with a daily amount of around EUR 20 000, to be paid from 25 May 2018, the last date of transposition, until the directive is processed. It would also entail a fine of around EUR 90 000 per day from the date of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union declaring non-compliance until its final transposition. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment does not make sense to the refoulement proposed to us by the Plural Group, because we have the obligation, but also the commitment to deal with this PNR directive in this draft organic law; a draft organic law consistent with the protection - as we have said - of security and respect for the fundamental rights of all citizens. Madam President, this draft organic law transposes the content of the PNR directive and falls within the principle of fair cooperation in Article 4.3 of the Treaty on European Union. In this draft organizational law we have had input from all departments of the Government and the competent administrations in the area of security and data protection. We've put him through citizen consultation. It has the mandatory report of bodies as relevant as the General Council of the Judiciary, the Fiscal Council, the Spanish Data Protection Agency and the Council of State, which with their contributions have undoubtedly improved transposition and ensured that it is consistent with our constitutional system of fundamental rights and public freedoms. I am sure that during its parliamentary procedure the amendments of the various parliamentary groups will undoubtedly improve their final content. Ladies and gentlemen, this project pursues four main objectives. Firstly, to strengthen the fight against crime and terrorism through the proper processing of PNR data. Secondly, to create a regulatory framework for the Spanish passenger information unit, the only entity competent to receive, process, analyse and, in the event of a threat, transmit PNR data to the competent authorities with respect to the procedure and guarantees of any rule of law. Thirdly, to provide legal security for companies operating in the air sector, defining their rights, but also their duties. Fourthly, it seeks to ensure full respect for the fundamental rights of passengers, in particular the privacy and protection of their personal data, with guaranteed systems and effective controls. Good examples of this fourth objective are the retention period of PNR data - which six months after its receipt will be depersonalized by masking and will only be allowed access to them under very strict conditions and under very specific circumstances - and the fact that data processing can only be given to specific and particularly serious criminal types, such as terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this bill is not to give anyone a blank cheque for the sake of general security; it is to clearly define its use in the face of particularly serious cases of crime against State security, and it is to do so in a manner controlled by the procedures of the rule of law and monitored permanently by the Spanish Data Protection Agency, because the necessary balance between the protection of fundamental rights and the fight against terrorism and serious crime is the guiding criterion for this rule. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the whole of which we are debating today, and which I am responsible for setting the opposite position on the part of the Government, is based on just over four arguments which I would like to briefly rebut. Firstly, it is stated that since 11 September 2001 in Europe, citizens' security has been invoked as a pretext for limiting fundamental rights and public freedoms; nothing further from reality, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, let me recall various milestones of the Union, such as the creation of the European Agency for Fundamental Rights in 2007, the FRA, or the deepening of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Secondly, by following this specific rule, ladies and gentlemen, we are not faced with arbitrary or improvised regulations that limit our freedoms overnight. It is enough for me to recall that this directive - as I said at the beginning of my presentation - is born after five years of work, as well as the contributions of all the governments and agencies of the Union, in particular those relating to data protection and fundamental rights, and reaffirm to me the contributions that, as I have already mentioned, have made to this text bodies as important in the protection of our fundamental rights as the General Council of the Judiciary, the Fiscal Council, the Spanish Data Protection Agency and the Council of State. The second argument on which this amendment is based as a whole constitutes for the proposing parliamentary group that the exercise of these fundamental rights and public freedoms is no longer subject to the limits of the Spanish Constitution and of international conventions in this field, to which Spain is a party, with regard to the suspicion of crime and judicial supervision. On this second point, and in this regard, I would like to reiterate one idea: there is no contradiction between the draft organic law and the Spanish legal system with regard to the protection of the exercise of fundamental rights. In this respect, the maximum recognition of the exercise of the right to privacy and data protection is carried out within the framework of the European Union Data Protection Regulation, which, moreover, I would remind you, is national law in Spain. As a third argument, the proposer group affirms that this organic law is an instrument of control and censorship of ways of acting and circulating that can be considered a priori as suspicious, and I must say that this is not the case at all, ladies and gentlemen. I remind you at this point of the deadline for the use of data, but above all that the treatment of data can only be given to particularly serious criminal types and always under judicial control and supervision, so there is no persecution of all kinds of proceedings, nor of freedom of movement or expression, the free exercise of which is fully guaranteed. Finally, they refer in their amendment to the totality of avoiding periodic pressure from those who seek control of communications and personal data without the consent of the parties concerned or due judicial control. I must say that I fully agree, ladies and gentlemen, that is why this PNR directive has had such a long and complex elaboration, in which practically all European operators have participated in the protection of data and rights. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this organic bill has also been subject to citizen consultation and improved by the intervention of the above-mentioned institutions. I'm done, Madam President. It was a Spanish, Segovian, Andrés Laguna, who in 1543 wrote one of the first texts proposing European integration. Among all the lessons that his speech on Europe gives us, I am left with one that has great relevance today: There is no strength in disunity. As a European, I cannot be more convinced of this statement in many areas, including security, where complex forms of serious crime, such as terrorism or organised crime, require greater cooperation and coordination between the Member States, without, of course, implying or implying limitations on the fundamental rights and freedoms of all citizens. I therefore conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by setting the Government's position against this amendment as a whole and calling for the support of all parliamentary groups for the draft organic law in its parliamentary procedure, where I am sure that with the amendments already tabled we will enrich the text, always establishing the precise and necessary balance, with preference for fundamental rights and freedoms, but not obviating that security is the concrete space where we can develop our fundamental rights and freedoms with the necessary guarantees and guarantees. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u34	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. An amendment to the full refund has been submitted to this bill. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor to defend the amendment tabled, Mr Rego Candaimil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you define yourselves as a progressive government. I am sorry to say - and if I am sorry it is because this affects us all - that the trajectory of rights and freedoms in recent times does not believe that at all, rather it goes on worrying paths, of which this law, to which the BNG presents an amendment to the totality of return, is a good example. Here we are again faced with a hypothetical dilemma between freedom and security, a dilemma that we reject because, without freedom, security is only a fiction. Following the attacks of the 11th century, we believe that security has become the main obsession of Western governments and that the protection of citizens from hypothetical future terrorist attacks has been used as an excuse to put into operation policies that limit public rights and freedoms, deepening the control measures of the population for, theoretically, their own protection and well-being. Thus, at European level, as has been said, a directive has been issued to be transposed into the various domestic legal systems that are at the origin of this draft organic law, the procedure of which was initiated - it should be recalled - by the People's Party Government and is now continued by the coalition between the PSOE and the United Podemos. [[The Lord]] In our view, it is a misguided measure that affects a number of decisions, measures and actions that impede or violate rights and freedoms. The fundamental rights contained in the Spanish Constitution and in various international rules should be limited only in cases where the same rules are collected under judicial supervision and where there are substantial suspicions of the commission of an offence. But here we are faced with an intolerable, in our view, collective invasion of the privacy of people and their data on a preventive basis, without evidence of the commission of crimes. Thus, in our view, this new legislation may violate the right to personal and family privacy and, in particular, article 18.4 of the Constitution, which states - I quote -: The law will limit the use of computer technology to guarantee the personal and family honour and privacy of citizens and the full exercise of their rights. If this regulation were adopted, the privacy of citizens would be undermined, placing in the hands of the State and those entities in which the personal data of any airline passenger could be terminated. Unfortunately, this law is not an isolated act. The health, social and economic crisis caused by the coronavirus has occupied everything, from the concerns of the people to the focus of information, almost exclusively, so that it can hide worrying actions that put at risk, when they do not directly violate, democratic rights and public freedoms. Some of these actions arose precisely in support of the state of alarm decreed on 14 March and others come from before and endure. It is true that the democratic quality of the Spanish State has already been questioned many times; it is not a question of reviewing here in detail all the violation of rights as a result of political and judicial decisions, just of recalling some recent things. For example, three days ago rapper Hasel was convicted of allusions to these corrupt bourbons, which must be investigated and definitively eliminated from the political life of the Spanish State; other rappers, the twelve of La Insurgency, have been tried and are awaiting sentence for the lyrics of their songs. It seems that in the Spanish State freedom of expression must pass through the courts; a State in which there are political prisoners for whom we demand freedom or who have a process under way, Operation Jaro, against twelve Galician independenceists and which includes the claim to illegalize a political organization and another associated, Cause Galicia and Cevar. There is no need to delve further into this because reality is clearly visible. We start from the fact that the law on citizen security, the law on gags, which has not yet been repealed by the Government, is still in force and in force, despite the two years that have passed since the motion of censure and that it was a commitment both of the Socialist Party and of Podemos. The serious thing is that not only did they not repeal it, but it was this government that applied the law most: more than a million sanctions in just three months compared to approximately 800,000 of the previous four years. And, worst of all, unnecessary and inappropriate use was made of it on the basis of an instruction sent by the Ministry of the Interior to government delegations to transfer it to the police forces on how to act to enforce the state of alarm. Inadequate and unnecessary, first, because despite the fact that Royal Decree 463/2020, in relation to the violations provided for in it, refers generically to the laws, the instruction points directly to the application of Law 4/2015, Law bites, when punishing, in particular article 36.6, which considers serious violations, punishable by fines ranging from 601 to 30 000 euros, serious disobedience or resistance to authority by its agents in the exercise of their functions. In addition, this is complemented by a description of the defendant's attitude, which considers the offender's inappropriate attitude to anything that is not resigned acceptance of the complaint, which would result in a minimum penalty for contempt, boasting or ill-education of 2000 euros, but which could reach 10,400 euros. In any case, according to lawyers, the instruction is not in accordance with law and the State's own Advocate General indicates in a report that for non-compliance with the state of alarm article 36 of the Law gags are not applicable, unless the request of the authority is disregarded; a report that Interior has clearly ignored. A major, in addition to not repealing the People's Party's Browsing Law, the PSOE government approved in October 2019 the one known as the Digital Browsing Decree, validated with the votes in favor of the People's Party, Citizens' Party, PSOE and the abstention of United Podemos. The decree, which was sold as an action against the Catalan digital republic, actually allows for the limitation of freedom of expression on the Internet, even without judicial control or authorization, and therefore constitutes a serious threat to a fundamental right and is not a democratic system. With the declaration of the state of alarm, we accept for common interest the temporary restriction of certain rights, such as that of movement, but under this circumstance there were situations that do not coincide with a truly democratic State. The militarized staging, with uniforms starring every day the press conferences on a health crisis or parade through the streets, more typical of a state of emergency than a state of alarm, was only the visible face, but we do not escape that it had an obvious political intention. But let's see that this kind of preventive action, this particular minority report that provides for this law, has already been rehearsed this week during the state of alarm. To see it we just have to refer to the statements of the Minister of the Interior at the press conference on April 15, in which he reported that officials of the Interior were tracking social networks in order - I quote - to check some speeches that may be dangerous or criminal. That is to say, he admits that they seek opinions which, without being criminal, they consider - we ask in who's opinion - dangerous. Sources of the Ministry of the Interior later confirmed that this was the case, because - I quote - there are elements that we see every day that, without being criminal, try to intoxicate, cause discomfort and manipulate public opinion. In what democratic state is the police empowered to determine what is a dangerous opinion? Dangerous are, in our view, these kinds of actions, which are also publicly recognized with total normality. But this does not seem to be the result of an impulsive and free action by the Minister of the Interior. The CIS's question in its penultimate survey on whether information about the coronavirus could only come from official sources goes in this same direction, and both directly violate freedom of expression. As I said, the fight against the epidemic seems to cover everything, but it cannot justify everything. What reason will there then be for any other matter which the Government considers to be of particular public interest not to attempt to limit the information to official sources? And once again, in which democratic State can only the information provided by the Government be disclosed? The limitation of democratic rights and public freedoms is unfortunately here, and the risks of serious violations in the future are evident: the law on gags, the decree on digital gags, instructions to the police that exceed even the legal provisions, the militarization of a health emergency, the sweeping of social networks of dangerous opinions, the CIS probe balloon for the limitation of freedom of information and now the law for the control of plane tickets. In the BNG we have no doubt that if all these measures were to be implemented by the People's Party there would be a strong rejection movement; but if a government that is called progressive, made up of parties that define themselves from the left, does right-wing politics and implements measures that restrict public rights and freedoms is exactly the same as dangerous and deserves exactly the same rejection. That is why we reject this law, because it can also give rise to censorship, even though the Minister denies it, and to control certain ways of thinking, acting, of circulating that are to be considered suspicious and therefore a priori controlled by the authorities. The jeus puniendi of the State can only refer to real behaviors, not future or supposed, unless we want to get into the dystopia definitively. Therefore, I conclude, we must avoid legal excesses and pressures - yes, we must avoid pressures - that periodically happen for access to citizens' data without the express consent of citizens or without judicial control. The monitoring of communications and personal data should be considered a highly intrusive act, which violates the rights to privacy and freedom of expression and threatens the foundations of any democratic society. That is why this law is no guarantee for our safety. On the contrary, we are clear that it is a danger to our freedom. Thank you very much. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u36	Based on what article? What consideration? [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u37	I pray that this expression that in Spain...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u38	I haven't given him the floor yet. In fact, it does not, because it has not violated the Rules of Procedure in my view. On other occasions, when I believed it, I thought so. Not on this occasion. So you don't have the floor. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon utters words that are not perceived]] We continue with the debate. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u39	Thank you very much, President. The obligation to record the names of users of certain services in respect of certain persons obliged to do so, as well as the obligation to communicate them to the public security authorities, is not an issue outside the legal system in force in the State. Thus, Chapter IV of the Law on Citizen Security provides for these same obligations for cases of activities relevant to citizen security, including the transport of persons along with other well-known ones, and also prior to the Law on Citizen Security, such as - to name a few - commercial access to telephone services; the rental and dismantling of vehicles; the security lock; the sale of weapons, cartridges and explosives precursors; the sale of works of art and others that I will not mention now and which I refer to the reading of Article 25.1 of the Law on Citizen Security and other legislation, such as that which establishes certain obligations and limitations to owners of high-speed craft and light aircraft. It is in this regulatory group, whose ultimate objective is the protection of the life and safety of citizens, that the draft organic law transposing Directive 2016/681, the directive known as PNR, of the registration of passengers' data and which contributes to the consolidation in the Union of the uniform area of freedom, security and justice, which serves and protects citizens in the face of the threat of organised crime and terrorism, through, as has already been stated, high standards of security and also through a guaranteed legal framework for the protection and processing of personal data of that airpass. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the transposition of a directive of Parliament and of the Council which is binding on the legal order of the Member States, without the Member States being able to reject fully that transposition or even changes which distort it on the basis of a so-called national identity check, along with the doctrine of the annulment of the pre-civil war in the United States, as the professor and former President of the Constitutional Court, Mr Cruz Villalón, reminded us these days. The questioning of the principle of the primacy of Union law would mean that, if a Member State could decide which EU rules apply or cease to apply, the Union's legal order would crumble. As the Court of Justice of the European Union has pointed out, on the occasion of the recent judgment of the German Federal Constitutional Court, the Karlsruhe Court, which called into question the primacy of Union law and its maximum interpreter: The supremacy of Union law is the only way to guarantee the equality of States within the Union. It can be added to this statement by the Court of Justice of the Union that the Community system is the backbone which holds the Union together. Ladies and gentlemen, for these reasons we cannot give our support to the amendment to the whole with a request for a return to the Government that we are now debating, for the purpose of claiming that there is no preventive control of the passage by sending the identification data of the passage for comparison to the security authorities, for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting terrorist offences and serious crime, which is precisely what the NIS directive determines and without, as I said, being able to oppose the fact that it entails an unjustified limitation of the rights and freedoms of citizens, which we certainly do not share either. For these reasons - and I am finalizing, President - we will not support the amendment as a whole with a proposal to return the draft organic law discussed to the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u40	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you. Then, for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr Cambronero Piqueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As I said last week, and every time I intervene in this plenary, my first words will be to remind all those who have fallen into this pandemic, to accompany the thousands of families - we do not know how many - who have lost a loved one in the worst possible conditions. Also, to honor our health care providers, our State Security Forces and Corpses, the Army and all personnel considered essential; tributes and job improvements are what we want for them. Today we are discussing the draft organic law on the use of passenger name registration data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crimes. This bill corresponds to the transposition of the PNR directive, as we have already mentioned. I have to say that we are the last country to incorporate this legislation into our domestic legal system, which is one more cause for shame and concern; concern because we are facing the sanctions of the European Union and concern, above all, because we are putting the security strategy of the whole European Union at risk. In January of this year, Citizens asked a question, precisely, about the excessive delay in the incorporation of this legislation into domestic law. In fact, if it had been transposed in due course, Venezuela's illegitimate vice-president could not have landed in our country, precisely because she had violated fundamental rights. Remember the Dalcygate? We have not forgotten, and I hope you will not forget them either. It is clear that the current situation has little to do with the specific moment at which this directive was issued. We were on a basis on which most Member States raised their level of terrorist alert by terrible events that cost many Europeans their lives. In Spain we were, and we are, on alert 4 anti-terrorist, one of the highest levels and most measures involved; the State Security Forces and Corpses, the National Police and the Civil Guard continue to implement all of those alert 4 directives. We need certainties, we live the return to normality after a terrible pandemic with dozens of dead Spaniards, a total confinement of three months, with closure of borders and under a terrible economic crisis that threatens especially one of our most productive sectors, tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, we have high-quality tourism and it is a great bulwark for our country, despite the fact that the Government, and more specifically the indescribable Minister of Consumer Affairs, Mr Garzón, believes that it is precarious, that it has little quality and that it does not bring added value. And I wonder, what added value do these statements from Mr Garzón bring to the whole country? That a consumer minister does not yet know that his words can generate irreparable damage should automatically be removed, but, of course, this is the government of the indimissible. Allow me to digress, ladies and gentlemen, but what is being debated today is the security and label that I have already placed on the government of the indimissibles is no less applicable to your figure, Mr Marlaska. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the safety of all Europeans. I do not think that there are any or almost no political groups who oppose this and I say that I believe that it is precisely because United We can, the party of Mr Garzón and Mr Iglesias that governs with Sánchez, is not present in the anti-terrorist pact, nor in the state pact against gender-based violence, and they tried to blow up the Toledo Pact for pensions. In short, a bump. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to open our borders, receive tourists and do so, in addition, with all guarantees of personal and, of course, sanitary security. For what? For tourists to choose our country again. We need security, it is a good of first necessity and we also need certainties, of course. It does not help the Minister of Consumer Affairs' sterile disputes with airlines, nor does it help the Minister of Consumer Affairs to say it openly again, despises and insults the Civil Guard and the National Police, accusing them of what coup attempts are not well known. I asked him in writing and I hope you will answer that. To the Minister of Consumer Affairs I say again: Minister, agreements and not his childish attitude of banner protest. You represent the interests of an entire country. I don't ask you to live up to it because it's asking for pears from the elm, but I do say that if your words aren't more beautiful than silence, don't say them, we'll all thank you. Along with Mr Marlaska, Dolores Delgado, Ábalos and the recent incorporation of Mr Simancas are already part of Sánchez's indimissibles. And the list keeps growing. As for the processing of this organic law, we have to say that we have to adapt it to the specific moment we are living. We cannot afford to create disadvantages with other countries that compete with us as a summer tourist destination and this has to be compatible with standards like these. The secret formula is called consensus and agreement with the affected sectors and actors. If we have to talk about consensus in this House, it is a bit of science fiction, but I do ask you to bury the ax of war in matters like this, because they are very sensitive to the economy of many families in Spain. Let us be responsible and not lose the north, we are talking about combating terrorism. There are groups present here that do not have anything clear. In fact, they do not recognize it when even some have been in their ranks, but, of course, in Citizens we will act with the greatest sense of state. With regard to the amendment to the whole of the BNG, all we have to say is that we do not consider an attitude that is neither reasonable nor reasonable to exclude itself from the European order, which also protects all Spaniards. Another matter is that you, as exclusive nationalists who are, repel anything that smells of progress and the European Union. You talk about limiting rights, and what you do is that you protect yourself. Also, that this norm intends to control the way of thinking, how?, with telepathy? And other considerations that we consider ridiculous. Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, first of all, Spain is bound by Community law to transpose this legislation; second, this rule represents an exponential improvement in the level of security of our borders in the most important aspect, in the preventive field, and third, in the field of data protection, the interference which is based on preserving the scope of protection of fundamental rights is not considered illegitimate, says the Constitutional Court. By the way, again, to finish, I want to continue to thank all the uniformed people, who are so annoying to you, for their magnificent work during the pandemic. Finally, we will, of course, vote against the amendment tabled by the BNG. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u42	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin by saying that we will support the amendment as a whole. We would also like to say that it is the responsibility of the Government to transpose this directive, not ours. We have eight points to talk about, I will try to summarize them quickly in these seven minutes that we have. Firstly, on the transposition of the directive. Transposition of directives by the European Union is a duty of the Member States and their non-compliance can be appealed by the Commission to the ECJ. We know what it is. In this regard, Article 18 of the Directive being transposed provides that Member States shall bring into force, by 25 May 2018 at the latest, the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive. It is therefore clear that the Spanish State is two years late, Minister. And that, together with Denmark, they are the only Member States that have not carried out the transposition. So, they're bad and late. Secondly, on access to personal information by the data subject. The draft organic law is silent on citizens'access to information that the competent authorities have collected about them and stored over the past five years. It is, therefore, an indiscriminate monitoring of the movements, personal and banking data of citizens, without any control, without judicial control and without control of the citizen himself who is the object of an intrusion into his personal and family life, and this right is constitutionally protected, in particular in article 8 of the Constitution. The bill only provides for citizen access in one case and does not address the issue of citizen access to their own information. We ask who will appreciate that high risk? The passenger information unit itself? Third, on serious crimes. The Directive defines serious offences as offences listed in Annex II, which are punishable by deprivation of liberty and imprisonment for a period of not less than three years, in accordance with the national law of a Member State. The principle of proportionality here jumps into the air, seeking in this case the application of a regulation that, let us remember, is aimed at the fight against terrorism, the prevention, detection and investigation and prosecution of crimes to which the legal system ascribes a criminal charge of a much lower entity. We ask: Are all potential terrorist citizens and do they need to be monitored? In the end, they put us in the usual logic: if you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to fear. And that is not how a democratic rule of law works. Fourth, about the tax agency. The inclusion of the State Tax Administration Agency as a competent authority - section 14 of the bill - could be arbitrary because of unnecessary, from our point of view. Of course, access to PNR data does not seem justified in the case of the Tax Agency. Fifth, on the lack of judicial control and authorization. Article 14.2 of the draft law provides that requests for data made by the competent authorities shall be duly substantiated and sufficiently substantiated. The question is, ladies and gentlemen, who controls motivation and sufficiency? Obviously, when the competent authority requesting IPU data from the PNR are the judges and courts, there is nothing to object to; but we would disagree if in the rest of the cases the door is opened to arbitrariness - I repeat, arbitrariness - not to mention the lack of accountability for the decisions taken. We should also point out that access to PNR data by the competent authorities is carried out in the absence of judicial authorization, and this cannot be done. Undoubtedly, a judicial authorization is a much more guaranteed mechanism for the rights and freedoms of citizens than a properly motivated and well-founded request, which, we insist, lacks judicial control. Sixthly, on the relativization of rights and freedoms in the digital sphere. Of course, interference with the rights to personal and family privacy, privacy - which implies the collection and storage of data such as PNRs - would have been the subject of a major controversy, including a public response if it were not for actions in the digital world. Seventh, on the internal flights of the European Union. A more consistent measure in the spirit of the directive and the principle of necessity as a dimension of the principle of proportionality would have been to specify which routes or flights are to be monitored and with what objectives, an option that allows for Article 2.3 of the directive. Eighth, on the adequacy or adequacy of the measures taken. The adequacy or suitability is another of the subprinciples - I am finishing, Mr President, thank you - of the principle of proportionality as interpreted by the European Court of Human Rights. Really, minister, will this make us safer? We asked. Mass and indiscriminate monitoring programmes in the United States, for example, have proved to be sterile. How many terrorists have stopped since the 11th, Minister? And in the meantime, how much personal information has been collected? We asked. The combination of erosion of rights plus massive surveillance has not brought much progress in this field. And we're done...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u44	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u45	Yeah, now I'm done, it's the last sentence. Thank you very much. For this reason, the satisfaction of the sub-principle of proportionality in a strict sense, which requires that the rule be weighted or balanced because it derives from it more benefits or advantages for the general interest than harms on other assets and values in conflict, should be doubted. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u46	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Master Moliner.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u47	Good day. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that I have found frankly illustrative things in my search for documentation for this speech. On the official website of the Department of National Security, what is the old page of the cabinet of the Presidency of the People's Party Government is perfectly explained what the passenger name registration is. And it can be read here that our country has been one of the greatest drivers of this registration in European legislation as a measure that boosts the safety of European citizens, and the text was still more self-evident. The Minister of the Interior, Jorge Fernández Díaz, has defended that the main objective of the large computer systems of security and borders in the field of the Interior must be to strengthen the security of our citizens. Well, you can't stop remembering two things today. The first is of a political nature, and it has already been mentioned here. The 2016 directive did give us a two-year deadline to transpose it, and that deadline, I insist, has been said a lot, expired in May 2018. It seems interesting to recall that at that time the People's Party was still in Moncloa. It is also interesting to ask how the People's Party lost two years not to transpose something that they themselves were constantly describing as frankly vital or as strengthening the security of our citizens. None of us can escape that they did dedicate themselves to creating that famous patriotic police and to acting against political leaders of groups, then in the opposition and now some in the Government, or to meeting in interior offices and telling them: we make a management, this the Prosecutor's Office refines it for you. After all, we've all heard the recordings, it would be absurd if we wanted to deny it now. All of this is but a fine example of the real importance that the People's Party gives to terrorism in practice. All they do is use it as a bold weapon against all those who really need to discredit for their democratic talent or for being political rivals. In fact, we have found several examples in the last few months of this situation. Simply speaking, being able to launch it against relatives and relatives would also be another of these more important examples. The second question that I would like to recall, perhaps of an economic nature, is precisely - and it has already been mentioned by the minister - that we are exposing ourselves to an economic amount that is frankly high and should be inexhaustible. But, of course, with regard to all those who presume that they alone know how to manage public money, it seems that during those last two years it was not their priority or, at least, it is questionable that they were not the best managers of that public money, however much they seek to flag it so many times. Perhaps by paraphrasing his current motto, this is how the People's Party likes to activate Spain. Let's hope it doesn't. But this also goes for safety, and it has already been commented on by many groups. Here we have to talk about something that too often comes up, but very few in something so important, and it is the concept of terrorism. In many cases, our group and other positions understand that there are definitions of terrorism without being one. And please do not be alarmed, that it is important to remember that judicial action, like that of the rest of those involved in the public service, can and must be subject to free criticism in a democratic state. Therefore, following this right that is attributed to us and within a penal system that is so guaranteeing and has so many resources, we are also allowed to make these kind of allusions and therefore question as many sentences as we understand that we should do so. In this sense, we could understand that a bar fight should not be considered terrorism or, in the same way, we could understand that attending a demonstration and exercising all the rights of freedom of expression and assembly should not be. But, I insist, considering that many of these types of terrorism are infamous, we do all this within our right of freedom of expression. Similarly, we would also find ourselves on the opposite side, because, in many cases, we could consider it and not be recognized. I give you quite simple examples that I think you can understand. Sexist terrorism or employer terrorism, which in many cases we seem to say with a small mouth. The reality is that, for our part, we will continue to defend it, and we will continue to do so from the institutions, but we will also do so from the streets, each and every day. Of course, we are talking about the limitation of fundamental rights, we are talking about issues which are frankly sensitive and which, therefore, must be regulated with the maximum guarantees and controls. That's our spirit at all times. Because we could see ourselves in the miserable situation that, like President Trump, we are the anti-fascists who are being persecuted and condemned for terrorism. Given that some of your fanatics might even be in this plenary, I understand that we must be even more scrupulous in fixing all the guarantees regarding this type of fundamental rights limitation. In the same vein and with this desire to guarantee, from the United We can, and together with the Socialist Group, we have tabled a number of amendments which we believe will greatly enrich this text, which during the presentation we will be able to continue nurturing in order to achieve greater control and which, in fact, we can avoid any arbitrariness that may be given in some cases. We hope that when this whole system starts to work, the Protection Agency will make every effort to ensure that it is able to audit it and set it in the report it will have to submit to the European Commission every year. And, of course, there we will all be to ensure that this compliance is done in the best possible way. We are also concerned, perhaps even more than the amending group itself - regrettably we anticipate that we will not support this proposal - that at the time when this organic law affecting such basic and fundamental rights comes into force - I conclude, Mr President - both this Government and any other in the future will ensure not only the proper functioning of the National Passenger Information Office, but also the scrupulous compliance with all data protection standards in our country. We must not forget that we are playing very much with all this, but, of course, also that the absolute control that we must make of an issue as important as this must be a constant follow-up, and, of course, I assure you that on the part of the United Nations we can do this. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u48	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Alcaraz Martos has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u49	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I want to begin my first speech in this plenary by sending my deepest condolences to the tens of thousands of people who have lost a loved one or a friend to the COVID-19. Also my encouragement and solidarity with those people who are struggling to overcome this disease. Today they bring to debate the draft organic law on the use of passenger name registration data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crimes. By consistency, from VOX we're going to support her. The penalty is that this law comes too late, it comes too late for the arrest of an ETA terrorist who used Europe's air assets to escape from Spanish justice. You know who you are, and you, Minister, too, are sure: De Juana Chaos, who is a friend of the Vice-President of the Government, who is protected in a country where he spent his alleged sandwich hunger strike, a country where tyrant Maduro has imposed hunger on all his people. Ladies and gentlemen, it is paradoxical that this text comes to this House from a government and from parties whose trajectory, especially with regard to the identification of potential terrorists, highlights the hypocrisy with which you work, and I explain myself. On 21 January, in the European Chamber, the Socialist Party, together with the protera of Bildu, voted against investigating and knowing the names of the terrorists who murdered 379 people, whose crimes are unresolved today. You bring a law to identify the names of terrorists who can travel across Europe, but in Spain you have denied with your vote the identification of the killers of 379 Spaniards who cry out and expect justice. These murderers can and will continue to walk freely across Europe thanks to the welcome of this Government. [[Applauds]] For years I manifested myself in a civic rebellion with thousands of Spaniards, even sometimes at the gates of this Congress. We told the Socialist Government not to betray the victims of terrorism and not to trade in the shed blood of our families, not to grant impunity to either ETA or its crimes. Meanwhile, while the victims were asking for that on the street, you, the lords of the PSOE, were meeting with one of the greatest murderers in ETA's history, with Josu Ternera. [[Show a picture]] They shared table and tablecloth with him and boasted of the jokes that were spent on those meals. This terrorist, who was wanted for justice while you were eating with him, had a lot of crimes pending to answer in Spain, including those of the Zaragoza Civil Guard headquarters, where eleven people were killed, and, among them, six children. [[Show a picture]] The man who ordered this murder was sitting there sharing table and tablecloth. Gentlemen of the Government, you have shown that locating terrorists matters very little to you. In fact, their trajectory supports them. While signing the Pact for Freedom and Counter-Terrorism with the People's Party, they were negotiating with Bildu's leader, terrorist Otegi. If not, take out the negotiating record. Why don't you take it out? What are you afraid of? What fear do they have of taking out the negotiating record with the terrorist band ETA? The VOX Group asked for it from the very beginning, it was one of the first initiatives we brought to this House. And from those dusts come these muds in which all of you find yourselves, unscrupulously agreeing with the protera of Bildu, whose coordinator, the terrorist Otegi, the one called a man of peace, would not have a group, the terrorist Otegui, the one called a man of peace, would not have a group sitting here if you had actually applied the law. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must locate, identify and bring to justice terrorists, whether they are travelling through Europe or Spain, travelling by train or plane or in one of the official cars to go to some of the institutions where you have allowed them to sit. Minister, I end by telling you that I remember at this moment the last words you addressed to me - perhaps you don't remember - through an email when you left the National Court. How sad to find you sitting here today alongside a party representing a government that has as its partner friends who murdered my family. You have fought for so many years at the National High Court - I have been in so many trials with you - but that you are here today at the same time approaching the terrorist who held my colleague José Antonio Ortega Lara in prison and who has to defend this seems immoral to me. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u50	Next, Mr Rojas García has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President, for coming. Very good afternoon now, ladies and gentlemen. We are not going to support the refund amendment that is being tabled. We will support this bill because it will be an instrument to fight from the rule of law against terrorism and crime. And in that struggle we must all be together, ladies and gentlemen, as the People's Party has always done when it has been in government, firmly, with dedication always, with remembrance of the victims and always so that terrorist situations can be prevented, prosecuted and condemned. Ladies and gentlemen, we have always done this and the consistent thing is that we do it again from the opposition. That's political coherence, that's state policy, that's up to the circumstances and being united on the big issues. And so the People's Party has always acted. Furthermore, as the Minister has acknowledged, this is the same project that the People's Party Government has left behind. The incredible thing, the incongruous thing, Minister, is to hear you say here that the People's Party took a long time, when you have been the ones who have taken two years to bring to this House a project that was already drafted and completed. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to have sincere words of remembrance for all the victims of terrorism and that in the presentation, when we work on this law, we remember them. We will have them in our thinking to make the best law possible among all, the most effective. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, this law originates from the various European Union regulations, in particular Directive 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2006 on the use of passenger name registration data, PNR, for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime. As the Minister pointed out in his statement, the purpose of this draft law is, firstly, to regulate the transfer of PNR data by airlines and other obliged entities; secondly, the collection, processing and protection of such data and its transmission to the competent authorities and the exchange of data between Member States, Europol and third States; thirdly, the designation of the Spanish passenger information unit and, finally, the sanctioning regime. I would like to take this opportunity to thank former Minister Juan Ignacio Zoido and his entire team for their hard work, because they worked very well on this organic bill and, in addition, they always sought consensus with all political forces in the Counter-Terrorism Pact, a pact in which precisely this bill was discussed. This bill gives special prominence to the Civil Guard and the National Police, which are fantastic professionals and are among the best in the world. Our State Security Forces and Bodies are recognized by all those who have worked with them. The French Government has decorated them, Interpol, the European Union and all those who have worked with the Spanish Security Forces and Corpses have praised their professionalism. Everyone less seems like the Government of Spain, the ministers of your Government, Mr Marlaska. The vice president calls them old. There's another minister who accuses them of beating up. How is this possible? And two more hard-boiled eggs, to see who cringes the most within his own government to state institutions, to see who attacks the most within his own government to justice. That climate is unbearable and you are doing nothing to change it, just the opposite. Your Honor, as I was saying, two more hard eggs. Former President Felipe González has just said that government ministries are like the Marx brothers' cabin. I ask for respect for the institutions of the State, I ask for respect for the State Security Forces and Bodies. Only the Minister of Defence, honoring the name of her own ministry, has stepped forward and defended the Civil Guard. With this organic law our Police and our Civil Guard will work side by side with their European colleagues and some will ask them why the government acts with them in such a mean way. Europe praises our police officers, and you stain your honor, Minister. Aren't you ashamed of yourself, Mr. Marlaska? As I said, this bill speaks of competent authorities who can request or receive PNR data, it is precisely the Directorates-General of the Police and the Civil Guard, among others, and the judges and courts, as a guarantee - it obviously points out the statement of reasons - of the principle of constitutional independence. Well, it is obvious that, in passing, it is not wrong to cool down for reasons that are happening in our country and that you know and the Minister of Justice will have to explain when he says that we are in a constituent crisis. That's very serious, ladies and gentlemen. And before that, we are faced with a previous question of legitimacy when we have to transpose this directive and make this law. The previous question, Your Honor, is: Are you ethically and morally qualified to come to this Congress to present this law? The answer is no, Mr. Marlaska, and I'm sorry to tell you. Ladies and gentlemen, in these minutes, I invite you to address some of the points of this bill with me. This draft provides that only the judicial authority or the Secretariat of State for Security may approve access to all data of a person. The Secretariat of State for Security, which is under the orders of the Minister of the Interior, may approve access to a person's data. This is very serious, as has been said and as we all know. Tell me, Mr Marlaska, what guarantees do we have that a government that orders the prosecution of those who criticize you will respect this law? There is no guarantee from a Government that it is willing to investigate or cease persons who are against its postulates and that it orders the Civil Guard to pursue such critical information with the Government. Let us not forget the order brought to light by General Santiago. Do you realize that, Mr. Marlaska? You are a complication in the future of this bill. He is, and he has to figure it out. That's why you have to leave and you have to resign. [[Applauds]] To that extent, Mr Marlaska, the rapporteur who defended the amendment as a whole, in which we are not going to enter because we do not agree with it, has mentioned it to you as an obstacle. Another example, ladies and gentlemen. This law covers the possibility of access to PNR data for judicial investigations in serious crime. Who assures us that the government is not going to hold hands again to stop a judicial investigation that is ongoing and interfere with it, as you have done? You're stained, that's why you have to go, Mr. Marlaska. Leon Tolstói said respect was invented to replace love. You, Mr. Marlaska, are no longer loved and respected in your work, so you have to leave the blue seat. And our criticisms are positive. We respect your professional task, but, Mr Marlaska, the last decisions you have made only have one way, and it is the way of resignation. During this time you have given no guarantees of any kind, you have given no guarantees regarding this bill that it will not be removed, when the law has to be implemented again, by undermining your partisan interest, to others who investigate under this organic law; we have no guarantees. You - and I finish, Mr. President - have blatantly lied in Congress. You have tainted Article 126 of the Constitution. You have come here to burden yourself with the separation of powers, the one for which you swore obedience one day and defended one day; now you are failing to do so. You're no longer a minister of anything, you've lost the authorities. You're not in a position to defend this organic law; I'm sorry to tell you, but it's reality. The decisions made have a path, and it is the path of responsibility that you have to abide by. Have sufficient dignity to do so and will dignify Congress, the Government and Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u52	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Socialist Group then gives the floor to Mrs Botella Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u53	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a word of gratitude and gratitude to the men and women who make up the State Security Forces, the Police and the Civil Guard, the Autonomous Polices, the National Intelligence Centre, as well as the group of public servants, of the competent authorities within the framework of this bill, who, with professionalism and surrender, fight terrorism every day and the most serious crimes that violate the fundamental rights of citizens. Before I turn to the subject of the PNR system, I would like to take a look at the presentations made by the various Members, because it is curious that everyone has come here to talk almost about their subject. One thing is the PNR and the bill that we have to move forward in a limited time, and another that we come here to talk about each of our own. With regard to the PNR, the last suffamation of the deputy of the People's Party or the previous of the amendment itself when it comes to freedom from security, a debate we could be talking to for quite a few hours. I want to say that we have to focus with all interest on something that is very urgent - and at the moment we have to decide, ladies and gentlemen, whether we reject that amendment and move on to the next work - and that is that the PNR system is a security system that derives from the directive itself on the bill that we have already registered in the Chamber for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crimes. This project, on which we have been working for a long time, as the Minister has said, is effective in terms of security, balanced and guaranteed in terms of the protection of personal data, the fruit of this long and wide debate, as the Minister has already said, which is reflected from the European Union. Anything you want from this project can be said less than hasty. Be calm, ladies and gentlemen, that you arrive here very rested, because you have had all kinds of reflections in the European Union, even if that does not save us the debates that we have the right to raise. We are transposing a directive which is the regulatory framework for mandatory transposition into our system. The directive and, therefore, the draft law are an essential element in the field of security - I insist, always in the field of security -. They are then weighted and articulated with all systems of protection of the fundamental rights of citizens, but it is security that is the input, which leads to it being realized. And there is the paradox that Spain throughout this period that we had two times - I mean the XII Legislature - already defended that this instrument that other countries were using was useful. In Anglo-Saxon countries such as the United States or the United Kingdom, their national authorities were already working with these passenger name registration data provided by airlines and companies. The fact is that the deadline for transposition of the directive expired, indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, on 25 May 2018, before the motion of censure, that is, when the government arrived, the deadline had expired. There is little criticism of who unlocked in six months what had been held for two years. In six months the new project was articulated and brought to the House. But the political and electoral calendar that has taken place in Spain has been the one that has been, and I do not have to explain it to your ladies and gentlemen. But it is also not that it helps much now, and it is not that it wants to clash with the lordship of the BNG, an amendment of the whole, in the midst of the pandemic, with all the delays that we will have to deal with. You could have put amendments to the closure with a more constructive approach, and the presentation could have already started working. And I also give you a consideration. If economic sanctions are of concern, they should be more concerned, in terms of security, that Spain is not incorporated and fully operational in the European PNR system. The Socialist Group therefore rejects the amendment to the whole of the Plural Group for lack of rigour, for it is timeless and irrelevant when it comes to providing alternatives. To that extent, the Plural Group's own spokesman has tabled amendments to the closure so that they can then be discussed in a paper, which shows that he does not have much assurance that the amendment can be adopted, and rather that he has put it out of the question. It is also surprising that the spokesman for the BNG tilde excuse - I would not like to leave these words, because words are very important - the protection of citizens from future terrorist attacks. On these future terrorist attacks, Your Honor, since 2001 they have produced a wake of death and desolation in Europe, starting with the attacks in Spain in March 2004 and following those in England, France, Belgium, Germany or Holland. It is not very delicate to say that the protection of citizens is an excuse. If we could have done something else, anything else we could have saved? That is the question that we always have to ask ourselves by the public authorities. It also calls the PNR system a threat to the foundations of any democratic society. So, I do not know what democratic quality you find the countries that have already transposed it, such as the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy and the whole European countries, except us. Nor is it understood that, in view of the complexity and significance of this topic, you are dispatched in an amendment to the whole basically with four paragraphs, two topics, several prejudices and no alternative. So, really, it's unconstructive. Your Honour, frankly, let me tell you that this amendment, and more after the speech you have had, is left with dogmatism and lacks study. This has been a very complex process. In the House's own dossiers, you will see that since 2007 - the minister referred to five years of the directive - there have been recommendations from the Council that we should work on the use of PNR data for police purposes. I mean, there's a long way to go. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality we are facing is that of the victims of terrorism, the tragedy of so many innocent people whom the terrorists have taken away their lives, their lives and those of their relatives and loved ones, because these are going to be lost lives, because they will not have any redress, and we have not been able to fight with all the elements within our reach. The reality we face is the persecution of the most horrific crimes against the dignity of people, which appear on lists of up to twenty-six categories of serious crimes. The reality that we are facing is that the terrorist threat requires continuous adaptation, early detection, early warning and preventive measures, as noted in the annual national security report. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality we are facing is the phenomenon of foreign terrorist fighters. And I cannot fail to mention that it is a very worrying phenomenon for Europe, very worrying for all the security and intelligence services, because, according to the latest data we handle, of the 5,000 known individuals who went to fight jihad to Syria and Iraq, there are 2,000 of those who do not know their whereabouts; in addition to those who have died or returned, there are 2,000 who do not know where they are. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by asking you to vote by rejecting this amendment, so that we can move on to work urgently, in an already constructive way and by improving - the minister also said - the project, so that it can be as complete and with the best technical quality.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u54	Your Honor, you must finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u55	I end with a few words of encouragement. The British MEP rapporteur in the Committee on Civil Liberties, when the directive was adopted, after five years of defending the draft, said: We must give a message to our citizens that we really care about them, we are doing the right thing. The Government has done its job. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now our responsibility to join forces to fight terrorism and the most serious crimes. Let's get to work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u56	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u57	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the Organization for the Delimitation of Military Justice. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Nuet Pujals has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u58	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The Republican Parliamentary Group proposes to limit military justice to situations of war, international armed conflict or state of siege. In a democratic state, ladies and gentlemen, neither democracy nor justice can stand at the door of the barracks. In a democratic state none of its institutions can avoid democratic control. Crimes such as corruption or those of a sexual nature must not only be reproved in a sharp way, but justice must proceed in an exemplary manner to stem those practices. The existence of a military jurisdiction in Spain is an accepted exception not required constitutionally, so it is a political option to maintain or restrict it. Military justice is an anachronism in Spain and an anomaly in Europe. Germany eliminated it in 1949, France in 1982, the Netherlands, Belgium, Norway or Denmark have done the same; we are seventy years behind Germany and fifty years behind France. The existence of military justice in times of peace is contrary to international recommendations on the subject, it violates several of the twenty principles of the United Nations Decaux report: 13, the right to an independent and impartial competent court; 14, the publicity of the trial; 15, the guarantee of the right of defence and the right to a fair and impartial trial; 16, access to effective judicial protection, or 17, the filing of appeals before ordinary courts. Ladies and gentlemen, a sexual or corruption offence is a crime, committed by a civilian or committed by a military. There are too many examples of corrupt and military accusers who for serious crimes are sentenced only to less than three years'imprisonment, which, in accordance with the prerogatives of the Military Penal Code, allows them to remain in the army, in some cases alongside their victims. Of the 174 allegations of sexual and labour harassment or assault until 31 December 2015, only one in ten ended up in prison and none ended up being expelled from the army. From 2016 to 2018, of the 90 complaints of a sexual nature none ended in conviction. Ask yourself, ladies and gentlemen, why thousands and thousands of women have left the Army in recent years; why, except in some exceptions, very few of them have a successful military career and have access to high command responsibilities. No colonel, no general, has been expelled in the last nineteen years for corruption in the Armed Forces, despite such cases as the ACAR Getafe, false invoices in the Air Force, corruption in the Gómez Ulla Hospital or corruption in the contracts awarded by the Ministry of Defence. In the Spanish Armed Forces, dirty rags are washed at home and a real omertà is practiced under the protection of military courts. In the Spanish Armed Forces it is the victims - the complainants and the victims - who are scrutinized and accused, many of whom are expelled from the army or end up abandoning it. What is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, what is the reality? Beyond maintaining the formality of procedural guarantees, the reality is that the friendships forged in promotions are working; the trust and protection of the highest-ranking officers is cultivated; the distrust of the complainant is practised; the value of the witnesses and their statements according to their hierarchical position in the army is questioned; the fear of the complainants not obtaining support from their superiors for promotion or transfer; the statements are made before a military superior officer rather than before a judge or prosecutor. In Spain, in the Armed Forces, to circulate manifests of apologia of Francoism, in practice neither is punished nor pursued, but to denounce sexual harassers, denounce corruption or sign anti-Franchist manifests does entail sanction and expulsion of the army. Today we put through this initiative also voice to the victims. Thanks to the democratic and anti-Franchist military associations, they are the germ of this initiative. A fraternal embrace from the rostrum to the ex-Lieutenant Gonzalo Segura and his just cause. corporatism will retreat today or very soon and justice will finally triumph. We are on an unstoppable path of democratisation of the armed forces, they will not be able to stop it from the right or those who still doubt. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u59	He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and therefore has the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. First and foremost, before I get to the bottom of the matter, I would like to express my personal respect for Mr Nuet who is putting forward this proposal. I learned from a very young age to respect the representatives of the Spanish people and I did so precisely within the training centre where the commanding cadres of the Earth Army are formed, part of the institution of the Armed Forces that is being analyzed today. After forty-four years of service in them, with only a short year of experience in this house, I can assure you, Mr Nuet, that I have never been so insulted, individually and collectively, nor have I been so disrespectful, nor have I been voicing so much or so free as this year, simply by occupying a seat in a specific part of the Chamber or by considering myself attached to a concrete way of understanding reality, to which I am undoubtedly entitled, a right I intend to continue to exercise. [[applause]] Don't worry, I won't do the same. I disagree a lot with you, but I repeat that I respect you personally. At the General Military Academy, the training centre of the Earth Army where you receive your basic training, part of the commanding cadres of that institution, which you consider to have become a shelter for sexual offenders or at the home of criminals, is taught both to the officers of the arms, among whom I count, and to those of the common bodies, among which are those of the military legal body, which give body to the military jurisdiction, to respect the representatives of the nation, to put the welfare of the Spaniards before any other consideration and to respect meticulously the legal order of the nation, beginning with the Constitution itself. It is this Constitution which, in its article 117.5, which you say does not compromise you, establishes that the principle of judicial unity is the basis of the organization and functioning of the courts. The law shall regulate the exercise of military jurisdiction in the strictly Castrian sphere and in the case of state of siege, in accordance with the principles of the Constitution. You therefore come to propose a reform of the Constitution through your proposal for an organic law. At the beginning of its explanatory statement, this proposal for an organic law refers to a United Nations report, the Decaux report, in honour of the name of its author Emmanuel Decaux, which was formulated in 2006 under the title of the Administration of Justice by the military courts. This report envisaged the existence of military courts and gave principles for the exercise of justice by them. You decide to select five of them who in your opinion are unfulfilled, you say - without providing any evidence, but you say it - that military courts are not competent, independent or impartial, that trials are not public, that there is no guarantee of the right to a fair and impartial trial, nor access to effective judicial protection, and finally, as you say and only you - well, not only you and now I will explain to you why - there can be no appeal before ordinary courts. That is not true, Your Honor, all of this is radically false, all of it, from the beginning to the end. Of course, when you face all these claims, totally unfounded, you are curious to know where you got them and you find them in an Internet article of June 25, 2019. Your explanatory statement is unfortunately plagiarized 100 percent of that article, an article published on the Internet by Mr Luis Gonzalo Segura de Oro-Pulido, to which you have referred. He was expelled from the Armed Forces, but he was expelled by the Supreme Court, Your Honor, he was not expelled by a group of insane generals, he was expelled by the Supreme Court as a result of repeated accumulation of disciplinary misconduct. He was expelled in a judicial procedure that culminated, like everyone else in Spain, in the Supreme Court because the military jurisdiction, Your Honor, is integrated, as provided for in principle No. 1 of the Decaux Report, into the general judicial system. In the same report - and this concludes with the report - point 8 states that the competence of military judicial bodies should be limited to offences committed within the strictly castrian sphere by military personnel, as precisely as our Constitution establishes. You then - or rather the true author of the statement of reasons for your proposed organic law - question the professional honesty of the military courts, which you accuse of convicting a few military personnel for the crimes of harassment, sexual abuse and assault of women in the Armed Forces, by prejudging and condemning them free of charge again without any proof, attributing to them a questionable presumption of guilt. In another section of that article of the Internet, which has become a statement of reasons, military justice is disqualified free of charge and without any grounds, accusing it of prevaricating behaviour in cases of corruption or the death of military personnel. It is regrettable to hear this in this House about an institution of the most valued by the Spanish people through the multiple surveys carried out, God knows with what interests, about what they think and repeatedly reflect the Spanish citizens, who are intended to cast doubt on the honesty of the Armed Forces on the basis of spurious, insulting and unfounded statements. The constituent power recognized in article 117.5 of the Constitution the existence of military jurisdiction within the jurisdictional unit as one as a special and unique jurisdiction to provide effective judicial guardianship in the strictly Castrian sphere. This model is not private of Spain, military jurisdiction exists in many democratic countries of the world such as Australia, Canada, Brazil, the United States Italy, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom or Switzerland and in almost all Hispanic Americans. In the Internet article you use, the author of the article, former Lieutenant Luis Gonzalo Segura de Oro-Pulido, headlines it: 'Military justice, a cancer in Spain'. [[and also in Latin America]] You will agree with me that a person who has been expelled from the army by military justice is a source of information, at least, subject to suspicion of annihilation. Military jurisdiction is not a privileged forum for the military but a tool at the disposal of the rule of law to give due consideration to the principles of unity, hierarchy and discipline applicable to public servants who have decided to limit, by their own choice in embracing the arms race, the exercise of any of their rights and freedoms for the benefit of society. Despite what is insinuated frivolously and without any foundation in the proposed organic law that is subject to debate, the military jurisdiction is in Spain fully integrated into the judiciary of the State and has been applying with unquestionable institutional loyalty the doctrine emanating from the Supreme Court and the principles that underpin our democratic system. Thus, military judges and courts have so far promoted a high level of judicial guardianship in their proceedings, the high quality of which is recognized by the legal level of their rulings and by the speed of the decision-making response, resulting in residual cases of undue delay. Moreover, following some reforms introduced in the laws that regulate it, military jurisdiction has been able to adapt smoothly since 1978 to the new social demands, vigouring the guarantees of the justiciable. Among these reforms is the revision by the Fifth Chamber of the Supreme Court in cassation of all kinds of sentences handed down by lower organs, whatever the subject matter and the sanction provided for the offence in question and the strengthening of the independence of military judges, granting the General Council of the Judiciary its direct appointment since 2015, without any intervention by the administrative authorities of the Ministry of Defence. The Fifth Chamber of the Supreme Court consists of eight judges, four from ordinary jurisdiction and four from military jurisdiction. With regard to the President of the Chamber, as well as the judges of ordinary jurisdiction, his appointment shall be subject to the same rules as are in place for the appointment of the Presidents and Judges of the rest of the Chambers of the Supreme Court. Judges coming from the Military Legal Corps shall be appointed by a royal decree endorsed by the Ministry of Justice and on the proposal of the General Council of the Judiciary among toned general advisers and general auditors who are qualified for promotion in active service. As prescribed in the preamble to Organic Law 4/1987, of the Competence and Organization of Military Jurisdiction, with last modification in October 2015, military jurisdiction originates in the same genesis of the permanent armies and has always been a specialized jurisdiction, a character that derives from the nature of the law it applies and from the institutional sphere in which it is exercised. The maximum guarantee of a fair administration of justice is focused on the independence of the judicial organs and, within the Castrian jurisdiction, the last revision of the organic law is directed in this direction, enshrining the immobility, responsibility and exclusive submission to the rule of law of those who perform this function, making a real effort to achieve the positive definition of that independence for the military judicial organs. The Armed Forces have many needs, including the increase in their budget, the updating of their salaries, possibilities for conciliation, professional departures from existing commitment subscription regimes, especially long-term ones, geographical mobility and some others, but not the lack of a specialized military jurisdiction. This problem does not exist in the Armed Forces, but rather on the contrary, it is assumed as necessary, both in Spain and in all the countries in our environment that host models of national defence similar to ours. You propose that you reserve exclusively for wartime, you call. The organic law envisages it as armed conflict or in situations of international conflict. Your Honor, what does not exist in time of peace cannot be improvised in time of war. There is a need for military jurisdiction in time of peace, just as there is a need for an army in time of peace that is prepared to act in time of war or armed conflict. [[Applauds]] Specialized jurisdiction is intrinsically linked to the disciplinary regime of the Armed Forces, without which, with the guarantees already provided and with which they can be added in the future, the effectiveness of the Armed Forces would be seriously compromised and, thereby, national defence would be seriously compromised. Let us focus, ladies and gentlemen, on the real problems that exist, let us not create problems that are not conceived as such. You mentioned professional associations. I received yesterday an e-mail from a professional association whose name I will not mention, but which you too will have received, which questions this proposal that you make, because the reforms that the Armed Forces need do not go through the elimination of military jurisdiction. It is a need for peace time to prepare for times of armed conflict. In conclusion, I would like to take the remaining eight seconds to make a mention of my status as national deputy for Melilla and to demand for Melilla and for Ceuta the attention of the authorities of our Government so that in the task that has been put forward by the Government no one will be left behind the cities of Ceuta and Melilla, which have so forgotten them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u61	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] A replica shift is granted. That is why Mr Nuet Pujols has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u62	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, my formation is based on the republican tradition, which is very different from yours, and the republican tradition tells us that courtesy does not stand in the way of courage and, therefore, parliamentary courtesy, we take it for granted, but we must tell the truths even if they do, Your Honor. And today we have come here to tell the truth, to represent victims with names and surnames, some of them in this Congress of Deputies. That's as real as life itself. Don't turn your back on him. [[Applauds]] The People's Party, when it talks about these issues, should do it with a small mouth and I will tell you why. Because his incompetence was the cause of the worst accident the Armed Forces have suffered in our history, that of the Jak-42, Your Honor. Therefore, if you want to talk about corruption and if you want to talk about negligence, first apologize to the public servants who lost their lives and then I will continue to listen to you, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] Apologize first, apologize to the victims of the Jak-42. Because in some of the cases I'm mentioning, Your Honor, what do you propose to me, that we manage it as you managed the Jak-42 accident, where the defense of one of your leaders was paid by the People's Party? Is that the level of cover you propose to this House, Your Honor? I hope not. So that's what we're talking about. I don't know why the People's Party when we talk about corruption gets so nervous; I don't know why, Your Honor; it's just as clear to me. I don't know why the People's Party when we talk about sexual harassment of women gets so nervous, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] Why? Or don't those victims deserve your support and recognition? So that's what we're on, Your Honor. Be brave and patriotic, at least for a day. Give him your face today, stand by the victims' side. They are always in time to put the other 364 days of the year, as they always do, on the side of the executioners. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u63	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning lady proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u64	Thank you very much, President. I don't know who's getting nervous, Mr. Nuet, but you've given the impression that it was you. We have been talking about the military institution, the military jurisdiction, the Armed Forces, and you have changed the argument to the People's Party. The Armed Forces are an organ of the whole nation, no party patrimonyizes them. You link military jurisdiction to the People's Party; the People's Party has no intention of patrimonizing the Armed Forces. [[Applauds]] Military jurisdiction throughout your history has acted in accordance with law and law, including the cases you mentioned; cases of sexual harassment, sexual abuse, corruption, in the incompetence of recruitment management. On all occasions, the military jurisdiction, which is what we are talking about, which prevails in the Supreme Court, the seat of our highest judicial organization in the Spanish State, has acted correctly and is recognized in that way. Whether you value me as individual or isolated political positions in specific cases of history does not lead to anything in the analysis of the relevance or non-relevance of the maintenance of military jurisdiction. No cover-up, Your Honor. I have spent forty-four years in the Armed Forces; those Armed Forces that you describe and that you do not know - obviously you do not have to know them - do not exist, do not exist. Staff working in the Armed Forces work with pundor, decency and decorum. He is not engaged in sabre movements, conspiracies, flag rooms or all those things that you encourage; he works daily for the preparation of the Armed Forces for the performance of his duties. The Armed Forces and their military jurisdiction are subject to the principles set out in our Royal Ordinances; the Armed Forces operate on ethical and moral principles. Article 18 of the Royal Ordinances for the Armed Forces provides that the military shall, with its actions, 'promote justice to prevail in the Armed Forces in such a way that no one has anything to expect from favor or fear from arbitrariness'. That governs all the professionals of the Armed Forces, Your Honor, and that is what is constantly worshipped in the Armed Forces. [[applause]] All the distortions to which you submit, the suspicions and the alleged conspiracies in the field of the Armed Forces exist only in your imagination and in your spurious intention of obtaining what aims of weakening or placing the Armed Forces in a situation of suspicion. That doesn't exist. Finally, Your Honor, I would like to express the following to you. The Organic Law 5/2005, on National Defence, states that 'the Armed Forces are the essential element of defence and constitute a single entity that is conceived as an integral set of the specific forms of action of each of its components'. And, as I said before, for the maintenance of the effectiveness of the functioning of this institution, which is essential for national defence, specialized jurisdiction is vital for the maintenance of the specific disciplinary regime of the functioning of the Armed Forces, in this country and in any country with which we want to compare ourselves. If there is no military jurisdiction in time of peace, it cannot exist in time of war. For the appointment of the staff of the Fifth Chamber of the Supreme Court, the Military Chamber, the General Council of the Judiciary adheres to criteria strictly derived from the instructions of the General Council of the Judiciary. The military legal prosecutor, a prosecutor before that chamber, is organically dependent on the Attorney-General's Office. The military legal system is strictly integrated into the Spanish judicial system; there is no independent, hidden, corporate or any other kind of action, Your Honor. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u65	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems here that we can question and criticize anything but the Armed Forces, and less if they are Spanish. You must obey and shut up. Well, no, my group's not gonna do it. The motion for a law brought by the Republican Group on the merits today seeks two questions: on the one hand, to denounce the serious and flagrant crimes committed in the military courts and, on the other hand, to eliminate military justice as such. The proposer has given us a thorough analysis of different cases that have been dealt with in military courts and that we know and understand that they are so. They could be, both of them, the logical concatenation of one another, but, in fact, they are not. Our position differs in some issues from what Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya raises. I'll try to explain myself. The criterion underlying the Republican Group's proposed law is that since military justice does not work, military justice must be eliminated, except in cases of siege, war or war, as they have pointed out. The proposing group does not differentiate or disagree on the ability to act in the types of offences to be tried, but on the circumstances, i.e. giving it courage and validity in some situations. On the other hand, our criteria are different. Military justice, if it must exist, must be only for what is military, that is, it is the crimes that determine whether a cause is military or not, not the situation in which we find ourselves. Crimes against sexual freedom, assault, rape and harassment, or corruption, or those that violate human rights, have nothing to do with strictly military matters. Moreover, the fact of being military and living in a hierarchical system, based on vertical obedience, exacerbates these situations, creating a serious inequality of conditions at the time of the complaint or accusation and unfortunately also in the sentences. They are therefore not offences to be dealt with by any military court, regardless of whether they occur between military personnel or in military stays, because, unlike the proposition of law, a crime of sexual assault, for example, is a crime that must always be tried in a non-military setting, even in the event of armed conflict or war. For us it is such a serious situation that it should never be in the hands of a military court, it must be the type of crime that must delimit military legal action and not the situation. The UN Commission on Human Rights in a document entitled "A set of updated principles for the protection and promotion of human rights", at paragraph 29, reads: "The jurisdiction of military courts should be limited to specifically military offences committed by military personnel, excluding human rights violations, which are the jurisdiction of ordinary national courts or, where appropriate, in the case of serious crimes under international law, of an international criminal court". It refers, for example, to issues of torture or against human rights. It is a subject, therefore, as I said before, of principles or criteria, regardless of whether military justice, which is also an important point to deal with, is giving or not a fair answer to these demands, which we also see is not doing so. We find, as many jurists and also many military personnel of a different nature indicate, that military justice consisting of military personnel subject to discipline, and whose professional advancement depends on their leaders, is independent of their commanders. What's more, we dare to say it's almost impossible. Experience shows us that most of the sentences are handed down according to the command, protecting a supposed discipline that always works only from the top down and often protects the superiors from the righteous claims of the lower ranks. Is justice compatible with discipline and hierarchy possible? We have doubts. We believe that it is more important to make a major transformation of military justice, than its annulment itself, for the sake of a jurisdiction that contemplates and differentiates what is strictly military from what is not. The most advanced countries in this area - some of them have been mentioned here - such as France, Germany, the Netherlands, Austria, Norway or Denmark have transformed military jurisdiction, incorporating it into ordinary jurisdiction and assigning its competence to specialized chambers. That must be the way forward, because removing it from a pen carries the risk of having a double void: the repeal and the absence of specification in the one incorporated, for example, in the ordinary Penal Code. I therefore believe that Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu has maintained that there can be no military justice if it is not to maintain the principles justifying the need for justice. But I would say to you that these armies also maintain those principles that you have cited, and instead, it has resulted from ordinary justice many issues that arise here in military justice. I want to set as an example - and with this I end - German military justice. In Germany, members of the Armed Forces are accountable to the Criminal Civil Code for common criminal acts committed and tried through ordinary civil proceedings, or there are no military prisons, for example, as military criminals enter ordinary civilian prisons. In short, the federal administrative court and three military disciplinary courts - there are a total of twenty-nine chambers - are the ones that judge these issues. I have cited the German case as an example. I see I'm running out of time. For this reason, and even if we do not agree with the direction taken by the proposed part of the bill, that is, by differing in some matters, we will vote in favour of its consideration. We believe, at the outset, that it should be the Government that would bring into this House a truly transformative bill for military justice, which would serve to bring it into line with the levels that other European countries mentioned above have carried out. We cannot remain with a nineteenth-century military jurisdiction that only it does to sow doubts and question the value of it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u67	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u68	Thank you very much, President, for coming. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I want my first words in this speech to pay tribute to the tens of thousands of Spaniards who died during this coronary virus epidemic. Go from here my personal memory and that of my party, Citizens, and a sincere embrace to all your family and friends. I would also like to remind our heroes, the health workers, as well as all the professional groups that were considered essential and that remain essential, that have maintained the vital constants of our country during this harsh hibernation that has meant this painful confinement for all. Among them, I would particularly like to highlight - for this reason - the role of our State Security Forces and Armed Forces, on which this initiative is concerned. We are debating, ladies and gentlemen, a proposal for a law of the Republican Parliamentary Group which has as its fundamental objective the substantial limitation of the competence and scope of military jurisdiction. And I must say that we are not surprised; we are not surprised coming from who comes from, from a party that governs Catalonia with the consent of the CUP; that it has invited to cough the military in this crisis; that it shares cabinet with Torra, that in turn it has opposed the UME to raise field hospitals to protect the health of all Catalans - I repeat, of all Catalans - only because the military wears our Spanish flag in their uniform. All in order, ladies and gentlemen. Military justice, as you are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, is regulated at first instance - and has already been mentioned - in Article 117(5) of the Spanish Constitution, which states that it will be a law that will regulate the exercise of military jurisdiction, that in any case it will be subject to the principles of the Constitution and subject to the principle of unity of jurisdiction, which form the basis of the organization and functioning of our courts, ladies and gentlemen. The Constitution therefore refers to a subsequent organic law, which in our case is the Organic Law 4/1987 of 15 July on the competence and organization of military jurisdiction. In accordance with article 1 of this law, the military jurisdiction of the judiciary of the State administers justice on behalf of the king in accordance with the principles of the Constitution and the laws. Does this sound to you, ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra? According to the principles of the Constitution and the laws it means an impeccable legal scruple, which is exactly the opposite of its way of understanding politics. As we said, the principle of jurisdictional unity is that it is the core of our entire judicial system, which means that although it has its own substance and characteristics as a result of its direct relationship with the National Defence, military justice is already part of the judiciary and is linked to it, as well as to the Constitution and the rest of our laws. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a jurisdiction recognized in the Constitution, subject to the Constitution, subject to the laws and necessarily linked to the judiciary. What are you talking about, gentlemen of Esquerra? How much would Spain gain if I could say the same about Esquerra and the separatist parties in Catalonia! We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that you are continually outside of those two aspects - the Constitution and the Judiciary - and come to question that something as significant as our Armed Forces could be outside, when you are permanently outside the Constitution, the Judiciary and the courts of this country, is something that very much contradicts what you are saying. I will now remind you of the words of the President of the Supreme Court and of the General Council of the Judiciary, Mr Carlos Lesmes, who during his speech at the opening of this judicial year, in 2019, insisted on the need to address the pending reforms in this jurisdiction, the military, ensuring that they would benefit both the judiciary and the military institution itself. The military is - it has said - a jurisdiction with its own characteristics and obvious specialties that for four years has been properly articulated in the framework of the Judicial Power. The specialty of Castrian jurisdiction - said the president of the Supreme Court and the General Council of the Judiciary - is based not only on the nature of the law that is applied, but on the nature of the subjects whose interests and protective actions. They are men and women - he added - whose mission is to guarantee the sovereignty and independence of Spain, to defend its territorial integrity in the constitutional order and to protect our security and that of our international allies. They are public servants other than the rest and should therefore also be their jurisdiction. In Citizens we understand, however, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be up to the Government - with studies, reports, analysis and debate with specialists and experts, dialogue with professional associations of members of the Armed Forces - to bring to these General Courts a draft law reforming military jurisdiction that gives the military a regulatory framework of this fundamental right in obtaining effective modern judicial guardianship and aligned with the regulation that governs in the rest of the countries of our environment. Similarly, we would like to remind the Government and this House how appropriate it would be to ask the Observatory of Military Life - whose renewal is pending and should be carried out immediately - to draw up a monographic report on military jurisdiction, which analyses the comparative law, the current situation in Spain and which concludes by drawing conclusions and recommendations to this House, since the observatory depends on it. Only in this way will there be guarantees of a modern law that respects the rights of the military in an essential area such as justice. However, we cannot share the legislative initiative you bring us, Mr de Esquerra, because you only have reasons to justify a proposal for limitation which are false. You make a pejorative diagnosis of the Armed Forces and that can never serve as a starting point for building anything. And it is that you, gentlemen of Esquerra, are only interested in questioning the institutions of the social and democratic rule of law that is Spain and especially the delegitimization of the judiciary; of all that you have witnessed - you and the rest of the Spanish citizens - during your famous trial and the criminal case followed before the Supreme Court, in which the highest leader of your party has been convicted for a crime of sedition and another of misappropriation of public revenues, that is, corruption, lordship; that of what you so much talk about: corruption. Now you want to charge corruption. Well, we have no special interest in questioning their consistency, we consider them to be a group that has been discrediting itself for many years. The only thing we are interested in in this case is the strengthening of institutions, the fight against real corruption and democratic regeneration. I conclude, President. We are aware that it is positive that this debate should begin on the scope and meaning of military jurisdiction. We are ready to address these reforms, but we urge the Government to bring in that consensual bill. Our parliamentary group is not going to contribute to discrediting all public servants, as you, Mr de Esquerra, do, which is your only interest. I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Rufian, I think you...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u69	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u70	I'm done, President. ...I don't think you've ever entered a barracks in our army, probably not even passed close to one. If you did, you'd receive him with open arms, teach him what they do and how they do it. Cheer up, you go! Because I believe, moreover, that - I insist - they will receive you with open arms. Do you know why I believe this, Mr. Rufián? Do you know why I think he's never been there before? Because if you had gone to a barracks and taught him what they were doing, you would have improved and, since I know you, Mr. Rufián, you have not improved anything. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u71	Next, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. The guarantee of truly independent justice is respected if there is an ordinary judicial organization, as well as a democratic one - something that can not always be affirmed in the Spanish State - that is, that which provides for the laws in general, where the composition, powers of its organs and procedure to be applied are regulated. [[The lady]] Continuing to subtract certain areas from the control of ordinary justice is not consistent with a theoretical democratic rule of law, only serves to keep certain issues, problems or events hidden or away from transparency and public knowledge. Despite legal attempts to remove military command from military jurisdiction, through its professionalization, it must be recognized that this is not possible if members of military jurisdiction are, in turn, members of the army. The system itself is responsible for maintaining and inculcating the values that are considered appropriate within the army, and that do not seem to be in line with the majority values of society, with truly democratic values. They continue to live through sexist conduct, including assaults and abuses, dismissals or discrimination on the basis of gender, to ensure that certain events within the military are not investigated and to promote support for Francoism and to punish and punish those military personnel who dare to question these attitudes. Recently, the Galician corporal Marco Santos Soto was expelled from the army for signing a manifesto in defense of democracy and against an earlier manifesto of exaltation of the dictator Francisco Franco and of apologia of Francoism, subscribed by high military commanders who, however, were not at all sanctioned or admonished. It seems that those within the army who defend Francoism have no problems and those who defend democracy have no room. It is clear that we will support the proposal. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u73	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nuet, from our formation we will support the consideration of your proposal for a law and we will do so because, first of all, we share the spirit of it. The Law regulating the competence and functioning of military jurisdiction, which is the daughter of these shots from the ceiling still seen here, is an organic law of 1987 - by the way, it is Organic Law 4/1987, and not 7, which by typographical error is contained in its proposal -. We came out of the 'weird', then came the Loapa, then the Organic Law of the Judiciary of 1985 is the one that conditions, and then, in 1987, there is a thing that does not actually have material comparison with any country in our environment, with any country of democratic tradition, because a jurisdiction that is formed basically by the military was integrated. Cosmetic makeup was performed at the top, integrating the generals of the military legal corps into the Fifth Chamber of the Supreme Court in order to maintain this treatment of vision and excellence, but, in fact, on the basis of military jurisdiction they cannot impartially judge those who are subject to a mandatory mandate. We therefore share the reasons and I even believe that it has been short because, for example, in his presentation he said that one in ten cases of sexual or labour abuse ended up in prison. But it's not true, it was one in eight cases, specifically it was 22 out of 176 in the year you quote. Secondly, we will give you our support because in addition to sharing the spirit, we are always loyal to our fellow travellers. We may not coincide in some aspects of strategy and even in terms of bottom-up positioning it will surely have to be introduced at the time when we process it some kind of modification, but, in any case, between those who defend individual and collective rights and freedoms and those who defend themselves in the deontology of the real ordinances to say that things are fine because it says it the real ordinance, ignoring the ontology of what really happens, as you very well denounce, we will always be next to the first ones. And thirdly, we will support this bill that you present because we believe it will also be a fantastic stress test to see where you are in this House. It will be a fantastic stress test to see what the so-called progressive forces do, that progressive majority that forms this House, if they truly bet decisively on everything that results in a necessary democratic regeneration. Today we are talking about military jurisdiction, that military jurisdiction which, as you have shown, is too soft with the affine and too severe with the dissident, which we can certainly preach also of the so-called ordinary jurisdiction. We will see whether the progressive forces bet on this and, therefore, to what extent they bet on a real regeneration of the Spanish democratic system. And that, in addition to you, us and some other group will also serve as a stress test to verify the real will of the Spanish progressive forces to solve another important conflict we have, which also affects collective and individual freedoms in Catalonia. We will see whether there is, in fact, a genuine will for democratic regeneration and for dialogue without any form of conditioning to solve the serious problems, the serious conflicts that we suffer. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u75	Thank you very much, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú PodemosGalicia in Comú.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u76	Dear President, dear colleagues, workers of the house and workers accredited to the house, first of all I introduce myself, as this is my first intervention in the gallery. I am Roberto Uriarte, deputy for Vizcaya, and I will try to defend why we are defending the vote in favour of this consideration, not the initiative itself, as I will explain later. Dear General Otazu, with all my love, I will try to convince you and I will tutor you, as I always do. I've listened to you carefully - I think it's nice that in the army, from the highest general to the last of the troops, you all use tweaking in the face of this treatise of lordship, a misinterpreted respect that digs borders or trenches between us and keeps us away many times - and I'm going to try to argue why I don't think you're right about what you're defending. In fact, I think you have defended it well, but, on the very basis of the premises of which you are a party, you must come to the opposite conclusion. That is, if the functioning of the Spanish army is so normal and efficient, and there is neither a widespread problem of indiscipline nor a widespread problem of management, why is it necessary for a special jurisdiction and why - I have not heard that at any time - if a national police officer and a civilian guard commit a crime, the civilian guard will be punished with a greater penalty? That is to say, why do some of the public servants in this country have to be subject to a special jurisdiction and are subject to more severe penalties than those applied to the rest of the public servants, who share, let us say, the defence of order with them? I have not heard a single reason why the premises of which your party - and I respect them perfectly - come to the contrary conclusion. I'm going to try to argue just the opposite. I will try to argue why we must defend, and why it is a step in the path of equality and progress in the rights of public servants, of the workers of the Armed Forces and of the Civil Guard, to be subject to the same jurisdiction, to ordinary jurisdiction, to the rest in times of normalcy and not to be subjected to more aggravated penalties. I will read a small text, an argument of authority, which some of us here, precisely those who have a legal background, will immediately recognize: 'No free man can be arrested, imprisoned or deprived of his rights or property, nor put out of the law, nor banished or harmed in any way, neither will we proceed nor order to proceed against him, but by virtue of a legal trial by his peers and by the law of the earth'. It is the Magna Carta of John I of England, as some, John without Earth, will have recognized, one of the first pillars of democratic or pre-democratic jurisdiction when it says: The royal prerogative granted by the king to people to be judged by the equals, by their peers. Should members of the Armed Forces and the Civil Guard be tried by their peers, by their peers? Should they be subject to more serious rules, penalties, for the same offences as other public servants? That's what we're going to try to evaluate and I'm going to try to explain to you why I think that shouldn't be so, why I think we have to move on the path of equality. Everyone knows that this Magna Charter is not only a democratic advance, but a civilizational one - it comes from the 13th century - but we must expect five more centuries. We must wait for the eighteenth century, for the citizens of the American colonies to rise up against the yoke of the king, for the first time in history to proclaim the 'We the People' and for the first democratic Constitution of history to be adopted. We are interested in your sixth amendment to that constitution. We lack here some expert who usually illustrate us with his cinematographic similes, since we have heard so much about the fifth and sixth amendments in American films. That sixth amendment establishes precisely a new concept of jurisdiction that is not the real prerogative - not the right - to be tried legally by your peers. When constitutionalism enters, when democracy enters, when the American revolution is made, and when they are freed from the yoke of the king, they no longer establish the prerogative of being judged by your peers, but the right to the natural judge pre-established by law. That is the great step from predemocracy to democracy. Frankly, I believe that the public servants of the Armed Forces and the Civil Guard have the right to advance this step; they have the right to cease to respect these historical loopholes, these restrictions on their rights and this exceptionality for times that are no exception. That is why, although we are starting from the same assumptions that you share in this case, I believe that we should come to the very conclusions that are contrary to what you have reached. It would be a step forward for these workers and a recognition for these women and men who are responsible for preserving security, both externally and internally, in the case of the Civil Guard, who have their rights recognized and are tried by the same courts that judge others. Think that you yourself have used the authority argument that certain lieutenant was convicted by the Supreme Court. Why not for ordinary justice? Why not with the same sanctions as the rest of the public servants? What is the reason for exceptionality outside the state of war, the state of siege and the international conflict? That is what we are proposing, and that is why we are defending it. We do not defend it because it is a claim of the United Nations. We can and do not intend to arrogate any representativeness or steal any initiative. It is an initiative of civil society itself. When the initiatives arise from organised civil society, when they arise from the representative organizations of the Civil Guard workers and the Armed Forces workers, what we do is pick them up, move them and try to channel them. Is this the right way? I am here to agree with my colleague Joseba Aguirretxea, who preceded me in speaking. I believe that this initiative - and I am sorry to tell the fellow Members of the Republican Parliamentary Group - is not very correct technically. I think he has important limitations. I believe that there are both formal and substantive issues that are not very well and, in particular, the explanatory statement is clearly better. But in any case, let's try to be positive. It is not a matter of final approval, but simply of allowing debate and improvement in the process. Another issue that I imagine will not be missed, especially in the media, is that it is very likely that we government partners will vote differently. Some will already try to make blood from there, but I believe it is an element that demonstrates an enormous democratic strength. [[Rumors]] It's not a weakness, quite the opposite. For those of us born in a country without freedom, plurality is a wonderful thing. [[Rumors]] And if it is wonderful to be able to consensus the agreements, it is even bigger to be able to agree even the margins for disagreement. In case my arguments are not convincing, I will again use another argument of authority, that of the great Lebanese poet Jalil Yibrán, when he speaks to marriages. In this case, I am referring to this marriage of convenience that we make up the two partners of government, to which we hope that tomorrow in some way will be joined other forces - or at least that there will be greater agreements with the rest of the forces - and that we will follow the mandate given to us by the citizens that this is the house of the people, the house of the word, the house of the agreement and of the meeting. I will read to you the words of Jalil Yibrán, who say, Fill your glasses with one another, but do not drink with one drink. Share your bread, but don't eat from the same piece. Dance and sing together and be joyful, but allow everyone to be alone. Live together, but neither too close, as the pillars of the temple are erected at a distance and the oak and cypress do not grow in the shadow of each other. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u77	Thank you, Mr. Uriarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let's call things by their name: this consideration is an authentic hairdo. This proposal for a law is nothing more than an indecent proposal, because the aim is not to delimit military jurisdiction, they do not deceive us, the aim is to de facto repeal military jurisdiction. The proposals made to us by the 1st making us believe that military jurisdiction violates human rights, constitutional principles, that it is arbitrary, that military courts act prevaricating and that, ultimately, they only seek the impunity of criminals is not only false because it does not conform to legality, but is politically unacceptable. [[Butterflies]] It has already been mentioned here, most of the consolidated democracies have military jurisdiction. But the reasons for the existence of a military jurisdiction are based precisely on the same principles on which the reason for an armed forces is based and conforms, the principle of unity, hierarchy and discipline, legal reasons which are set out in article 8 of our Constitution. What is the mission of the Armed Forces that we have given the Spaniards? To represent ourselves in the defence of independence, national sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order; that is nothing. But this is precisely in the light of article 117.5 of the Constitution, which guarantees the existence and necessity of military jurisdiction for the strictly castrense sphere for situations of siege, but always subject to constitutional principles. Already since the old Code of Military Justice of 1980 and all the reforms that have taken us to the current Military Penal Code of 2015 are incorporated all the guarantees and all the constitutional principles. Among other things, jurisdiction is based on reasons of effectiveness, on achieving such effective judicial protection in both the disciplinary and criminal fields, but it is also possible to achieve greater speed and immediacy in the resolutions. The principle of speciality also justifies military justice; today there is a tendency to specialization, specialization in commercial courts, juvenile courts and violence courts. It is precisely in military courts and tribunals that the technical principle of specialty prevails. Proponents 1 try to make us believe in their proposal that the principles of the Decaux report, the report of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, are being violated, and this is false, as we shall see below. [[Butterflies]] Of the twenty principles, only five refer to alleged non-compliance. Let's go see him. Principle 13: The right to a competent, independent and impartial tribunal must be guaranteed. Well, in the appointment and protection of the courts and the judges who make up it in the military sphere they are subject to the same as the rest of the judges and judges of the entire Spanish jurisdictional order to the General Council of the Judiciary. The Military Jurisdiction Act itself, articles 6, 8 and 118, establish principles of independence, irremovability of responsibility and submission to the law for all judges and magistrates in the military sphere. Article 118 of that law makes it clear to us - and this is important because it has been repeated falsely - that all civilian authorities and military commanders remain absolutely outside and prohibit any interference in military jurisdiction by guaranteeing the principle of independence. All this has already been taken up by the Constitutional Court in repeated judgements, including 115/2001, which made it clear that military jurisdiction guarantees independent bodies detached from military commanders. Principle 14 also says that it is not being complied with: advertising in court. That's not true. Articles 40, 68, 274 and 295 of the Military Procedure Act guarantee public and oral hearings and the Military Penal Code, in its additional provision, provides for the publicity of all its resolutions. Principle 15, which states that it is also not being complied with: guaranteeing the right to defence, fair and impartial trial. The Military Procedural Act itself, article 125, provides for legal assistance and the right to a shift of office. Principle 16, which they say is not being complied with: ensuring effective judicial protection. It was made clear by the Constitutional Court, Judgement 204 of 1994, and so many others: Military jurisdiction guarantees and in no case 1 Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. It derogates from the principle of fundamental law in article 24. Finally, they also say that principle 17, which says that recourse to ordinary courts must be guaranteed, is violated. All the decisions of the togaed courts of the territorial military courts and the Central Military Court are appealed to the superior and all of them end in the judicial summit of the Fifth Chamber of the Supreme Court. By the way, for those of the Republican tradition: Fifth Chamber that was constituted in the Republic with the Constitution of 1931. [[Applauds]] The Military Procedure Act, in its articles 324 and 328, guarantees precisely that all decisions of the military courts will have recourse to amparo and review. They therefore absolutely guarantee the capacity of resources. And finally, the Military Jurisdiction Act tells us that the very composition of that Fifth Chamber of the Supreme Court consists of four judges from the judicial career itself and four other judges from the military legal corps. It is therefore absolutely false that the Spanish military jurisdiction violates the principles to which I have referred. Proponents 2 try to make us believe that military jurisdiction is more favourable to the military, which in some ways tends to the impunity of criminals. [[Butterflies]] And this is fake. It is not only a right that is no more favourable, it is a more damaging, more burdensome right for the military. Articles 47 of the Military Penal Code and 1.3 break the principle that we all have that we are not military under the most favourable criminal law. It is precisely to them that the actual examination of crimes and the most serious penalty or sanction is applied if there is a collision between the Military Criminal Code and the ordinary Criminal Code. So, another false principle. I'm done, Madam President. What the Ones have tried to do, the gentlemen who are trying to deceive us, is to discredit and put an end to military jurisdiction. [[Butterflies]] But they will not, nor will they be able to discredit the more than 120,000 men and women who make up the Armed Forces, men of honour, men of sacrifice, men of loyalty, men of discipline and men and women of professional standing. They will not do so because judicial sovereignty depends on it, on which national sovereignty depends and, ultimately, on which the Spanish nation depends, on which you so much hate. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.- Mr Rufián Romero asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ortega. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Yes, Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President, for Rule 71(3) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Ortega Smith has called us up to four times. I ask you to withdraw it, unless you refer to Tejero, who, by the way, will surely vote for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina, do you withdraw from the Journal of Sessions the expression 'coupists'?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u82	I can't withdraw it because those who beat up are coups, and I'm referring to Puigdemont, I'm referring to Torra and I'm referring to everyone who's been convicted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Ortega Smith. Let's get him out of the Journal of Sessions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.- Rumors.- Mr. Spinosa of the Mounts of Simon asks for the word]] Quiet, please. We are not going to establish a debate on the decisions of the Presidency. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Nasarre Oliva has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. Quiet, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, everyone. First of all, let me express our gratitude and deep appreciation for our Armed Forces, which have played an important role, a great role, during the health crisis caused by the COVID-19 that we have suffered in our country; an Armed Forces which, through Operation Balmis, with more than 10,000 actions, have supported with disinfection tasks, creating field hospitals throughout the territory, helping in food banks, in residences, with homeless people; and finally, an Armed Forces of men and women with humanity, values and vocation of service. [[Applauds]] 2 1Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an initiative by the Republican Group to take into account the delimitation of military justice. Military jurisdiction is based on our own Constitution, specifically Article 117.5. Thus, jurisdiction itself derives from the fundamental rule of the State. Military justice is therefore currently a specialized jurisdiction in the light of the nature of the law it enforces and the institutional sphere it exercises. This specialisation is, in particular, the one that justifies its maintenance in the Castrian sphere and also in the field of peace. The aforementioned military jurisdiction is linked from its very origin to national defence. Precisely so, through military jurisdiction, is how the participation of the judiciary in the national defense, of our national defense, is directed. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with an issue of silence, an issue of great complexity. Certainly, the initiative could be shared in substance, the will to transform, to change, to evolve, at the same time as time. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough; the bottom is not enough; we must accompany it in the form or, rather, the forms in politics. As you well know, forms in politics are fundamental. We talk about the Constitution, about organic laws, about structure in the state. The modification proposed to us in his initiative is of a partial nature and does not offer any necessary alternative within the legal architecture. How? Who would assume those powers? These are non- banal issues which, in his proposal, do not respond. From our group, the Socialist Group, we believe that any legislative change of these characteristics should be studied, reflected in depth, with data, analysis and reports with legal support. But, in his initiative, the assumptions are not properly substantiated or argued, sometimes feeding on unreliable sources of unreliable legal data. Ladies and gentlemen, not only do we understand this, but we also share it with the view of the main military associations, which propose the need - as we do - to address a thorough review of military jurisdiction. There is a need for doctrinal and jurisprudential justifications and, of course, a rigorous design, method and model, with seriousness and, above all, with the consensus of all. The form; the form, ladies and gentlemen. Our group, the Socialist Group, has always been present in the important changes of our country, adapting ourselves, taking the initiative. Socialists are active and necessary participants in change, as we have shown in our history and are demonstrating, every day, from this progressive government. But always, ladies and gentlemen, from dialogue, with responsibility, seriousness and with necessary legal guarantees. In short, and as Baltasar Gracián writes in The Art of Prudence - which, by the way, I recommend the ultra-right bench to have more in mind in the sessions -, ladies and gentlemen: the background and the form. The substance is not enough, the circumstance, the moment and the way are also needed. Ladies and gentlemen, our Socialist Group attaches great importance to the right moments, to the criteria on which any transformation that is being addressed in order to deal with it from the responsibility and rigour it deserves. We do not see it this way in this initiative, and therefore cannot support it, but we understand that the subject in question must be addressed in the future and we believe that the proper form is nothing other than the way of the deep study enriched with various criteria - military, civil, legal - and all kinds of criteria. In short, always with the pillars of politics, the most important pillars; do not forget them: dialogue and consensus. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nasarre. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u86	We move on to the agreement to deal directly and in one reading with the draft law repealing the objective dismissal for lack of labour assistance provided for in article 52(d) of the consolidated text of the Workers' Statute Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 23 October 2015 from Royal Decree-Law 4/2020 of 18 February. In order to establish a position on the agreement for direct and single reading of this initiative, I have the floor first, by the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito, for a period of five minutes. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u87	From my seat, President, I just want to remind you that this point is called to be debated in this Congress for the purposes of simply accepting or not the single reading of the bill, that is to say, whether or not to apply Rule 150 - if I am not mistaken - of the Rules of Congress, and there may be little debate about it, unless we want to keep a minute of glory in some medium; anything else remains in this debate. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor. [[Mr Cambronero Piqueras asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u89	Yes, Mr. Cambronero?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u90	Thank you, President. We give up our speaking time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u91	All right, thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u92	Thank you, President. I am speaking briefly. We do not understand what the groups who are bringing this here today, who are going to make interventions to try to confuse citizens and try to delay a parliamentary procedure that is clear. For the citizens who are listening to us, in article 150 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress puts - and I read textual - that the processing in one reading - that makes it possible to do our work faster - can simply be used when the simplicity of the formulation allows. Well, so that the people who listen to us know, we are talking about a real decree-law that is treated as a bill that has exactly one line, and in the line it makes clear: Repeal article 52 (d) which allowed for dismissal for objective reasons to working people who are on leave. Simply and simply put that, nothing else, is a line; that is, whether you agree or not. Any attempt to confuse or confuse the debate I think responds to other issues, and it comes to my head - impossible not to remember - what they did in 2016 and throughout the previous legislature. In 2016, when we entered here - we were new to the parliamentary group - the interprofessional minimum wage was a miserable amount, 655 euros. The first thing we did, the first bill we registered was the increase in the interprofessional minimum wage to reach 950 euros by 2020. This bill, which we registered in September 2016, had four pages - literally four pages - because the People's and Citizens' Party, with a parliamentary trifle similar to what they will try here today, were extending the deadline for amendments to work on them week after week. I repeat, it had four pages; that it would take a week to read four pages would seem understandable, but that it would take a week and another and another and another... Do you know how long it's been? Three years passed and the initiative ended up falling because the legislature was over. With this parliamentary trifle, in three years of the legislature they were unable to allow us to debate about the interprofessional minimum wage. And this has only two explanations: either they do not like to work at all and they have been charging a public salary for three years and they were not able to read four pages, or what they really wanted was for this House not to debate the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, which, I repeat, at the time we presented that was miserable for people who work full-time; eye, which were 655 euros! We intended - fortunately it is already law in our country and it is already in the BOE - that the minimum wage would be 950 euros for the working people as a whole, including the people who vote for you. But it did the same to them and they extended the parliamentary procedure one week, another, another and another to prevent the vote from being cast. Therefore, in this I ask you, as we have democratic memory, not to do the same thing, not to confuse the debate, not to put sticks on the wheels and simply to say if you want the working people to have a little more protection than they had before and that people cannot be objectively fired because they are on leave at work and that we help the working people to be a little less afraid and have a little easier to organize. They just have to say if they want to do it or if they don't want to do it and all else is confuse the citizenry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u94	Thank you very much. Madam President, thank you very much for coming. Background and form, said the spokesman of the Socialist Party; dialogue and consensus, has also commented. In this intervention, we are dealing with an exceptional procedural or formal pirouette by which Royal Decree 4/2020 was validated, repealing article 52 (d) of the Workers' Statute, and in turn unanimously approved by this House to be dealt with through a draft law by the urgent procedure. It was referred to the Working Committee, the deadline for tabling amendments was opened, VOX tabled an amendment to the whole with alternative text and it was agreed to apply Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure of this House for adoption through the exceptional procedure of direct and single reading. In short, it is a legal nonsense in which, if it occurs, this House would operate against its own acts, it would be a contradiction in terms, an inconsistency of the Legislature that should not be worthy of your lordships. One decree on another decree. Obviously, we cannot adopt it for a minimum sense of decorum, for it is clear that such a form would require a broad parliamentary consensus that does not exist. A procedure in which the demand for extraordinary and urgent necessity laid down in article 86.1 of the Spanish Constitution, which is absolutely lacking in objective reasons and opportunity, is forced and twisted. It is clear that what is intended by this pirouette is to curtail the debate, to prevent the contributions of the various groups that do not laugh at the graces or misfortunes of the Government, and very specifically of VOX and of 3,600,000 voters, to flee the consensus and to impose the progress and the left. A rule with a 40-year-old vetry and numerous amendments is urgently repealed before the coronavirus pandemic and all the unfortunate circumstances that have surrounded us, but, in addition, a rule that the Constitutional Court endorsed as non-discriminatory, but, yes, to the left it does not matter anything, rather to the contrary. With this action it deepens the uncertainty suffered by all the economic sectors by its anarchic legislative profusion during this dark tunnel, where the park has camped to its width since that damn March 8th that some fool is dedicated to victor, if not, of what urgent need after forty years of existence of the norm! And you wonder why, why? Because the left-wing government does not care to generate employment, but to regulate it; because the left-wing government does not care about entrepreneurs, but about reverential submission to power; because the left-wing government does not care about workers, but rather a famile legion of silent beggars; because the left-wing government does not care about freedom of enterprise because they do not believe in freedom or enterprise. It is intended that we should debate today to annihilate legal certainty, and what needs to be done with the Workers' Statute is to deepen the norm by giving the labour market the flexibility necessary for the survival of thousands of businesses and that they can preserve and create decent jobs and, therefore, the decent future of millions of workers and their families. And that requires dialogue and consensus, something that this process is trying to avoid. The left-wing government doesn't even care about people, because they don't know where they are or where they are; their vital concern is to spread misery instead of generating wealth, so they don't want dialogue, so they don't want consensus, and that's why they want the quick way. The Left Government wants obedient citizens, never better said, and for this they are capable of everything, and twist the norm to the limit as in the present. We cannot vote in favour of what we are asking for, we must vote not because these things are very serious and we must speak them seriously. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Aizcorbe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Movellán Lombilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u96	Thank you very much, President. I am going to exercise my parliamentary right, despite the fears of some Members who have preceded me, but don't worry, that I am going to talk about the bill, I am going to talk about it and try not to confuse the citizenry; I am not going to talk about the minimum wage because nothing has to do with this bill with the minimum wage, but if I am going to talk about the Workers' Statute. And I would like to begin by saying that the People's Parliamentary Group is going to vote in favour, because the nature and simplicity of the procedure allow it, but we hope and trust that this exceptionality will not become the new parliamentary normality, because this procedure will be shortened does not mean that it is free of falsehoods and because this bill that we agree to deal with today in a single reading has nothing to do with the labour reform that the People's Party adopted in 2012. With this process, what will be dismantled and repealed is the great lie with which the Labour Legislature was inaugurated. As much as the president, Mr. Iglesias or the minister who should be busy working, this falsehood is never going to become a truth, and will not do so even if you dedicate yourselves, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, to rubbing insistently that famous Aladdin lamp which recently appears to the minister Escriva. Article 52 of the Workers' Statute is nothing new to labour reform, it has been covered by the Workers' Statute itself and by the courts on a continuous basis from 1980 to the present, it has been with us for forty years. [[Applauds]] A responsible Government expects less propagandistic stone cardboard policy and more rigour. Labour reform is employment reform, as you are also implicitly acknowledging by applying it in much of those measures of your social shield. They have put the cry in the sky, we have only missed seeing them tear their clothes, to repeal a heading of article 52 of the Workers' Statute, which is not of the labor reform, which has been in force for decades and which is the cause of some thirty layoffs a year. However, they are wretchedly silent about the loss of thousands of businesses, self-employed people and hundreds of thousands of jobs in our country. [[Applauds]] Not a single word we have heard them say in front of the closing of Alcoa, Sniace, Nissan Barcelona. What are you guys in? Who do you rule for? I'm finishing up. But if anything has achieved this pandemic, it is that, with the obligation to put on the mask, you have fallen into the face, because you want to trust the future of our economy, of our labour market and of our country to a kind of game of 'fright or death', pacting with night and almost in hiding with the heirs of ETA, which must be recognized, yes, that these know a lot of fear, but above all they know a lot about death in our country. I'm sorry to tell you, you've gone from masks to skirmishes, and you don't think the Spaniards are strangers to this infamy. [[Rumors]] Do you think that the European Union, which is being entrusted with the task of saving their ballots at the moment, is looking forward to this new alliance between the government and Bildu to repeal in full the labour reform, which has created more than three million jobs in our country? [[The Rumors Continue]] I know it's hard for you to hear it, Mrs. Lastra; don't frown on Congress, that we're on the right track. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u97	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u98	Because what's really worrying about your reckless measures and your dangerous companies is that they're making many Spaniards pass them around. I end up in a kind way and with a piece of advice that I hope you can take advantage of. Stop lying, because on the day they come to tell a truth no one is going to believe them and, as Aristotle said, the punishment of the scoundrel is not to be believed even when it says the truth, and it must be recognized that no one wins this Government by scoundrel. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u99	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u100	Very good morning. After yesterday's good day with the approval of the minimum living income, the chorus is right when it says that joy is flower of a day, and more when we have to listen to the barbarities that the spokesman of the People's Party has just said in this rostrum. [[Applauds]] The truth is that it is hard to hear that it is not worth moving urgently to eliminate fears of sick people who fear being fired for not being able to go to work. Perhaps they are shielding themselves today from talking about procedure, or some of the skirmishes, not to mention the background, of that fund, which recalls that it was the People's Party that facilitated the dismissal for absenteeism from medical leave in its 2012 labor reform. [[Applauds]] Are they not hiding behind the joint text in order not to recognise a good and just proposal from this government which is not only moving forward with an assumption that put workers at risk, but - you, who are so fond of complying with the rules - this allows us to finally comply with the legal obligation to adapt the Spanish system to comply with European rules? And it is more curious that they intend to slow down the processing of this procedure after having experienced the slap of reality that has given us the coronavirus in this country, because today a medical discharge is not only a personal conception or an individual recommendation of the healthcare staff to a sick worker, but it is a matter of public health. Today, people who have preceded me in this rostrum should explain to the 700,000 workers in this country who have suffered casualties from the coronavirus that they would be likely to be fired if it were not because this Government is putting in place measures to prevent this from happening. [[Applauds]] You talk about rules and compliance, but at the first change, what you do is not comply with agreements and consensus, and we see it here today. The People's Party is putting the health of the workers of this Congress at risk by failing to comply with the agreement of the Board of Spokesmen to limit attendance at the Congress to 25% or by failing to comply with the statutory limitation to 30% ordered by the Ministry of Health. [[applause]] [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] But we came to talk about procedure, which is what marks the point today. [[Mr. Matarí Sáez utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u101	Mr. Matarí, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u102	Let's put a little order in what this procedure means. This decree has been passed in the Council of Ministers, it was validated a few weeks ago here, not even the People's Party voted against its article because it was... [[Mr. Matarí Sáez utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u103	Excuse me. Mr Matarí, please be silent; silence and respect for the speaker, Mrs Peña. [[Mr. Suárez Lamata utters words that are not perceived]] Mr. Suárez, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u104	Thank you, President. In fact, we have been given the opportunity for all groups to table amendments in time and form, and only two of the ten of us in this Chamber have done so. Article 151 has been complied with in relation to the handling of the urgent procedure and 150 - which we are debating today - is referred to in terms of form and content because, as that article says, because of the nature or simplicity of the procedure, and because this decree that is brought here is more necessary than ever, where we are only talking about deleting a small paragraph within an article of labour law, it seems like a drawer that we are doing it in this urgent way. I was starting with a saying and, as a good Spanish, I will continue with another. I tell the People's Party, with respect, that lying without memory loses the thread of history. I'm going to put a date, August 24, 2018. A number of parliamentary groups proposed an organic law to reform the Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability Act. It was requested that, because of its simplicity, it should also be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of article 150, and you, the right wing of this country, who at that time formed the majority of the Bureau, adelids of democracy, know what you did? The Bureau prevented this plenary from ruling democratically on a procedure that had been called for by the parliamentary groups that had joined the absolute majority in this House. [[Applauds]] So you talk about rules, you talk about democracy, but what is more democratic than the fact that everyone today - popular sovereignty, the representatives of the Spanish and Spanish - we speak here, live, in compliance with the rules, in the eyes of everyone, to repeal one of the most regrettable articles of Spanish labour law. Let us not forget, we want to start here in order to put an end to that commitment that we Socialists have to put behind us the labour reform of the People's Party, some rules, a bad legislation that affects all workers, those of Núñez de Balboa and those of the Gamonal neighbourhood. To finish, I have to tell you the following. Yesterday they did not dare to vote against the minimum income; I hope that today they do not dare to vote against it either because nothing resembles both injustice and late justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u105	Thank you, Mrs Peña. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin the voting.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u106	No-law propositions. No-law proposal by the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common concerning the withdrawal of decorations to Francoist officials and authorities who had observed conduct incompatible with democratic values and the principles of protection of human rights. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and Citizens' Groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 97 plus 253 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 49 plus 158 telematics votes, 207; against, 20 plus 37 telematics votes, 57; abstentions, 28 plus 58 telematics votes, 86.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u107	The non-legislative proposal was approved. - THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE PROTECTION OF AUTONOMOUS WORKERS AT THE REASON OF THE CRISIS OF COVID-19. [[File number 162/000222]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u108	No law proposal of the Republican Parliamentary Group on the protection of self-employed workers following the crisis of COVID-19. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist and Republican parliamentary groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 96 plus 253 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 67 plus 195 telematics votes, 262; against, 29 plus 58 telematics votes, 87.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u109	The non-legislative proposal was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u110	Joint vote on amendments to the full refund of the financial transaction tax bill submitted by the parliamentary groups VOX, Citizens and People in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 95 plus 253 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 47 plus 105 telematics votes, 152; against, 48 plus 148 telematics votes, 196.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u111	The amendments are rejected in their entirety. - DRAFT ORGANIZATIONAL LAW ON THE USE OF DATA FROM THE REGISTRATION OF PASSENGER NAMES FOR THE PREVENTION, DETECTION, INVESTIGATION AND JUDGMENT OF TERRORISM AND SERIOUS DELIVERIES. [[File number 121/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u112	Vote on the amendment to the full refund of the draft organic law on the use of passenger name registration data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crimes, submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 95 plus 252 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 5 plus 16 telematics votes, 21; against, 90 plus 228 telematics votes, 318; abstentions, 8 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u113	The amendment is rejected in its entirety.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u114	It takes into consideration proposals for legislation. Proposition of the law of the Republican Parliamentary Group, organic of delimitation of military justice. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 95 plus 252 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 18 plus 54 telematics votes, 72; against, 77 plus 197 telematics votes, 274; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u115	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u116	Agreement for the direct and single reading of legislative initiatives. Agreement for the direct and single reading of the draft law repealing the objective dismissal for lack of labour assistance provided for in article 52(d) of the consolidated text of the Workers' Statute Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 23 October 2015 from Royal Decree-Law 4/2020 of 18 February. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 95 plus 252 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 78 plus 217 telematics votes, 295; against, 17 plus 35 telematics votes, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-11-CD200611.u117	Accordingly, direct and read-only processing by the plenary of the above-mentioned bill is agreed. Good afternoon, everyone, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was two and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon.
