ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u2	Mr Sánchez, after a hundred days with exceptional powers, you have not achieved the new normality, but a harsh reality: we lack more than 40,000 compatriots, even if you do not recognise them all, and there are already rebounds, even if the Government does not take measures to prevent them from getting infected by Spanish airports. They only threaten to return to the state of alarm, instead of applying the legislation in force, as Germany did yesterday and I have been raising two months. The IMF and the OECD say that Spain is the economy that is going to suffer the most from this debacle and Eurostat reveals that unemployment here has increased ten times as much as the European average. That is why nobody understands that you end the liquidity program for businesses and self-employed people, just when they close large companies like Pullmantur, Alcoa or even Nissan, and neither is it understood that you refuse to extend the ERTE until the end of the year, putting at risk 2 million workers, but criticizes me for asking for tax cuts when even a left government like Italy announced it yesterday. Can you tell us what the government's economic and social forecasts are? [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u4	Nor has it been for so long, ladies and gentlemen. [[Risa.-A honourable Member pronounces words that are not perceived]] Pretty predictable. Thank you, Madam President. In any case, Your Honor, this is not the first time you have asked me about this issue. Here are the forecasts sent by the Government of Spain, here are the forecasts of the International Monetary Fund: a sharp fall in economic activity in the first half of the year and from the second half of the year and next year a recovery, let us hope, much more powerful and much more vigorous than was initially predicted by the international agencies and the Government of Spain. I want to tell you, in any case, what I have told you over the last few weeks, and it is that the unit not only saves lives, but also saves businesses and saves jobs. And that's where we've always reached out to the People's Party. Over these weeks we have reached out to them to reach agreements, and what we have seen over the past few weeks is that the People's Party does not want to reach any agreement with the government. [[Rumors]] If you want to reach agreements, let us start from the basic point of view, Mr Casado: defend, together with the Government of Spain, the interests of Spain in the negotiation of the recovery fund in Brussels, for example; eliminate, Your Honor, that ignominious report which you have sent to the European Parliament, which calls into question the rights and freedoms, in short, Spanish democracy, and thirdly, Your Honor, stand with the Government of Spain, with Europe in setting up a fee for digital corporations, against, therefore, the interests of the US Administration. [[applause]] In short, Your Honor, if you want to secure your shoulder definitively, what you must do is to defend Spain's interests in Europe and outside Spain, which is what this government is doing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u5	Mr. White Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u6	Mr Sánchez, you call for unconditional adherence, but you reject my extended hand. Throw the stone and hide the hand, as always. When you voted in favour of three extensions of the state of alarm, you pulled Mrs. Lastra to insult me here, and now that we announce support for the decrees, pull Mrs. Montero out using the Moncloa to attack us. [[rumors]] Do not forget that the European recovery plan is a proposal from the PP, headed by the President of the Commission, Von der Leyen. It is only called for stability and responsibility for future generations. Is that anti-patriot? For his vice president are ultra-right socialist governments such as those of Sweden, Finland, Denmark; of course, like Felipe González. But the PP always supports them in Brussels, as he did with Solbes, Almunia and even Borrell, while you vetoed Cañete and De Guindos. We are the responsible opposition that you have never been. I've offered him a Cajal state health pact for health; I've offered him a social agreement in the Senate... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u8	I have offered you a national office for the victims of COVID; I have offered you an economic activation plan and an alternative legal plan against rebounds, but you have not even valued them. I voted in favour of minimum living income and announced that we can vote in favour of the decree of normality, although it is clearly insufficient, and that is why we have registered today in the Reconstruction Committee - which, by the way, I also proposed - measures to supplement it. [[Laughter]] Mr. Sánchez, it wouldn't hurt to listen more to a party that has successfully managed two epidemics and two recessions. The ball is still on its roof, stop looking for scapegoats and start ruling for all Spaniards at once. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u9	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u10	Thank you, Madam President.The truth is that I am moved by your words, Mr Casado, what happens is that after your words there are your actions, such as the arguments you draw up, for example, to instigate your leaders in the Basque and Galician elections to use the deaths of the COVID against the Government of Spain or, for example, what you are saying that Barajas is going to be again on March 8, in a new conspiracy of the People's Party in relation to the COVID-19 epidemic. [[protests]] Your Honor, if you want to support the Government, if you want to shoulder it, I make it very clear to you: to support the Government of Spain in the negotiation of the recovery fund in Brussels, to withdraw that ignominious report against Spanish democracy and, thirdly, to support the Government of Spain in creating that digital rate against large technological corporations. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT MEASURES MUST BE TAKEN TO END WITH THE IMPUNITY OF WHICH SOME INSTITUTIONS OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/00226]] The PRESIDENT: Question from Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group. Mr Rufián ROMERO: Thank you very much, Madam President.Good morning, Mr President. Do you think that action must be taken against the galloping impunity enjoyed by some institutions in this country?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u11	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rufián, no one is unpunished in our country, no one is. Look, impunity means that punishable actions are not punished, and whoever determines the punishment is the independent judiciary, it is not the executive branch, it is not the legislative branch. So let us let justice work independently. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u13	Mr. Ruffian Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President.Let us work for justice, Mr President, and for Parliament, for Congress. Look, reality is clumsy and I'm lying to you. I'm just going to give you two examples. The first one, it's the least bad. The Crown, the monarchy, a king, a lord who - as everyone knows - lives in a palace paid for by everyone and who has not voted anyone, whose brother-in-law is in jail for corruption, whose father is persecuted by international justice and by the international press for his business with Saudi satraps. [[makes the gesture of quotes with your fingers]] And above all, a man whose honeymoon in the middle of the world was paid for by his father and by related businessmen. What are you guys doing? They're vetting their investigation. Let us ensure that this opaque institution, which is terribly opaque in this House, can be investigated. That is not a sense of state, ladies and gentlemen, that is a sense of omertà and impunity. What happens when it's published out who was the white elephant on 23-F? What's going to happen? And the second example, the worst. Mr President, in this country there was a para-police group, legally accredited, which kidnapped and murdered with impunity at the orders of a government in the 1980s. There's new information out there, and you, who have it egged out, veto that investigation again. Call him fear, call him equits. The point is that I am convinced that many of you are proud of Zapatero and ashamed of Philip. I'm absolutely convinced. The question is why they veto it and the answer is scary. And I'm going to end an inquiry into your ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations, Podemos. They have crushed us for years with contradictions with our government coalition; welcome. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u15	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Rufián. Let's see, I'll insist on your question again. There is no impunity here, justice works without interference from the executive branch. No one should be outside the actions of the judges, but no one, especially in the legislative branch, can be attributed the role of judge or prosecutor. The Government's position is therefore clear and firm and we are going to let the judges work and we are not going to interfere with the work of the judges and prosecutors. You speak of Felipe González, Your Honor, and I think it is quite clear what my position is, not only as President of the Government, but also as Secretary General of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Four won elections, almost fourteen years of government by Felipe González, an unprecedented modernization of the public health system, the pension system, education and integration of Spain in Europe; Your Honor, there is the legacy, the history of Felipe González, one of the great modernizers of democratic Spain. [[Applauds]] And I will tell you one thing, Your Honor, I remember a few words - because we were forgotten and I spoke one day from the rostrum in the investiture speech - of a journalist who said the following: We had to destabilize the state to bring down the government of Felipe González. Does that ring a bell? [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN BALDOVI RODA, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO COMPLETE THE INVESTIGATION AGREEMENT WITH COMMITMENTS? [[File number 180/00228]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u17	Question by Joan Baldoví Roda of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u18	Mr. President, do you intend to comply with the investment agreement you signed with Compromís five months ago?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u19	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u20	Thank you, Madam President.Thank you, Mr Baldoví, for your question. Obviously, yes, but it is also true that we have been at the head of the Government for just over three months. It is true that we have had to face an unprecedented tragedy in Spain, Europe and the world, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and we have therefore had to slow down the achievement of some of those objectives, but obviously the direction of those objectives and commitments remains in place. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u21	Mr. Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u22	We have returned to normality, to new normality, and we must look to the future, and the future of this legislature goes, among other things, through the approval of the general budgets of the State. Let us remember that we are still with those of Montoro and the People's Party, which are especially harmful to the Valencians, and that for the approval of the general budgets and for many other projects they will probably need every vote, as happened to them in the investiture or with the failed budgets that you submitted. I tell you this because there is a concept that you are putting into circulation with undisguised enthusiasm: variable geometry, which comes to be like a variable political promiscuity. In these exceptional circumstances we can understand it, we are adults and we understand everything, but we want to know if variable geometry will mean that you will fulfill the commitments you signed with others, not for us, but for what represents that agreement that we signed for 5 million Valencians who live and work in our community. We have a signed agreement that in the crucial points does nothing but ask for compliance with the law, something as elementary as this. A new funding system, we return to normality and we will therefore have to think about law enforcement. A pact for the state to assume 50% of the dependence - now you are only paying 12% - to protect our agriculture; for investments in the next General State Budgets to be in line with our demographic weight; for the extension of the port to comply with all environmental regulations; for the AP-7 to be free, without experiments. In short, normality. So, do we set a date to meet, Mr. Sanchez? This is normal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u23	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u24	Thank you, Madam President.Of course, pleased to meet with your group, it would be more difficult, and also to recover the habits and political debates that we had before the explosion of this pandemic. But I also say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that over these very intense months, where we have had to invest a lot of political, material and, of course, government action too, we have done a lot for the Valencian Community. In the investment agreement, for example, and you have made reference to that, the question of the autonomous financing system was included. The Minister of Finance has made a commitment to forward the first skeleton of the new autonomous financing system in November to Parliament. The AP-7 has been released, as you have well remembered, and I don't understand what you mean by the experiments. Work continues on the extension of the port of Valencia. And we have also been present in many of the issues related to the Valencian Community, for example, and I have said this here for other autonomous communities, updating the amount of deliveries on behalf of the financing system. The Valencian Community obtained 223.25 million euros. It has been offered to anticipate up to 50 % of the amount of the liquidation of the autonomous financing system for 2018, i.e. EUR 694.6 million for the Valencian Community. And thanks to the efforts of the Government, the Valencian Community can reprogramme EUR 222 million of unexecuted European funds, which will now increase from 50 % to 100 % of funding by the European Union for all expenditure linked to COVID-19. In addition, we have launched this non-reimbursable fund of EUR 16 billion, which benefits all the Autonomous Communities, and in particular the Valencian Community. In short, we are not only complying with what has been agreed, but we are doing much more than what has been agreed. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED CAYETANA ALVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE FIRST GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WILL THE GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATE THE REAL NUMBER OF FALLECIDED BY THE PANDEMIA BEFORE THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF HOMENAJE? [[File number 180/00231]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u25	Questions to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Cayetana Álvarez of Toledo Peralta-Ramos of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Thank you. Madam Vice-President, the government has announced a tribute to 60% of the victims of the pandemic. It's a partial tribute, a mutilated tribute, and you know it. Compared to the 28 000 victims recognized by the Government, the National Institute of Statistics, the Carlos III Institute and the funeral services employer, some 45 000 more people died in Spain between March and June. It's not a numerical misadjustment, it's a moral abyss. You leave 17,000 compatriots in limbo or, as expert Simon said, 'there'. Vice President, I ask you to think of them for a moment and answer me, please. Those 17,000 Spaniards, if they didn't die from the pandemic, why did they die? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u26	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, there is an important premise in this matter that you forget all the time: the data that the government gives and that it has given continuously, updated to 21 June, 28,323 dead by the COVID, they are supplied by the autonomous communities, also yours. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u28	Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: It is always the responsibility of others, never assume their own. Look, Mrs. Calvo, you lie knowingly. This is not a technical debate about who is or is not a victim of COVID, but an undeniable fact. I repeat, 45,000 more Spaniards have died in Spain during this very sad spring. It is an immeasurable tragedy, and you hide it for inhuman political convenience. Second, you lie to cover up the one that will be the great slab of your legacy. Spain is Europe's first country in excess of deaths. Is this your patriotism? Is that your social shield? President Sánchez also boasts that he has saved 450,000 lives. Frankly, why don't you say forty-five million and print T-shirts with your face, with your petrea face? And, thirdly, I suppose you know Bertrand Tavernier's film Life and nothing else. Yesterday I was reminded by a good and loyal Spanish official. It's the story of the officer in charge of identifying the French soldiers who disappeared during World War I. The officer strives to fulfill his mission against the wind, the technical difficulties and the tide of oblivion; he wants to find out the exact number of dead because he knows that each name has an infinite value. His commitment is summarized in the following sentence: With numbers he does not play, it is a moral question. That's right, Vice President, you're doing well and you'll end up presiding over a tribute to the ill unknown. That officer was also offered a similar show, but he refused to say, "If we do our job right, all fallen will be identified and honored." We say the same thing about our dead, neither is an imaginary sick man nor an unknown soldier, and all deserve equal tribute. Give it back, tell it, recognize it. For now, this tribute to the ill unknown you are preparing is, in fact, a tribute to yourselves. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u29	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, this week I thought that you, in the discrepancy, were asking for something very important, but you do not ask questions, you make constant accusations to this government, which, from the first minute, you have denied the existence, the legitimacy, because you did not accept what happened in this House with the inauguration and arrival of this government. And, ask what you ask, is what is constantly behind the intervention you do here every Wednesday. Look, as a medium of communication told us forty-eight hours ago, you have decided - whatever the final figure, unfortunately, of the dead in this pandemic - to make politics with the dead, of which you know historically enough, because it would not be the first time you do so in Spanish politics. If that is part of the hand stretched out, of the ability to find agreements with this government, you are the one who has not - literally - taken the message. The figure of 28,323 is the serious, corroborated figure of people who have contracted COVID-19, literally, as does a country that offers honest data. Obviously, in this country more people die during these dates, as every year. [[Rumors]] See how little distance we have with transparency, that this data is in official agencies, on websites of agencies that depend on the General Administration of the State. But that is not their problem; their problem is to constantly deteriorate and alarm citizens at a tragic time, where they have decided never to help, no day, with nothing, not even with respect for those who have truly died in this pandemic, contracting this terrible disease, to whom we owe respect, whatever the final figure is, every day, including day 16. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u31	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u32	You haven't decided that. You've decided to do politics with the dead. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u33	Thank you, Vice President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMING THE VICE-President FIRST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT intend to restore the credibility of the institutions of the State? [[File number 180/00237]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u34	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u35	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, does the Government intend to do anything to restore the credibility of State institutions?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u36	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u37	Thank you, Madam President. It is not necessary to restore what has not existed. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u38	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u39	Well, we agree, Madam Vice President. [[Laughter]] The credibility of this Government has never existed in the two years since Pedro Sánchez came to power. [[Applauds]] I am glad that we can finally reach a consensus between you and us. You have deteriorated all the institutions that have been in your hand, starting with the Executive, the most inflated in history, with the highest offices and the highest burdens that an Executive has ever had in Spain, and the lowest credibility for forming an alliance that you consistently denied in the campaign. Two, they have marginalized the Legislative Power, where they have avoided control of this House for weeks, their depending on the activity of this Congress and the timing of the initiatives. Three, the attacks on the judiciary by prominent members of this government that you have never rectified. Four, the Attorney General's Office, which became the Attorney General's Office thanks to the appointment of the former Minister of Justice, Dolores Delgado, directly out of her former cabinet. Five, the Civil Guard, used to pursue comments contrary to the Government, and to whose dome you have ceased precisely because you did not submit to the illegality to which you wanted to submit. Six, the State Attorney's Office, ceased because of the demand of those who want to break Spain. Seven, Social Security, whose rupture of the single box has negotiated with Basque nationalism and has begun to implement without debate in the Toledo Pact, through simply an additional provision of the decree on minimum living income. Eight, the CNI, now controlled by Pablo Iglesias; strike more comments. Nine, the unity of the nation that is in check with the creation of a bilateral negotiating table with separatism, something unsustainable. Ten, the Head of State herself, against whom your Government has not hesitated to organize caceroladas; against the Head of State, Vice-President. And we could continue with the Secretary of State for Communication, who has come to introduce pre-censorship by filtering questions from journalists. With the CIS, no one can believe anymore. With the AIReF, whose former president was awarded with a ministry a few days after giving the approval to accounts that were far from being successful. With the CNMC, the National Commission on Markets and Competition, so independent that its president leaves Mr Sánchez's cabinet directly. Look, you're not in a reconstruction process, you're in a State demolition process. You no longer have any credibility. The strength of institutions is the health of democracy, and you are precisely the greatest threat to institutions and the greatest threat to our democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u40	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, this week you took a tour with the People's Parliamentary Group to ask the stratospheric question, the stratospheric account, according to you, but, look, you have a major axiom problem: a party like yours, which calls this illegal government. [[Protests]] The question is this: 9 850 185 voters - the ones behind this government in its two political formations - are they illegal? Are the votes they cast illegal and illegitimate? Did the polls, the authorities who considered that representing them sat here 155 seats? This Bureau and the legal and legitimate investiture session of a president and the formation of a government? Are you going to ask about the credibility of the Spanish constitutional government? Do you, who put the whole system into death check - less bad than you don't even rub it for what you represent - saying that this government is not the constitutional government of Spain? You have no reason to ask this Government in this matter. What part of the respect for State institutions has you forgotten to even say that the 16th will not be in honour of the victims, with all the institutions and all the authorities of the State? What part of the basic democrat manual have you not yet read? [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY THEODOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE LORD SECOND VICESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHAT ARE THE PRIORITIES OF THE SECOND VICESIDENT FOR THE 2021 BUDGET? [[File number 180/00232]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u42	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I see you all a little chryspy and nervous. [[Laughter]] Mr. Churches has been worried for a few weeks whether or not the People's Party wins the elections. You, who have lost them all so far. Be honest, you never thought you'd be in government or vice president, because you're vice president thanks to a gentleman who didn't care to fool your entire party and all your voters so far as to agree with you. You wept with emotion in the investiture, because you did not think it possible that Mr. Pedro Sánchez, losing votes, made you vice president and now all of Spain mourns the frustration of having the worst government at the worst time. Cry, much, but manage, little; place friends at the revolving door, yes, but little more. Therefore, let us reflect on its usefulness. How is it possible that a gentleman crossed all of Spain through Barajas and did not detect the virus? Are you going to start again as with March 8th, hiding information? Are you going to stop the Civil Guard in Barajas? Are you going to blame the presidents of the People's Party, Mrs. Ayuso? It does not crack because they are only made but, for the thousands of lives that are at stake, we ask you not to turn Barajas into the new March 8th. Pablo Casado has asked them to extend the ERTE until the end of the year, a Cajal pact for health and aid to the tourism sector. Seriously, take it. Mr Vice-President, I ask you what your priorities are for the 2021 budget. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u44	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Don Teodoro. We must once again commend the display of erudition in your speech; when historians review the Journal of Sessions in the future, they will see that thanks to you this time of ours is the golden age of parliamentarianism. But remember what Talleyrand said: the exaggerated in politics is insignificant. In answer to your question, I will tell you that the Government will work to put Montoro's budgets behind us and to have general budgets that uphold a very important constitutional principle: the general interest, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u46	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u47	When you don't like reality, you hide it, and that too will remain in the Journal of Sessions, because you have the exact figures of the deceased, but as you don't want to say, you hide it; you received the warning about the danger of demonstrations on March 8, but as you put ideology above health, you hid it; you received calls from senior residences, but as you didn't want to assume your responsibility for the sole command, you hid it. Your Government is already reducing the wages of public workers, Mr. Iglesias, and it starts by cutting salaries in Renfe and ends up sending thousands of people to unemployment. We do not come out stronger because thousands of workers, thousands of SMEs and self-employed people are falling behind, and that will no longer be able to hide it.Mr. Iglesias, one last question, and answer concretely. The court investigates him for several crimes. Have you been leaked information from the D.A. about the matter they're investigating? Why did he answer the filter calls from the D.A.'s office and not from the senior residences? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u48	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Don Teodoro, if you want to accuse us of anything, go to court. [[One Member: More?]] When you have done so in the past, you know the answer. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u50	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u51	What was credited to a parliamentary commission, in which there was a presence of all the parties, was that its political formation built a police and media cloaca to investigate its political opponents, one of the greatest betrayals of democracy in our country's recent history. But going to the content of the question, I think there are many people, Mr Teodoro, who wonder what would have happened in Spain if you had been in charge of the government and had had to face the pandemic, and I think it is not difficult to answer that question, because you govern in some places. [[rumors]] Health professionals have played their part in life and health, and where you govern, as in the Community of Madrid, do you know what you do? Renovate the privatizations of six hospitals and try to privatize the cleaning service of the Gregorio Marañón Hospital. Now they're quiet, because the health professionals are protesting in front of Mrs. Ayuso. Do you know what it means at a time like this to betray healthcare professionals? Betray Spain. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF BAL FRANÇAIS, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: DOES YOU THINK THAT THE SOCIAL POLICIES THAT HAVE BEEN PASSED ON THE MARKET FROM THEIR VICEPRESIDENCE HAVE BEEN EFFECTIVE TO BREAK UP THIS HEALTH CRISIS AND THAT IT WILL BE TO AVOID FUTURE BROOTS FROM THE PANDEMIA? [[File number 180/00229]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u52	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u53	Mr. Iglesias, what is your assessment of the social protection policies promoted by the government in this crisis? Do you think vulnerable groups will be protected in the event of a rebound?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u54	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u55	Madam President, thank you. Your Honor, I believe that this government's response to the health crisis, but also to the social and economic crisis that has led to it, is unprecedented. We will have done some wrong, but I believe that today everyone, regardless of their ideology, recognizes that the way to respond to this crisis has been exactly the opposite of the way in which this country responded to the 2008 crisis, that is, a social solution to the crisis, to protect the most vulnerable groups, to implement a whole package of measures to protect in this country the people who need it most, not only for reasons of social justice, but also for reasons of economic efficiency. In that connection, in upholding the constitutional principle of the general interest, this Government will continue to work. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u56	Mr. French Ball.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u57	Mr. Churches, I'm asking for you. You have been a very irresponsible person, you have not lived up to the responsibility shown by the Spanish people when on 12 March you say that you are quarantined, as a result of your partner's positive, and forty-eight hours later you go to the Council of Ministers, on 19 March you give a press conference in Moncloa where you say that you are the sole command of residences and of social policy as a whole. In addition, your Government, your ministry and you have proved to be absolutely incompetent in managing this crisis. Since March 19, can you tell me any measure that took your ministry precisely in this type of matter? You've had very bad management. You must have many missed calls unanswered on your mobile of people asking for help. In addition, you and your ministry have done a very sectarian crisis management. You have said that the Government of the Community of Madrid has committed criminal acts, precisely when it went ahead with the measures of the Government and it was the autonomous community that suffered the most. He specifically uses the Reconstruction Commission to call a striker an opposition group. You join Bildu against Felipe González in eroding the foundations of our democracy. Irresponsibility, incompetence and civil war. We need consensus and you are dedicated to invigorating them, and you also have time to veto the anti-corruption law of citizens you previously supported. He is no longer interested in the protection of the complainant or pardons for corruption. Is this, as the People's Party has told you, because of the Villarejo case? You've been removed from victim status because there were no State sewers, because Mr. Villarejo didn't steal the SIM from you. Why has it taken you so long to deliver that SIM and also destroyed it, and you can even investigate it yourself? And I'm done asking him. Do you really want to repeal labour reform in its entirety? Do you want to leave the workers who today have hope in the ERTE without this legal instrument? You do not fight for the workers, you fight against the companies, and that is fighting against the workers, because without the companies there is no employment. Join at once in the consensus that Spanish society demands, Mr. Iglesias. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u58	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Don Edmundo, I'm going to read you something that says a dangerous Bolshevik, a Soviet leader named Kristalina Georgieva. She is the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, some already know her as the Rose Luxembourg of the International Monetary Fund, who says: right now, the focus must be on getting out of this crisis with minimal scars. You won't hear the IMF say this often: spend. But that's what we're telling governments, spend as much as you can. It is important not to make the mistake we made with the financial crisis. More dynamism must be injected into the economy. You have called this illegitimate government and social-communist government. Don't listen to me, listen to what the International Monetary Fund says. Look, Don Edmundo, the agreements are fine, but the important thing about the agreements is the content, and when you come to agreements you do it with the ultra-right and the right. Their political family in Europe constantly asks why they are the main European supporters of the far right. And with regard to the consensus that this country demands, this country demands something regardless of what every citizen votes for, which is to protect public health. If you were to protect public health you would not be ruling with the right and the right in the Community of Madrid, in the City of Madrid, in the Region of Murcia or in Andalusia, and this you know perfectly well, Your Honor. So, if you want agreements, your hand is spread. And with regard to anti-corruption laws, we are against corruption, but against the corrupters as well. Propose a law that can investigate your friends as important as Mr. Sarasola. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON OSKAR MATUTE GARCIA DE JALON, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE THIRD GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONCENTE TO APPLY THE REVENUE PROPOSED BY THE CEO? [[File number 180/00227]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u60	Questions to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Oskar Matute García de Jalón, MEP Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u61	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister and Vice-President, from the 15th to the present day, a forum promoted by the CEO with the name Spanish companies leading the future is being held in Madrid, in the capital of the Spanish state. In fact, today it is closed by the king and we know that it is closed solemnly, what we do not know is whether he is going to collect milk and oil. In any case, three key elements have been discussed in that forum. There has been talk of the need for greater labour flexibility, of the commitment to more public-private collaboration transformed into aid to businesses, and of the demand for a tax on paper, commensurate with the needs of businesses. Does your Government intend to apply the recipes proposed by the CEOE?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u62	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u63	Thank you, President. Mr Matute, the magnitude of the health, economic and social emergency we are facing is such that I believe we need all voices, all arms, rowing all in the same direction, to get out of this very complex situation as quickly as possible. This Government listens to the proposals of all political groups, listens to the proposals of all social groups, of all representatives of Spanish citizens. All ideas are useful and welcome when it comes to articulating a plan to get out, as I said, as soon as possible and as best possible from this very complicated situation. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u64	Mr. Matute García de Jalón.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u65	I have serious doubts that we can row in the same direction those who want to lead us to the perpetuation of a labor reform that has brought precariousness, that has brought unemployment, that has brought exclusion, that has brought feminization of poverty, and those who have suffered it. Sincerely, we have told you this as an active and passive government, a government of which you are Vice-President. They touch times of choice, they do not touch times to look for measures that are useless if it is not to further widen the gap between those who have the most and the vast majority, those who have the least. We sincerely believe that the measures proposed by the CEO, measures that have to do with perpetuating labour reform; talking about labour flexibility as a positive mantra, when what has brought about the latest labour reform is more temporary - and that is what the union Workers' Commissions has expressed in this very Chamber -; talking about public-private collaboration when they, for example, obviate that Netflix, one of the digital companies best known by Spanish society, has a tax payment in the Spanish State of 3478 euros - which is equivalent to what a Spanish citizen who pays 23 000 euros -, and that is not to row all in the same direction. As it is not to support measures which they seek, under the logic of public-private collaboration, to continue to benefit the interests of the privileged, in this case the interests of the great entrepreneurs. And we do not say this for a specific and calculated aversion against the great entrepreneurs; it is that we say this because, for example, Intermon Oxfam has said that during the period that has lasted the crisis of the COVID, during the time that goes between March 14 and today, the twenty-three ultra-rich - and the word chooses it Intermon Oxfam, but seems to me to be very adequate - have won 19,200 million euros. The figure of EUR 19,200 million is what the twenty-three ultra-rurals of the Spanish State have earned, while the vast majority of Spanish citizens have been systematically impoverished, when we have seen that people at risk of exclusion have grown by 700 000. That's why we tell them it's time to choose, it's time to choose if we follow the mantra and logic of big companies or if we follow the logic of citizenship, which is...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u66	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u67	Thank you very much, President. Mr Matute, you say it is time to choose, but it is not fair to choose only some of the ideas that are poured into a particular forum. I think it is fair to listen to all those ideas that we have been listening to over the last few weeks, over the last few days, and which, in general, show a huge social consensus of the whole social spectrum of our country, of all business representatives and workers' representatives. In general, all I hear is the same: we have to come out stronger; we have to bet on a transformation of our productive model that focuses on a green economy, on digitisation, on a stronger education system, on vocational training, on decent jobs and, ultimately, on more sustainable and inclusive growth. That's what I hear and what we're going to have to work on together. I believe this government's bet is clear. We listen to everyone, we listen to everyone, but our priorities are well known and are marked and demonstrated by the different packages we have been adopting from the very beginning, which clearly show our commitment to a shock plan to try to protect our productive fabric and employment, support for economic recovery from now on so that we can start to grow vigorously as soon as possible, and a recovery plan that focuses on those axes on which I believe there is broad agreement on the part of Spanish society, so that we can grow in the most environmentally sustainable way, but also from the social point of view. This government has chosen, Mr Matute; we have chosen not to leave anyone behind. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MARÍA MAZÓN RAMOS, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES TO THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT PROVIDED TO PROVIDE CASES TO THE SUPREME COURT AGAINST THE SENTENCE DATED 24 JANUARY 2020 OF THE NATIONAL AUDIENCE RECEIVED IN THE CONTENTIOUS ADMINISTRATIVE RESOURCES 114/18 ON VALDECILLA DUE? [[File number 180/00224]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u68	Question to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr José María Mazón Ramos, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u69	Good morning, Minister. Within a few hours of submitting this question, I was informed that the Government of Pedro Sánchez had appealed against the ruling of the National High Court that forced him to pay the 22 million debt to Valdecilla. Now you will have to explain to me why you have made this decision.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u70	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. Thank you, Mr. Mazón. I answer him very clearly. On 25 May, the State Advocate announced the above-mentioned appeal against the Hospital Marqués de Valdecilla, but I would like to clarify some important issues: the Government does not appeal, the State does so for purely technical reasons, which inspire any extraordinary remedy of cassation. The Law of the State, through those responsible who carry the matter, understands that the sentence harms the interests of the State and, therefore, making normal use of access to justice, as well as access to remedies and also to extraordinary remedies, this announcement is made which will be formalized at the appropriate procedural time. Mr. Mazón, discrepancy is not a problem; discrepancy is something that is articulated and here there is a technical discrepancy about the origin of the judgment which is the principle of legitimate trust, as you very well know. There is no question of questioning the commitments made by the Government. It's not about the funding of the Marqués Hospital in Valdecilla, it's not about the problem. The problem is, as you very well know, how certain subsidies are justified or enabled, and that is the question. But insert it, please, into democratic normality and procedural normality. Don't look for enemies where there are no enemies. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u72	Mr. Mazón Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u73	Minister, in Cantabria we find only one reason and it is the contempt and pre-potence with which you act with an autonomous community that, as a small community, do not value you to remain in power. The cantabres are convinced that they would not have done the same with other autonomous communities that we all have in mind. It is seen that you do not know the feeling of the cantabres regarding Valdecilla, which we almost consider our home. And this debt is no whim nor comes from any unnecessary expense. They have already forgotten that its origin comes from a tragedy such as the collapse of a hospital façade that caused the death of four workers and more than twenty wounded, in addition to having to rebuild the entire hospital. I remind him that Valdecilla is a national reference hospital, and so says an organic law, and this week we have known that during the pandemic it has been the hospital that has made the most transplants throughout Spain.In the last budget approval I told the president that he had to earn the trust of the cantabres, and the president of Cantabria has reminded him in all the video conferences that the debts must be paid. In this case, not only because the courts or the Court have said so, but because it is a matter of justice, a commitment for the Cantabria Government, and it cannot rely on bureaucratic details not to pay, which is what you always seek. This story starts to sound like a joke or a nightmare for the cantabres and not just for the regionalists. The truth is that I find it very difficult to understand the position of this Government, and I think it will force us to change our position in relation to it. One more aggravation that is added to all the news that has occurred in recent days, to add to the distribution of the COVID fund, in which there is an allocation for Cantabria really incomprehensible, which seems to be the product of a political trappy difficult to justify. You will have the opportunity in the budgets, but from the Regionalist Party of Cantabria you already know what you can expect.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u74	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mazón, don't look for a procedural conflict, a conflict between citizens. All the administrations, whether the state, the autonomous or the local, have as their reference the welfare of the citizens and there is the Government, and their commitment to Cantabria is inescapable; he said he would finance it and financed it. I have told you what the arguments of discrepancy are in one point. The complex reality of our Constitution allows us to play that procedural game and there is no reason to understand that there is a discrepancy with citizenship. Let us not turn a procedural discrepancy into a war between territories because there is no such conflict and there you will never find this Government. The commitment to Cantabria is total. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GIL LAZARO IGNACIO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: IS THE REST OF STATE PRESSES TO BE NEGOTIATED TO THE NEGOTIATING COUNTRY NEXT TO THE VASCO COUNTRY? [[File number 180/000238]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u76	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, is the rapprochement of ETA prisoners to the Basque Country being negotiated?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u78	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Gil Lázaro, although there are just over 24 hours left, I see that we have already started the electoral campaign in Euskadi. I say this because on several occasions I have already answered both questions and questions from your parliamentary group in the sense that you are now questioning me. I must refer to you, because you are a lawyer and a fine lawyer, which, of course, is done by applying the General Penitentiary Law. Article 72 of the same law provides for the need to progress, determine and classify the totality of the inmates, and always individually, which is what the treatment boards do and under judicial control. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u80	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. The bottom line is that your honor is talking to me about the election campaign so I'm going to tell you later. Of course, Minister, you still do not tell the Spanish the truth, and so I will try modestly to tell you the truth. For months now you have been conducting a direct negotiation process with the PNV to put an end to the current policy of prison dispersion, because this has been demanded by the Basque Government at the time. In other words, it is a matter of bringing all ETA prisoners closer to the prisons in the Basque Country, regardless of the nature of the crime they have committed and even though they have neither asked for forgiveness nor cooperated with the justice system. The Lehendakari Urkullu this very Monday confirmed that criterion. During the confinement the first results have already occurred: nine approaches and three semi-freedoms in exchange for PNV support to successive alarm state extensions. But it is that, in addition, you have started a process of indirect negotiation with the prisoners through Bildu. In these last weeks of confinement, you have facilitated the meeting of Bildu members in prisons with representatives of the prison group to try to convince the prisoners about the formalization of an agreement, which allows the general approach of all of them to the Basque Country and the application of prison benefits that end in a general covert release. That is exactly the reality, Minister. Therefore, do not talk to me about prison legislation or talk to me about an election campaign because neither thing nor the other has anything to do with what you are doing in the background.It is, in short, a miserable marketing: prisoners in exchange for a handful of votes, a handful of votes that you need in this House as a matter of urgency, of entry, to approve the General Budgets of the State, which are the lifeguard that Mr Sánchez needs, at whatever price, to follow at least two more years in the Moncloa. And the minister knows that we are not going to shut up about this, nor are we going to consent to insult and abandon the dead, nor are we going to consent either that the heirs of the murderers intend to rewrite the story at their will... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u82	Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Gil Lázaro, first of all, I repeat what I have already said: dura lex sed lex. I don't think you understand very well the scope of that aphorism. Secondly, you keep talking about dispersion, good proof that you live in the past. Dispersion was an important tool or instrument used to combat the terrorist organization ETA. The terrorist organization ETA was defeated in the rule of law environment; we are at another historic moment, fortunately for all of us. And again I say that the General Prison Law is applied individually, will continue to be applied individually, the prisoners of the terrorist organization ETA who deserve to be progressed to degree according to the law, and according to the criteria laid down by officials, treatment boards and prison monitoring judges will progress. These weeks we've talked a lot about professionalism and neutrality, that's what prison officials, treatment boards, prison watch judges represent, are you questioning it? Don't question your professionalism. He referred to supposed pacts, visits by Bildu deputies. Parliamentarians in Bildu, like yourselves, are public authorities and have the right and obligation to exercise their functions in terms that they understand fit and control the institutions. Is this going to get in question? Look, I will remind you of one issue; you have also visited penal institutions, prisons, perhaps not in order to properly control the authority and give an image and to be able to confront ideas. I repeat that the law will always apply. You went to Huelva prison and were allowed to hold an election rally. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE DIEGO GAGO BUGARÍN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: WHAT SOLUTIONS DO THE GOVERNMENT OFFER FOR WORKERS SUBJECT TO EARTH FROM 30 SEPTEMBER 2020? [[File number 180/00233]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u84	Question to the Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Diego Gago Bugarín, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u85	Thank you very much, President. Minister of Labour and Social Economy, what solutions do you offer to workers at ERTE from 30 September?Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u86	Minister of Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u87	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mr. Gago. Thank you for your question. In our view, the design of ERTE promoted by this government has become the most effective tool to protect businesses and workers. There is a social consensus in our country on this, except in the People's Party, which incomprehensiblely has been left out. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u88	Mr. Gago Bugarín.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u89	Minister of Labour, do not try to do with the destruction of employment what Mr. Churches does with the tragedy of residences: to avoid their responsibilities and spread blame. I think you are not aware of the real drama that is being experienced in thousands of homes in Spain right now, if not, you would not say what you are saying here; that is, you are not aware that there are tens of thousands of workers who have not charged a single euro since March in ERTE. Madam Minister, you have had to explain to the children this spring what the ERTE were; in autumn, to continue like this, you will have to explain to them what the ERE are, and on Christmas, Madam Minister, I think you will have to explain to them why they do not have gifts. I would like to know how you feel when you realize that the labour reform that you have tried to repeal from Bildu's hand, that the extended budgets that you have tried to overthrow and that are still, precisely, the social shield, the guarantee that you today presume thanks to the labour reform of the People's Party; thanks to it today we do not have six million unemployed in Spain. Minister, listen to him, listen to what the trade unions are asking him, ask him to do exactly what the People's Party is defending: to extend the term of the ERTE until 31 December in our country. Minister, let's talk about our land, let's talk about Galicia - you know it well - do you remember when barely eight months ago in an election campaign you were captaining and leading all the demonstrations in favor of the survival and defense of Alcoa, or when you were concerned, for example, about the dependency situation of many families working at the thermal power plant in As Pontes? Do you remember when I blamed the inaction of the socialist government? This was barely eight months ago. Where are you today, Minister, where are you? We don't see her. I think this is also a very good opportunity for me to remind the fourth vice-president that Article 18 of the climate change law which is intended to be adopted is a check for the majority of Galicia's fishing industry. So, Minister, all I can tell you is that you are a fraud. He said the ERTEs were a fraud and I tell him that the fraud is you, for Galicia and for Spain. [[Applause. - Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u90	Minister of Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u91	Mr. Gago, I'm going to talk to you about real frauds and real frauds. I am delighted that I am asking this question because I know him well, just as I know the policies of the People's Party and Mr Feijoo. I was well aware of what you were going to do, unfortunately: try to turn your question on a very important issue in our country into an electoral rally for Mr Feijóo, and I will answer you, Mr Gago. Look, thanks to the policies of this government, today in our country, called Galicia, there are more than 288,000 people who are welcome to an ERT. Look, Mr Gago, this means EUR 412 million for our public coffers. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u92	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u93	The total cost of these projects is EUR 533 million. Protected persons in Galicia. I am very pleased, Mr Gago, that you are talking to me about Alcoa, because I am actually going to talk to you about the non-existent industrial policy of the People's Party, in my country, which is called Galicia. [[Applauds]] I am going to tell you about this, I am going to tell you about the competences that Mr Feijoo does not exercise, I am going to tell you about Galicia, Alcoa, I am going to remind you, Mr Gago, that thanks to Mr Feijoo we have lost 20 000 industrial jobs in my country, which is called Galicia. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u94	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u95	I will also talk to you, Mr. Gago, about some companies that have dropped you: Alcoa, Vulcan, Barreras, Poligal, Isowat, 'R', Caramelo, T-Solar, Viriato, Alphageme, Conservas Cuca... I can go on to infinity, Mr. Gago. [[Applauds]] You're not going to talk to me about the industrial policy of the People's Party in Galicia, and you know why, Mr. Gago? He's not gonna do it, especially because I have a daughter who's ferrolan. I make boats, Mr Gago, I know industrial policy very well and I know very well what your party has done in Galicia: let us die the industry. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSEBA ANDONI AGIRRETXEA URRRESTI, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE MINISTRY THINK TO IMPROVE [[EAJ-PNV]] THE NEGOTIATING CAPACITY OF THE PRIMARY SECTOR AT THE TIME OF ESTABLISHING A PRICE POLICY BETWEEN THE REST OF THE OPERATIONALS OF THE CHANNEL? [[File number 180/000239]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u96	Question to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Question by Mr Joseba Andoni Agirretxea Urresti, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you know that the agrarian situation is critical, first of all due to a continuous and sustained fall in price quotations received in recent years, also due to increasing demands that result in an increase in production costs; there is increasing difficulty in selling our products outside the European Union, by Brexit, by US tariffs and now with COVID, let's not say now!, and while markets flood with products that do not meet the demands imposed on our farmers. At the beginning of the year - you know - important sectoral mobilizations were registered throughout the State and, as a result, you adopted a Royal Decree, 5/2020, adopting urgent measures in the field of agriculture and food. That decree-law is fine, but it also did not respond to many of the sectoral demands, forcing the ministry itself to create different work tables. Following the COVID-19 pandemic, the situation, far from being resolved, is getting worse and, meanwhile, consumer prices continue to rise and prices received by our farmers continue to fall. The bargaining power of our primary sector falls to the benefit of the rest of the value chain operators. Minister, what steps does the Ministry intend to take to improve the negotiating capacity of the agricultural sector vis-à-vis the rest of the food chain operators in order to ensure the viability of farms and their continuity?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u98	Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Agirretxea, thank you very much for your question. Indeed, as you recalled, on 25 February this government, at the request of the agricultural professional organizations, adopted a real decree-law that for the first time introduces a fundamental element, that is that the production costs of agriculture and livestock in our primary sector must be lower than the selling price of the products, but we do not stay there. He announced that in the coming days the Council of Ministers would make the first reading of the preliminary draft law transposing the 2019 European Directive on unfair commercial practices in the agri-food sector. In this way, we will try to respond to the three fundamental problems we face: First, the imbalance in the food chain, which has occurred more and more significantly from 2013 until now. Secondly, transparency in price formation in the food chain. And third, as you very well said, protect those who need protection, that is, the weakest link, our farmers and livestock. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u100	Mr. Agirretxea Urresti.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I share some of the issues that you mentioned, that it is necessary to incorporate mechanisms to ensure the proper functioning of the value chain and to ensure the competitive position of the different operators in it, but it is also necessary to incorporate all production costs into the price as a minimum element to be collected in food contracts. Each operator must be required to pay a price equal to or higher than the cost of production incurred by each operator. And it is urgent to amend Law 12/2013 with the participation of our primary sector and the other actors in the chain, developing a regulatory framework in the application to each sector. Minister, on a pilot basis we propose to start work on the value chain of milk, from primary production to distribution, because...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u102	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u103	Thank you very much. Indeed, the bill that we will be sending to Cortes this autumn will be discussed in advance with the autonomous communities. It will, of course, be the subject of a report by the Economic and Social Council of Spain and the Council of State, and we will have an opportunity to hold a major debate on the issues you raise and on other very important ones. I would like to use your question to say a very clear thing to all the recipients. Law and law enforcement are not an option, but an obligation. Therefore, that production costs are the basis for the negotiation of contracts in the agri-food sector is not something that is conditional; it is a legal obligation and we have to carry it forward. And it is the obligation of the Government of Spain through the ICA, but it is also the responsibility of the autonomous communities in the field of their competences. As you said, we will have the opportunity to work over the coming weeks and months to try to achieve a food chain that is more just and balanced, that forms value in each of its elements and that, ultimately, is the reflection of what has been the food sector of Spain, that has been present responding to all the needs of citizens in this crisis that we have suffered from the coronavirus. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON JOSÉ IGNACIO ECHÁNIZ SALGADO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE MANAGEMENT OF THE MINISTER OF HEALTH DURING THE STATUS OF ALARM? [[File number 180/000235]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u104	Question addressed to the Minister for Health. Question by Mr José Ignacio Echaniz Salgado, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister of Health, how do you assess your management during the state of alarm?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u106	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the state of alarm in Spain has worked. It has lasted ninety-eight days and has benefited all Spaniards. The study of seroprevalence, which has already been completed and whose definitive results we will soon know, gives us precise information that verifies, certifies that it has benefited all Spaniards. I'll give you some data. Today we have 1323 people hospitalized, but we have 47 000 people hospitalized on 2 April. Today we have 275 people in intensive care units, but we have 6576 on April 5. Therefore, the state of alarm has worked. The Ministry of Health has been the competent delegated authority until 23 May, together with colleagues from other ministries. As from 23 May it has been the sole competent delegated authority. We have issued ninety-seven rules and have held many meetings with the Autonomous Communities, which have played a key role in this period. I would like to take advantage of your question to thank citizens once again for the exemplary behaviour they have had, and also, of course, health professionals, who have allowed this epidemic to be doubled and controlled; an epidemic that is not yet overtaken, because we have worrying data at a global level, and that we will only defeat when we have a definitive vaccine or a therapy. We must therefore remain cautious, but we have managed to control it in our country thanks - I insist - to the state of alarm. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u108	Mr. Echaniz Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, your health experience was nil. In the face of an epidemic like this, you were able to quit and let someone know, but ignorance is often very daring. That is why you despised the serious reports coming from the World Health Organization since January. You did not collect material that would have saved lives or closed airports in time. You took your reaction long enough not to ban the 8-M and that had lethal effects. He assumed a unique command for which he was not qualified. His lack of knowledge of public health led us to a medieval quarantine, late, the longest in the world and that has crushed our economy. He took the money from the Spaniards into a fake material for his efforts to benefit companies with no friends' experience rather than Spanish companies with expertise. He abandoned the health care workers without protective material and, therefore, we are world record in infected and deceased. He hid his experts and has lied to everyone all the time with the figures of the dead. Minister, the balance sheet was a rhetorical question, because it has already been done by all the world's experts, who make you without distinction who is responsible for the worst management and the worst response in the world. That is, they recognize very well his ability to seek impunity and his inability to assume responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that we know the truth not only to avoid new mistakes, but because we owe it precisely to the 45 000 dead Spaniards. We now have new threats, Minister. Prepare the country for rebounds, establish maximum guarantees at airports and accept our proposals on health with the Cajal Plan, our legal plan and our economic plan. Minister, do not be irresponsible again, learn something and do not send Spain back to the abyss again. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u110	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Echaniz, you are part of a party that has had important responsibilities of government, also in the area of health, and that has them today in five autonomous communities. You yourself have been a Health Advisor in two autonomous communities in two different periods. That is why I am surprised that you, who have experience in health management, embark on this trivial exercise of predicting the past. There you are! We are working on the present and preparing for the future; preparing for the future of our country so that there will be no new rebounds, preparing for the future of our country to strengthen the National Public Health System, preparing our country to strengthen coordination mechanisms with the autonomous communities and in a permanent exercise aimed at its group. Look, the collaboration with the Autonomous Communities has been exemplary during this period. [[Rumors]] We'd like your party to have an attitude of hoisting the shoulder, we'd like your party to help...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u112	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u113	...as other conservative leaders do, for example in neighbouring Portugal, who stand on the side of the government. You always have your hand stretched out, to see when you decide to tie your shoulder. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF EDUARDO CARAZO BEAUMOSO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF UNIVERSITIES: IS THE GOVERNMENT ACCEPTING THE NEEDS OF THE SPANISH UNIVERSITIES IN THIS CRISIS? [[File number 180/00234]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u114	Question addressed to the Minister for Universities. Question by Mr Eduardo Carazo Hermoso, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u115	Thank you, President. Minister, I'm glad to see you because we haven't seen much of you in the last few months, I was worried about you, but I see you're all right. Those who are not so well are the students you have abandoned. How has the Government dealt with its problems during this crisis?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u116	Mr. Minister of Universities.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u117	Thank you, Your Honor. First, lie; I have appeared every time Congress or Senate has summoned me, as it could not be otherwise. [[Rumors]] I thank you for your question because it allows me to reiterate in this House that the priority of our ministry is students. As we all know, we don't know the future, but we all know something about the future: that they will. During this crisis the first thing, therefore, has been to ensure that they could finish the course, that no student would lose the course by the pandemic, and we have achieved it thanks to the full collaboration of the university faculty, the governments of each university in very close collaboration with the Conference of Rectors and the autonomous communities. But, in addition, just during this pandemic we have fulfilled the first two major points in this framework of the coalition government program. In other words, we have doubled the number of fellows; the budget has increased by 22% and there has been the largest increase in scholarships over the last decade. And, on the other hand, as we promised, we have lowered or reduced university fees, public prices specifically, which had been excessively high thanks to the legislation of the People's Party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u118	Mr. Beautiful Fucking.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u119	Mr. Castells, you remind me of Unamuno's novel, San Manuel Well, martyr; you're very good, you're not to blame for anything. If it doesn't fix any problems, it's because it has no competence, always shielding itself in university autonomy. You are delighted to be known, surrounded by the propaganda and incense of your own propaganda, with a scholarship decree that has been made to you by the Ministry of Education and which removes all reference to merit and with a regulation of fees that the autonomous communities will pay with the old principle of the left of me invite and you pay. Minister, if you have no competence, as you say, then what are you there for? At the worst time of the Spanish university in recent years we have had an invisible and absent minister. Of ninety-nine days of state of alarm you have not had your own agenda sixty-five. [[Displays a chart: Minister Castells' own agenda.-Rumores]] You took the confinement seriously, sir, Castells. Sixty-five days in which the anguish and uncertainty of Spanish university students grew, the uncertainty of those facing the less just and less egalitarian EBAU in history because of their inaction; the uncertainty of those who have experienced chaos for weeks not knowing what was going to happen with their exams or their practices because of their improvisation; the uncertainty of not knowing what the next course is going to happen, when will students know if they are going to start classes online or face-to-face? You just pass the ball to the universities and still dare to go to the Senate to spend jokes on students and college students. By paraphrasing Mr. Sánchez, do you sleep quietly, Mr. Castells? By the way, it is also uncertainty what Minister Illa is doing with the MIR students by not letting them face-to-face choose the place of their opposition, which will determine their future. Correct and listen to the students, Mr. Illa. Mr Castells, act, rectify, provide solutions or you will end up giving reason to those who think you are there simply and simply because we had to give one more chair to Podemos in the Council of Ministers, the Colau quota that is so expensive going out to the Spanish university and to the Spanish university and students. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u120	Mr. Minister of Universities.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u121	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, you continue to lie and distort reality for reasons of political propaganda Three weeks ago the Ministry of Universities, in collaboration with the General Conference on University Policy and the Conference of Rectors - because that is how we do our policy - issued precise recommendations for the next course, and all universities and students know that. [[Mr Carazo Hermoso shows again the graph: Agenda own by Minister Castells]] Maybe you don't, but it's published everywhere and it's very simple, you have to follow the sanitary prescriptions, there's no other. Therefore, the teaching will be face-to-face and we call it face-to-face adapted because it will have to be adapted to what the health authority says. [[Applauds]] - QUESTION MADE BY JOSÉ'S DEPUTATE MARIA FIGARED ALVAREZ-SALA, IN THE SUPPORT OF Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLÁN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: HOW IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO PROTECT THE WORKERS OF ALCOA? [[File number 180/000236]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u122	Question to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mr José María Figaredo Álvarez-Sala, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u123	Minister, how are you going to protect your government from Alcoa's workers?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u124	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Figaredo, for your question. Your Honor, this government has as a priority to protect employment, but also to improve the working conditions of workers and we are involved in resolving all industrial crises - also that of Alcoa - by putting all the means, as I said, to seek solutions while others remain profiled. And with Alcoa we are always acting under three principles: unity of action, search for solutions and institutional loyalty, with a single goal, Your Honor, to protect workers and their families. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u126	Mr. Figaredo Alvarez-Sala.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u127	Madam Minister, we need your government to listen to us and, more importantly, 2,000 workers from Lugo, La Coruña and Asturias need your government to listen to them. I don't know if when she says that some are profiled she refers to the Minister of Labour, who spoke so much and cried so much at the time, when she was in the opposition, and who now comes the government and completely forgets Alcoa's workers. But the reality, Minister - and this is also a message for the Minister of Ecological Transition - is that Alcoa will close for two main reasons: one, legal insecurity and, two, the costs of electricity. Because if a company of the characteristics of Alcoa were located in Germany it would save between 40 and 80 million euros a year and in these circumstances you will understand that aluminum or alumina produced in Spain will be very difficult to compete internationally. And your government - yours, not previous governments, not past governments, yours - has in its hand the key to Alcoa's survival because they have put on the table a plan, and the Minister of Ecological Transition knows - talk to her, please - that she has three legs. First, a statute for realistic electrotensives. Second, auctions for interruptibility. And, third, compensation for indirect CO2 generation. Because as long as your government continues to put the climate ideological agenda above industry, our industrial sector will be put to death. And I give you some examples that are very simple but very graphic, while in Germany they continue to exploit their coal mines, in Spain we have sentenced ours to forced marches. While in Germany they continue to inaugurate coal thermal power plants - which, by the way, will be exploited until 2038-, in Spain we close ours to forced marches and buy energy to Morocco, which generates it on the other side of the Strait with CO2 thermals. Therefore, Madam Minister, ask the Council of Ministers to listen to the Spanish industry and give it strength. And with that Minister of Labor who talks so much, make pineapple. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u128	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u129	Thank you very much. The truth is that it draws my attention, Mr Figaredo, that you ask me this question because we have been in the Alcoa conflict for months now. I understand that there are elections in Galicia and that, therefore, this is the reason. [[Rumors]] I am also surprised by the concern you have for Alcoa's workers, because when you see your electoral programme there is no protection of employment at all. [[The Rumors Continue]] Look, you propose limiting the exercise of the right to strike, you propose limiting collective bargaining, you also propose reducing the cost of dismissal to 20 days per year worked. And you mean to tell me that this is protecting, Your Honor, the workers? [[Applauds]] This is certainly against the workers. And I regret, Mr Figaredo, that you are aligning with the Xunta to protect Alcoa rather than aligning with the government to save Alcoa's workers. Yesterday there was a negotiating table, we worked to present an industrial plan and do you know what Alcoa told us? That you do not want that industrial plan and that you do not want to continue in A Mariña; therefore, you should align with the government against Alcoa and not align with Alcoa against the government. But, look, while they were telling us that they didn't want an industrial plan, do you know how much money they're asking us for CO2 compensation? I'm going to tell you: EUR 38.4 million. That's Alcoa. That's what Alcoa is: subsidies, subsidies and subsidies and not industrial project and protect workers. Stop demagogying, work with the Government to develop productive capacities, join this proposal for an industrial plan and let the Xunta continue against the Government, without industrial policy and leaving A Mariña's workers on the street. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u130	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to the third vice-president and minister for economic affairs and digital transformation to set out the measures that the Government is putting in place for the revival of the economy. For your defense, Mr. Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u131	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-PresidentMy first words must be of remembrance to my South Aragonese peasants who are suffering a resurgence right now, those peasants from the three affected regions of Zaidin, Binéfar, Fraga and Monzón, and I believe that in this case I can also speak on behalf of all the Aragonese and South Aragonese Members of this House. Therefore, courage, patience and we will overcome this virus among all, as it cannot otherwise be. [[The Lord]] Look, Madam Vice-President, we are here to discuss precisely what possible measures can be taken from now on with the aim of combating the economic crisis once the health crisis has been dispelled or is being dispelled. We have to have all kinds of precautions, all kinds of precautions, we have to act preventively. The People's Parliamentary Group will support you in this case because, of course, we have no choice but to be responsible because we are a governing party and we will be with you. But, look, what has caused the haze of the health crisis to be dispelled is that the internal gap in his Government has reappeared. There is a radical and asilvester left within your Government - which you do not represent but which is within your Government - that takes advantage of the health crisis and the economic crisis as an opportunity to demand a new economic model, a new economic paradigm. We hear dissonant voices in his Government in a systematic manner and cause us to be amazed, but not only at the People's Parliamentary Group, but also at an important part of society and also at national and international markets. I think we all have to be cautious, it is true that they often invoke prudence on all political groups, but within the government there are demonstrations and statements that should necessarily be avoided. There is a part of that bifrontal classification that the Government systematically calls for a paradigm shift. And you know why it happened? Because in this country for a few years the natural balance between the left and the right has been broken. From the moment you ran the balance towards nationalism and towards populism and communism you broke all possible pacts. Spain is built from the pactism, Spain is built from the concordia, Spain is built from the prudence and from the measure; but it is not built from the radicality, that radicality that turns progress into progressiveism. I have insisted several times not to use the suffixes, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, because every time they use a suffix they end up carrying the concept itself, in this case the concept of progress and the concept of well-being. Look, François Mitterrand began ruling with the communists. Do you know how long the government lasted with the Communists? Two years, because they brought the country to collapse and had to send back in that original exercise of seeking balance with those who were their unnatural allies to look again for what is normality, not that new normality that is normalization, but what is, as I say, economic measure and prudence in a liberal state and in a liberal system.These days we attended the closure of the Reconstruction Commission and I have found curious statements in members of the Socialist Party, but also in members of some of its partners. Some are still hidden in a dark zone between November 20, 1975 and October, 1977. Some still question what the virtues and goodness of a liberal system are and that really worries me. Look, Madam Vice-President, we have a second Vice-President of the Government, who is not in the Chamber right now, who is calling for the stateisation of some private entities. We are faced with permanent declarations in which the ever unstable balances between the public and the private in a liberal model, but always necessary since the end of the 18th century, are permanently in question. Does it make sense for us to question the public and the private, Madam Vice-President? Is that the best message we can give to markets, legal operators and traders? Is that the raison d'être of this government's public economy? Obviously not. And I know one thing, Madam Vice-President, when you shift the axis of political complexity to the radical left, populism and communism, I am convinced that people like you suffer, people like you see that this ideological overload ends up damaging the interests of our country. This is the reality. Look, do you know what happens to communists when they rule or when they finally theorize? I remember that Marcuse, at the time, who was the most critical of the consumer society, went to live in California, the paradise of consumption, to criticize consumption, more or less as Minister Castells does, who also goes from time to time to California. Do you know what the Communists of your government are doing right now? They go to a municipality in the Community of Madrid to live in a luxury residence to criticize housing policies. How curious is the assimilation of power and how curious is the incoherence when it occurs! But look, Madam Vice-President, we are entering the crisis in a state of asymmetry. You have spoken many times of an asymmetrical grape. The grapes are not geometrically asymmetrical, but it is true, Madam Vice-President, that the grape had begun before the crisis came because the entry situation was no longer a situation that we could reasonably say economically. Notice, growth forecasts had been corrected three times in the last four months. We have had to endure a permanent correction of the objective of budgetary stability, an objective which, by the way, we have been living in absolute heterodox for three years. Budgetary stability legislation has given it impetus in this ongoing process of conversion of faith that you have. Ten years ago they embraced budgetary stability by reforming the Constitution and approving the 135 and today we do not know what they are, whether they are apostles of budgetary stability or simply demonizing budgetary stability, as I have heard some allies of your Government in the Reconstruction Commission. Remember, the initial target was 1.3%. Later you unilaterally fixed 1.8%, then 2%, closed the national accounts with 2.6%, but Eurostat arrived, made some corrections and finally closed by 2.82 %. As you know, Madam Vice-President, the worst closure, together with Italy and Greece, of all the countries of the European Union. We therefore had an entry problem, Madam Vice-President, and that is that our fiscal margin was lower than that of other countries. I don't say that, because I might call myself an anti-patriot, but I don't think I call an anti-patriot the governor of the White of Spain, who has recognized, like all those present, as some former minister of the Socialist Party in the Reconstruction Commission, that the vehicle was coming with serious breakdowns and that it was coming with flu when we entered the crisis. It's reality. If in the end we waste 18 billion as a result of those Fridays - their main structural reform has been to change the Councils of Ministers from Fridays to Tuesdays - if we waste 18 billion euros, if in the end we inflate the budget deficit, if in the end what we did was to overwhelm us with an imbalance that placed us in a competitive position inferior to the other countries, where did we get to, Madam Vice-President? This is the reality, we go wrong, we also enter with the own shortcomings of an economy that has structural failures, systemic failures, with a great temporality in employment. They did not take a single measure in three years of real structural content; none. There was no reformist agenda, there was an agenda for the transposition of Community directives, Madam Vice-President, and by obligation of transposition, by necessary legal commitment, but there was no reformist agenda, we do not know it. And not only do I say that, do not call me an anti-patriot, the governor of the Banco de España also said that yesterday in the report he delivered to the Reconstruction Commission. That is the reality, Madam Vice-President. Moreover, the consumer confidence index and the industrial confidence index, which, according to the National Institute of Statistics, had been constantly rising for the first time, were falling in all its indicators and parameters; they had been falling for three months before entering the economic crisis. That is the reality, Madam Vice-President. We can understand that a crisis has to be addressed from the perspective of short lights, position lights and long lights, and we are not going to make any reproaches. We have been supporting and supporting most of their economic decree-laws because we believe in those economic decree-laws, because we understand that a set of immediate measures had to be addressed; but, simultaneously, Spain has to prepare for the future, and that is where we have problems, because we see no preparation for the future, Madam Vice-President; on the contrary, we are seeing that they have difficulties in designing an exit strategy, and I do not say that I am not an antipatriot, I did so by the Governor of the Bank of Spain. The Governor of the Banco de España said yesterday absolutely categorically and forcefully that right now it is time to start setting the necessary measures to be able to design and implement the economic policies of the coming years, because the reform agenda is going to be prolonged and will cover a very broad period of legislatures. There, of course, he is going to find the People's Party - how he is not going to find us! - and it's not that we hold hands, it's that the hand we have constantly held, because we are an opposition formation and because we have shown it systematically throughout this period when we have supported his decrees-laws. That is reality and reality cannot be adulterated nor can it be denatured or dethroned. The reality is that we have supported them permanently. I would like you to answer a number of questions because they are part of our economic programme and we want to know if you are in a position to reach agreements with us. Firstly, from the point of view of employment - and not as an anti-patriot like me, but as the governor of the Banco de España, who I understand is not an anti-patriot - the use of ERTE should not be reduced to the limited period of the next three months, but should be extended. This instrument has made it possible to cap the crisis at a delicate time, through, as I say, a legal and labour figure created by the People's Party, which, on the other hand, was cloned by most of the countries of the European Union. My first question, which is also put by the Governor of the Banco de España, is whether they will extend the ERTE regime until the end of the year. Will they modulate it or temper it according to activities, according to sectors, according to possible territories, as the Governor of the Banco de España himself says? But it says something else in the report of the Governor of the Banco de España, who, I insist, is not an antipatriot. The Governor of the Banco de España also said that it was very important to maintain the mechanisms of labour flexibility and, therefore, not to repeal labour reform. Madam Vice-President, it gives me the impression that in this case you are suffering from the internal polarisation that your Government is experiencing. Are you in agreement with that famous agreement, which represents the disconfiguration of the Socialist Party between the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, United We Can and, finally, EH Bildu? Is it going to come true? Will the labour reform against wind and tide, against the opinion of the Banco de España, against the opinion of the main public and private research bodies, be completely repealed? Next question. One of the main problems you are going to have, and I am going to end up, Mr President, is going to be business continuity. In the autumn, many companies are going to have difficulties, firstly because the coverage of ERTE is going to be extinguished and, secondly, because the injection instruments are going to be exhausted and there is going to be a circulating liability that will no longer be able to meet in October or November. Are you prepared to amend, as we have proposed, the Second Opportunity Act with the aim of ensuring the continuity of commercial operators, guaranteeing a fresh start, as the Anglo-Saxons do, without penalizing Anglo-Saxon law and without penalizing the economic system?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u132	Mr. Garcés, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u133	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Thirdly, from the point of view of budgetary policy, and I conclude, Mr President, that the AIReF itself and the Banco de España itself are expressly talking about the consolidation of public accounts. It is not said by an anti-patriot; it is said by the AIReF and it is said by the Banco de España, and it says that it can be done with a mix of public spending and revenue. Madam Vice-President, are you going - as the Bank of Spain says - to do a program to rationalize public spending online with what it said...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u134	Mr. Garcés, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u135	Yeah, I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u136	It's not that it's ending, it's that it has to end, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u137	It's half a minute longer, thank you for your patience. Are you therefore prepared to comply with the recommendations of the former President of the AIReF to eliminate 17 billion unproductive expenditure on subsidies? Are you going to raise taxes? What taxes are you really going to raise? Are they going to cover that 2% gap the Bank of Spain is talking about? Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u138	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the third Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u139	Thank you very much, President. Of course, I will begin - as well as your honor - by launching from here, as always, a message of affection and support for all our fellow citizens who continue to suffer the blow of this pandemic that is still with us, although - as you yourself pointed out - we are moving on to another stage and leaving behind the most intense phase of the health crisis. Your Honor, it is clear that the global economic scene has been shaken as a result of the shock generated by the COVID-19 pandemic. The forecasts, which at the beginning of the year pointed to a continuation of growth in our country, now anticipate that all European countries will enter into recession by 2020. That is to say, the health emergency has also become an economic and social emergency that has required the adoption of extraordinary measures and decisions that your ladies and gentlemen know well because they were adopted by the Government and - as you have pointed out - validated by this House week after week since the first package of economic and social measures adopted on 10 March. In response to international precedents - although, frankly, there is no comparable situation in recent records - and with all the cautions required by the high uncertainty in which we find ourselves, our forecast is an evolution in the form of asymmetric grapes, with a very intense drop in activity in the second quarter of this year and a gradual recovery in the second half, to achieve strong growth in 2021. At the moment, after hibernation, we can already say that the available indicators show a change in trend, with a gradual recovery in economic activity and employment, something we should all welcome, the truth. We must not throw the bells on the flight, because this does not mean that our forecasts for this year will change. Macroeconomic data from the second quarter of the year will be available in the coming weeks to capture the effect of the containment measures, which will obviously be negative. But as true as this data is that the recovery is beginning, and so is witnessed by the weather data, particularly those of the labour market. More than a million workers who were in the ERTE have already returned to their jobs - 150,000 between Friday and this Monday - and a third of the membership losses have been recovered until April. The Banco de España itself - which you quote - in its report of June, already points out that the recovery of the labour market has begun, that in May there was a resumé of certain indicators of opinion, those of purchasing managers, those of business trust and also some daily indicators, such as that of electricity consumption, point to an incipient resumé of economic activity, a sign similar to that offered to us by indicators of consumption, such as the expenditure by card, which show signs of recovery as the different territories of our country have progressed in the descalation of containment measures. So, of course, we still have a long way to go to recover the lost activity and employment, but these indicators reaffirm that our forecasts are prudent and our actions are correct, and that after a sharp fall in GDP in the quarter that now ends - very influenced by what happened in April - if the reactivation continues in Europe without significant setbacks and starts in America in a few weeks, if we continue to take the appropriate measures at national and Community level, the recovery will gradually accelerate over the second half of the year and throughout 2021. And I say whether we continue to take the right measures, because recovery work does not start now; it began with the first measures we took on 10 March, which have been completed successively and which now allow us to have a basis for the revival and relaunch of the economy. Because, Your Honor - as you know very well and have pointed out - from the moment this epidemic began and we had to make drastic decisions from the point of view of mobility to limit the contagion, we have been taking important economic cutting measures to preserve the productive fabric, employment and family income. From the very beginning, we have tried to weave together a safety net that would allow us to save businesses and jobs while at the health level saving lives, because we have made it clear from the very first moment that there was no false dichotomy or disjunctive between health and economy. Economy and public health, economic and social health, that is the indissoluble binomial. In the first phase we have addressed a shock response plan with actions focused on strengthening the resilience of the economy, a basis of resistance of our economy by sustaining liquidity, productive fabric, employment and family income, with particular attention to self-employed workers and the most vulnerable groups. Decisions such as protecting employment through the temporary employment regulation dossiers - which you have mentioned and whose usefulness and benefit I believe is commonly accepted - and the activation of a public guarantee line of up to EUR 100 billion to ensure the liquidity of businesses at these difficult times, decisions such as these have allowed us to hibernate economic activity without destroying the business fabric and jobs, and that is the basis on which we can now start the reactivation phase of our economy. If so far it is about sustaining, it is now about accompanying and supporting the progressive revival of the sectors, both in their needs for financing the productive fabric - which are expected to shift from liquidity for operational expenditure to solvency and investment - and in the need to promote the progressive integration of workers into their jobs by adapting extraordinary support to temporary employment regulation dossiers so that they continue to fulfil their task. As the honourable Member is well aware, the extension and adaptation of the special support system for ERTE is currently being negotiated with the social partners, and I hope that we will soon have an agreement on which the Government can take appropriate measures. Beyond this short-term action, we will have to continue to work with the social partners on mechanisms that will allow, in the future, adjustments to be made in hours rather than in workers, in order to promote training, the regular distribution of working hours, the professional reorientation of all workers who cannot return to the market immediately, etc. That is to say, to use, on the basis of this EERT mechanism, new forms of internal adjustment of companies that involve a change from our country's traditional adjustments, adjustments in the form of extraordinarily intense variations in employment. Of course, in addition to these horizontal measures of support for liquidity and productive fabric, of support for the reintegration of workers and the reactivation of the labour market, we must continue to support the tractor sectors most affected by the crisis with shock plans coordinated with the various social actors, such as the Plan of Shock Support for Tourism, the Plan of Support for Automotive, which were presented last week and which involve an important mobilization of public resources. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a very important point to point out precisely in this parliamentary seat, we must all be aware that the measures to support the sectors, the measures to support ERTs, the measures to support liquidity, reflect a very important effort by all Spanish society and a responsible government must ensure that the most effective measures are taken. Of the multitude of requests that come from all the productive sectors of our country and from all economic operators, we have to concentrate the effort and public resources, the resources of all Spaniards with the maximum efficiency to have the maximum impact in terms of growth. These are the foundations on which we are working, but, in addition to protecting our economic and social fabric, in addition to supporting reactivation, we need to go further immediately, looking to the future, to relaunch our economy, to regain the robust growth path that we had until last March, to tackle the imbalances that we have brought from the past, such as debt, unemployment and poverty or inequality, accentuated by this exceptional situation, and also to face the medium and long-term challenges, such as ecological transition, digitalisation, training or demographic change. That is to say, it is nothing more than to continue with our parliamentary agenda, that agenda for change, that road map that we have followed for two years, that reformist agenda to which you refer, and which I believe you know well, since I have degenerate it on many occasions over these two years. Thinking about the future, we need to address a plan of public and private reforms and investments, concentrated in 2021 and 2022, to drive changes that can improve our productivity and potential growth, so that we move towards sustainable and inclusive progress. As the honourable Member knows, because I explained it in detail in the Commission for Reconstruction, this plan will be deployed around six major pacts and it is a question, as the President of the Government said last Saturday, of setting up a new economy that is based on a change towards a decarbonised energy model, on the digital transformation of our economy and our society, on the education and training of citizens throughout their lives, on science and innovation, and on social and territorial vertebration. That was our plan for the legislature and we have been clearly exposing it for two years, we have been derailing it week after week with measures, with facts and we have done it again when we take possession, but the experience we have been living since March only accelerates these processes of change and makes it even more urgent to act in this direction. Our plans, moreover, are very much in line with the priorities of the European authorities; so, since their election, both the European Commission and the European Parliament have made it clear that they want to address the great challenges of this century, and this attenuation facilitates the task for us, because when you travel to the same site it is easier to find and help yourself along the way. Our aim is to make the best possible use of resources and synergies between national and Community measures; if European action is not to be hampered, we must all act with the same voice, of course with the same message to the European institutions. This is the message that the President of the Government issued last Saturday and today in this House, and I also urge you to work with the Government and to support Spain's position in the negotiations on the European reconstruction fund. I conclude now, President, with a general reflection because what we are able to propose and promote among all will determine the future of our country; and I repeat all, because a task of this magnitude and ambition, as I have been able to say to Mr Matute this very morning, demands the involvement of the whole of society, demands that we all live up to the circumstances, including employers, trade unions, autonomous communities, municipalities and, of course, also the parliamentary arc. We have before us a huge challenge, but also the opportunity to do something that is within the reach of a few generations: to take advantage of the many assets that our country has to modernize and help it make a leap towards the future, with more sustainable and inclusive growth. This harsh situation, which has brought us to the limit both as a country and individually, has also served us to reaffirm our priorities, starting with the need to strengthen our public health and care system, our welfare state.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u140	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u141	One last sentence, President. I believe that there is a great social consensus on this common goal that we must have as a country. I hope that, as an opposition, they will be able to respond to these demands of the population. We have much ahead of us, there are many uncertainties, but the recovery does not start now, it began with successive packages of measures adopted by the Government, validated by this House and on which I believe we must continue to work together at home and in the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u142	Thank you. Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Madam Vice President. Throughout the entire health crisis and the economic crisis you have spread an axiom that is completely fallacious, and that is that, being the global crisis, it has affected everyone equally. It's a way of dispersing and dissolving responsibilities, it's a dismissive thought, and it's been common in both health and economics. You know, Madam Vice President, that's not true. It is true that this pandemic arises 8000 kilometers from Madrid, it arises in Wuhan, but the impact it has had on the different economies has been very variable. Here there is variable cloudiness. That depended on many factors. First of all, structural factors of the economies themselves - it is true that there were elements of fatigue in the Spanish economy - but also of the speed or pace of entry into the crisis, which in this case was constantly slowing down, and you know it. You know our tax margin was scarce, not to say null. Why, for example, do Germany or Denmark respond differently to the economic crisis by injecting direct subsidies? We did not have the financial capacity to do so, we did not have the financing capacity, we had to resort to external funding. Faced with that situation, our room for manoeuvre was much more limited, we were timid and we were not competitive. What can and will happen is that certain companies in the common market are going to come out much more doped up, they are going to come out much more prepared, more muscular, as I say, in order to be able to compete in terms of neutrality, in general terms, within the Community market. That's the reality. The data is silly, Madam Vice-President, and we cannot blame them directly on the crisis, because the crisis, as I say, has a general dispersion effect, but it does not have a concentration effect. You know perfectly well that we are leading, among the first six countries, in the fall of industrial production, that we are among the first six countries in the fall of exports - by the way, that was the big lever with which we managed to get out of the previous crisis - that we are the country in which employment has fallen the most throughout the European Union and that we are the third country in the greatest fall of national wealth in the first quarter, 5.2% compared to 3.6% of the European Union average. But that is not what the anti-patriots of the European Union say, as are the international bodies. The International Monetary Fund - you know it, because it reads what it publishes just like me -, like the OECD, puts us on the line of the countries in economic growth over the course of 2020, only surpassed by Italy. In budgetary imbalance, we will be in line in 2020 and in 2021 Greece will surpass us, according to the forecasts of the International Monetary Fund. But do you know the data I'm most concerned about? And that's where I ask you to concretize, that we don't become here, talking before Marcuse, the one-way woman who doesn't answer the questions. That, according to an OECD report, if there was a rebound in Spain, it would be the country where the national wealth of all OECD countries would fall the most. That's the reality. Therefore, let us say that this is a global crisis - of course, that is a tautology, we all know it! - but what we want is to know the variables, the differential fact, where the problems are. That is why I am asking you for answers, and I am going to repeat the questions again, because I think they are the key to reaching agreements with the opposition, because we have already raised it several weeks ago. Firstly, are they going to completely repeal labour reform, yes or no? Are they going to adopt a package of measures to rationalise public expenditure, as requested by the Banco de España? What kind of tax mix are they going to implement? Because, by the way, according to the Bank of Spain and taking only the arithmetic average of the tax systems of the countries of the European Union, there is only a 2-point gap with respect to the tax pressure of the European Union, not 6 or 7, as is systematically said in some appearances; 2 points. Of those 2 points, 40% of the difference is the reduced and super-reduced VAT rates, which I understand are not going to change because they favour the taxation of those who are most in need and are most vulnerable; 30% affects the IRPF and excise duties, and the rest, mainly social contributions. You know, Madam Vice-President, that we are champions in terms of social charges in Spain. That's the reality. But I'm still here. What measures are they going to take? Because we have also raised this in our package of economic measures in relation to market unity. Do you know that in Spain twelve administrative procedures are needed to open a business? Do you know that it takes almost twenty days, according to an OECD study, to open a business, in front of other countries, where in one day, as is the case with England or France, the business is opened directly? One last question, because yesterday, in all the appearances here, I got tired of everyone talking about the past. We're settling accounts with the past. Are we talking about the future, Madam Vice President? What about demography in this country, which no one is talking about in this House?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u144	Mr. Garcés, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u145	What happens, as the Banco de España has said, when there is a fertility rate of 1.24 children per woman and a replacement rate of 2.1 is needed? What Christmas measures are they going to take to ensure that the new generation can bear the costs of that baby boom generation of the sixties and seventies, to which you and I belong? Simply - and with this I conclude - it is a moment of opportunity, Madam Vice-President, but it is a moment of credibility, coherence and conviction. Do not fail in those convictions, do not be shunned by that axis of the populist left that has done us so much harm and can do so much harm to the productive economy of this country. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u146	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u147	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I will make three brief reflections to react to your inquiry. First, that the pandemic is global is obvious; you point it out yourself. The forecasts of downsizing affect practically all countries and the world economy, all European countries, but of course it affects more countries which, like ours, have the greatest weight of those sectors that are most directly affected, such as the tourism or transport sector. It is therefore essential to reactivate the economy as soon as possible and, of course, to avoid a significant resurgence that will lead to a setback in this process of reactivation, both at national and European level. Our economy is also a very open economy that depends on the economic recovery of the countries in our environment. In this sense, we are all on the same boat and that is why we are also so resolutely supporting an ambitious recovery plan at European level, because we all have to go out together, if we want to go out stronger. Second thought. I try to avoid such disputes, but I am very surprised that he insists on talking about the lack of fiscal space as if it were something alien, when his party was in the government for the past decade and lowered taxes with a public debt close to 100% of GDP, and so far we have been operating with the budget approved by his government. I find it somewhat surprising that I continue to insist on an argument that has a boomeran effect as one appeals to the memory of all Spanish citizens, who know very well what I am talking about. Thirdly, beyond criticism of the Government, I hope to be able to count on that part of his speech in which he said that he wants to work with us and talk about the future. I see the difficulties, I see the challenges, I see the limitations, I see the enormous work - which we have already done and which we have before us - but, above all, what I see is that Spain is a great country; that we have absolutely extraordinary assets on which to build the reactivation and relaunch of our economy; that we have unmatched physical and digital infrastructures; that we have a solidarity society - as has been demonstrated once again - a flexible society, capable of adapting and facing any challenge as hard as it is; that we have a diversified productive fabric that has been internationalised, with small companies that have managed to adapt and are also willing to adapt to the challenges of digitalisation; that we have large companies that lead the sectors of the future - the health sector, the sustainable transport sector and the clean energy sector - all those sectors on which we are going to build this relaunch with the support of European funds working together. Therefore, if we manage to unite our forces and work together with the social partners - with the employers, with the workers' representatives - with the third sector, with all those who want to build a better Spain for our children and grandchildren, I trust that as soon as possible we will be able to leave behind this situation so dramatic that we are all living, that we will be able to reinvigorate this economic revival whose signs we have begun to see, and that we will be able to have a relaunch of the economy that will allow us to grow more sustainable and more inclusive, as I believe the whole Spanish population wants. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u148	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE PLURARY PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM TO EXPLAIN THE MEASURES I PROVIDED FOR [[Lord KANDAMIL KINGDOM]] THE GOVERNMENT TO SOLUTION THE INDUSTRIAL CRISIS IN GALICIA. [[File number 172/000042]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u149	We turn to the urgent appeal of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candamil, to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism to set out the measures envisaged by the Government to resolve the industrial crisis in Galicia.For his defence, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the social and economic crisis caused by the health emergency of COVID-19 has aggravated a previous situation of deep industrial crisis in Galicia that has been dragging away for years, without the Spanish governments - first in the hands of the People's Party, now of the PSOE and of Podemos - and of Galicia - controlled for eleven years by the Popular Party of Nuñez Feijóo - doing anything to stop it and, less so, to reverse it. We are talking about a crisis that affects different sectors within the already scarce industrial fabric of our country; it is true that with particular impact on the electro-intensive industry sector, but not only. As an example, throughout 2019 they closed technologically well-endowed companies, such as Isowat, in A Coruña, or Poligal, in Narón, but also a historic shipyard in the Vigo ria, such as Vulcan, which closed its doors after more than a hundred years of activity. In any case, Vulcano is not the only example of the crisis in the shipbuilding sector, a decisive sector in our country's industrial activity. It is still to be resolved, saved in extremis of the liquidation but with a solution that remains temporary, the future of Shipyards Barriers, also in the Vigo ria and sharpened in workload in relation to its capacity and without a clear perspective of stable future, the installations of Navantia in the Ferrol ria. These closures in the industrial sector are compounded by the policy of relocation of many companies, especially in the telemarketing sector, which in the case of Galicia accounts for more than a thousand jobs in the air, given the passivity of the governments, especially those who have powers here, of the Xunta of the People's Party and of Núñez Feijóo. A significant blow to economic activity and employment in Galicia was the announcement in 2019 of the practice of halting activity in the thermal plants of Naturgy, in Meirama, and Endesa, in As Pontes; in both cases there were no alternative plans to maintain economic activity and employment in those regions. In the case of Endesa, in As Pontes, with special impact, for directly affecting more than eight hundred workers. And, it should be noted, this is not a decision taken on environmental criteria that have to do with the concern for decarbonisation or the future of the planet, but a decision that the company takes for strictly economic reasons - it is a private company, it must be remembered that it was public before it was privatized by the governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party -, for a simple calculation in relation to the costs of adapting the plant to the requirements of reducing emissions and, we insist, without alternatives. In Meirama, the final cessation of activity will take place in the next few days and, in this case too, there will be no alternative to economic activity and employment. A particularly punished sector is that of the electro-intensive industry, with open crisis or uncertainty in the face of inaction or slowness in providing solutions from the Galician and Spanish governments. Ferroatlántica, Celsa Atlantic, Megasa, Al.Ibérica or Alcoa are some of the names of this difficult situation, behind which there are thousands of jobs, thousands of people who see their future hanging from a thread. The announced closure of the Alcoa aluminium plant in San Cibrao is the last episode of this crisis and one of the most dramatic due to the negative economic impact throughout the region of A Mariña. We are talking, in total, as I said, about more than 5000 direct jobs at risk of being lost and affected by whole regions such as Ferrol, A Coruña, Costa da Morte or A Mariña. The energy consumed by these industries is one of the factors determining the viability of many of these industries and, despite repeated promises, the Government has not yet approved the expected status of the electric intensive consumer. The draft presented in February did not provide a solution for this sector, so it is to be hoped that the Government will respond to the allegations made, including by the BNG, by the trade union centre Confederación Interunional Galega - which is to be remembered as the main trade union centre in the sector - by other trade unions, by institutions and by economic agents who, fundamentally, are all in a similar direction. Let us be clear, this situation of industrial crisis in our country is not the result of any kind of biblical curse on Galicia; no, it is the result of policies carried out - by action or omission - by those who have the responsibility to govern. In this too we must be clear, here responsibility is shared. On the one hand, a Galician government in the hands of the People's Party and Núñez Feijóo, which abdicated to carry out any kind of industrial policy worthy of such a name, despite having the competence to do so. And where it does not have them, as a good colonized, it silences and grants, always submissive to Madrid or with a falsely assertive attitude, which does not happen especially in these moments of party electoralism. What Galicia needs right now, what thousands of workers who fear for their jobs in Alcoa need, for example, are not electoral proclamations, but real and urgent solutions and solutions. On the other hand, a Spanish Government which, in addition to maintaining important industrial competences, has the exclusive reserve for the electricity system, which, as we have just mentioned, is at the heart of much of this crisis. A situation, by the way, which highlights the need for Galicia to have full sovereignty in order to be able to take energy production under its control and under public control, nationalizing it in order to put it at the service of the social and economic development of our country. In any case, Galicia cannot continue to wait, nor can the thousands of workers who live in distress, for what can happen to their jobs, without forgetting all those who are unemployed and who, with this crisis, see the possibility of accessing the world of work even further away in a country where in the last ten years more than 300,000 people - let us note that it is more than 10% of our population - had to emigrate in search of a future job that the policies of the Spanish and Galician governments denied them in Galicia. We therefore propose solutions that need political will to move forward, including resources, of course, but above all political determination. In the case of the shipbuilding, with a decided intervention in order to search for a stable and lasting solution for Barreras, and to recover the activity in the old facilities of Vulcano, beginning to maintain and extend, if necessary, the concession of public domain essential to enable the activity of the shipyard and that the president of the harbour authority - of the People's Party - intends to suspend to dedicate the terminal space of container. In the case of Navantia, the recent commission of sixty-two jackets for marine wind turbines is a breath, but the capacity and potential of the installations in the Ferrol range are clearly not exploited. On the horizon, after the Government ruled out the construction of an AOR vessel, there was the construction of the F-110 frigates. In any case, the BNG defends that Navantia Fene and Ferrol can and must become an integral industrial complex that diversifys its activity, but that sustains it on civil shipbuilding. It is not understood that the political veto to open Navantia of the Ferrol River to a sector that, with all the difficulties it is going through, has great potential and opens up expectations of more stable and continuous activity, which is precisely what we need. In relation to thermals, it is clear that there was a lack of forecasting by the Spanish and Galician governments. A closure without alternatives is not acceptable. The BNG defends the need for the ecological transition and for moving towards the decarbonization of the economy, but that transition must be carried out with social justice, and for that we need foresight and investment. Economic replacement plans are needed for the regions of Cerceda and As Pontes in order to be able to conclude fair transition agreements that really involve the reactivation of economic activity and the creation of jobs that allow to recover the dynamism of these two councils. And, what is important: that they enable a future for their inhabitants that is to bring them to unemployment or emigration. As far as the electro-intensive industry is concerned, it is time for the Spanish Government to fulfil its commitment to approve the status of the electro-intensive consumer, which really provides a solution for the sector, i.e. to ensure a stable, predictable and affordable price. To this end, it is necessary to improve the draft presented, acting, in our view, on the transport toll, at least in the case of surplus producer communities such as Galicia; here is the proposal of the BNG for a Galician tariff with a 100% bonus and also with the increase to 100% of the bonuses of the charges already provided, and complementaryly raising to the maximum permitted compensation for CO2, something in which other actors now agree and which Galician nationalism has been demanding from the beginning. By the way, they had announced that this Tuesday in the Council of Ministers would approve the PPP support fund, which would initially be provided with 200 million euros, and finally they did not. Why, Minister? One more delay. Do you think that the situation is not critical enough to further delay the solutions? And the big problem we face: the crisis generated by Alcoa's decision to close the aluminium plant. We recall that the situation of Alcoa A Coruña, now Alu Ibérica, is still unresolved. Today we know that the Alcoa A Coruña and Avilés sale was a fraudulent operation because the purchasing group did not meet the commitments regarding the industrial plan, and within a few months it was already negotiating the sale to an investor with a more than dubious trajectory, which allows it to qualify as speculative. It is for this reason that the Government that sponsored this sale operation must act to ensure the future of Alu Iberiana, including public intervention if private investors do not guarantee the continuity of the activity. The situation of Alcoa San Cibrao is highly worrying, it is true that although the Government was slow to react and propose solutions; yesterday, at the multilateral table, it presented a plan with a stable framework in the price of energy between 25 and 35 euros and the possibility of energy partners or industrial partners. A plan that can be a starting point, but needs two premises: the acceptance by Alcoa and the urgent realization of the implementation mechanisms - there is the problem, apart from the fact that the precedent of Alu Ibérica reduces credibility and reliability to the solution of sale or incorporation of an industrial partner - and the main difficulty in Alcoa's refusal to reverse its plans to close the plant. That, if maintained, leaves only one alternative: public intervention for the nationalization of the plant in a way that guarantees continuity...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u151	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u152	... of activity and jobs. I'm done. The BNG defends this solution: nationalization, from the certainty that there is no legal impediment to it and that it depends solely on the political will of the Government. I believe, Madam Minister, that the situation requires commitment and determination; the workers of Alcoa, A Mariña and Galicia would not understand that, if there was a solution, it would not be put into effect. In order for the BNG to overcome this industrial crisis and launch a reindustrialisation plan in Galicia is fundamental to our future and we hope that the Spanish Government and the future Galician Government will emerge from the elections on the 12th - because of the current People's Party, given its trajectory, we no longer expect anything - also understand this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u153	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u154	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr Rego, for this inquiry which allows us to develop a constructive debate on what you have done and what the Spanish Government is doing for the Galician industry. First of all, I would like to show the solidarity and support of the Government with the workers and families of Alcoa, in the region of A Mariña. I want to tell you that the Government of Spain continues to work to maintain the activity and employment of the Lugo plant. Your Honor, ever since I took office as Minister of Industry, I have always had an attitude of dialogue and collaboration. I have followed very closely the industrial crises, also the Galician crises, trying to attend to all the parties involved and helping in the solutions in collaboration with other ministries, with the companies, with the workers and with the administrations concerned. The Government recovered the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism just two years ago and, no doubt, as it pointed out, the lack of industrial policy of the previous governments has made it necessary for us to make much more effort to recover the lost time, and something that this minister is certainly characterized as a sign of identity is closeness, dialogue and also, ladies and gentlemen, proactivity. As long as the Xunta - if we talk about Galicia - remains on the profile and constantly holds the Government accountable for the problems that the Galician industry has, the Government continues and will continue to seek industrial solutions. We have faced various crises - you have pointed out some of them - and always with a very clear road map: to take a step forward in the process of resolving crises in collaboration with the autonomous communities and trade union centres, to show our willingness to intervene together with those responsible for administrations, companies and workers in the search for industrial solutions and, without a doubt, a commitment to promote new measures to facilitate the implementation of new projects for the future, as well as to make instruments to support industrial investment available to potential investors. Mr Rego, I do not share some of the reflections you have made regarding the passiveness of this government with the Galician industry. Mr Rego, on the contrary, we have always maintained an attitude of dialogue - you spoke of commitment and determination - of proactivity, in order to find viable solutions to industrial crises. You have pointed out some crises and I have to tell you that in some cases the action of the Government has been decisive in the search for solutions, and then I will refer to that. I assure you that you will not find anyone more interested than this government and that this minister will create opportunities in our country's industry, and my efforts to seek these solutions for the future, solutions that are viable and also within the framework of the European Union. Solutions that, as I said, do nothing, as the previous Government did. Frankly, I believe that solutions have to come from government support to the private sector and it is essential to maintain unity of action, a key unit of action, as I said, for the resolution of industrial crises with workers' representatives, but also institutional loyalty with the administrations concerned. The Government's commitment to industrial activity and employment in Galicia remains clear and firm, particularly with the electro-intensive industry, an essential sector for our economy, which, as you know, generates thousands of jobs, especially in Galicia. The ministry I run has been working, since I took possession, in areas such as electro-intensive to improve the competitiveness of industry in international markets. You recalled the commitment of this government to the adoption of the Royal Decree-Law 20/2018, which defines the figure of the electric intensive consumer. This is the first time, ladies and gentlemen, that our country has seen the figure in our legal system. A statute, that of the electric intensive consumer, which will allow companies to provide predictable scenarios of energy costs by reducing the inherent volatility of markets and providing legal certainty to industrial investors. I announce that this statute - in which, as you have pointed out, we have been working in the last few months - will be ready before the end of summer. I told you that we have been working in the areas of the electro-intensive industry with the statute that will benefit more than 600 companies and 300 000 workers, but in parallel, as you pointed out, we are going to approve, by royal decree-law, the creation of the reserve fund for guarantees of electro-intensive entities, in such a way that the risks arising from the medium- and long-term purchase-sale of electricity by the electro-intensive consumers can be covered by the State. It is certainly a fund that will give greater security and certainty and will once again promote investment by the players. Mr Rego, we hope - I am sure - to have a broad parliamentary consensus so that it can enter into force as soon as possible. I told him that this Government has a firm and determined commitment to Galicia and the Galician industry. I'll give you some data. The reindustrialisation plan we are developing has enabled more than EUR 204 million to be mobilised in Galicia since 2013. In the area of CO2 cost compensation, we have mobilised more than EUR 66 million, of which last year we invested EUR 42 million. We have also supported self-employed people and entrepreneurs through 205 participatory loans from Enisa, amounting to EUR 25.3 million. And you also pointed out the shipbuilding sector, which is so important in Galicia, in relation to which we have mobilised, for example, for the F-110 frigates, EUR 1638 million, and for the BAM ships, EUR 322 million. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you have no doubt that this government - I insist - has a firm and determined commitment to the Galician industry. In addition, Your Honor, we are leading a European response to support industry. I am working with Commissioner Breton to strengthen the European Industrial Strategy and the tractor sectors for the Spanish and Galician economy, such as the automotive sector, the agro-industry sector, the electro-intensive industry sector or the tourism sector, some sectors - no doubt - that are going to be within the scope of the European Union's Reconstruction Plan, in which, as I said, we are working. Moreover, within the framework of the European Union, Spain is also leading the development of very important mechanisms to strengthen the competitiveness of our industry, such as carbon border tax, which, as you know, will make it possible to compensate for this international environment in which the different climate ambition causes us to lose competitiveness. He has talked about some industrial crises in Galicia and I will refer to them. In particular, in the old plants owned by Alcoa in Avilés and A Coruña, as you know, this government - you have said - protected the continuity of industrial activity. We safeguard the sale of Alcoa apart, with the commitment, as you know, to ensure the use of the two plants for two years, until July 2021. On the other hand, on May 28, we heard Alcoa's announcement of the partial closure process of the San Cibrao plant in Lugo, which, as you know, includes the dismissal of more than 500 workers. I have to tell you, Your Honor - as we have told Alcoa - that we have a job to do. Yesterday, at the second meeting of the bilateral bureau, the Government's commitment to maintaining productive capacities was demonstrated. As you pointed out, yesterday we presented an industrial plan that certainly gives continuity to the Lugo plant and we find ourselves with a rejection by the company, despite the fact that the company had always told us that one of the problems of that plant was energy. So it seems that this industrial plan, which guarantees a sustainable and competitive energy price, is not the problem. I used to say that in my speech. While Alcoa announces a closure, on the other hand it is asking us for a compensation of CO2 costs worth more than 38 million euros. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the enemy is Alcoa and not the government. I regret that the Xunta very clearly aligned yesterday with Alcoa and against the government, giving Alcoa oxygen so that these families lose their jobs. [[Applauds]] We were asked to be proactive and this Government is proactive. He is proactive because he is committed to Galicia and the Galician industry. Yesterday we also made Alcoa a requirement - it seems that the only thing that interests him is to continue to finance himself with the taxes of all Spaniards - to update his commitments to that plant. As you know, CO2 aid since we arrived at the government is conditional on the company maintaining jobs for three years, so we demand Alcoa to comply with these commitments and, if necessary, we will require it to repay the aid. It has also referred to other industrial crises in the shipbuilding sector. He was talking about Vulcan and the Barreras crisis. Look, I have to tell you that, thanks to the intervention of the government, and again with the passivity of the Xunta, Barreras is working today, because, as I said, the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism began to work through Cesce. We have played a decisive role and, as I say, supporting the shipowner, the shareholders and the banking entities, a restructuring plan has been negotiated that will allow the ship to be completed by the end of 2020 with a forecast in the portfolio of the possible construction of new ships. Therefore, in the face of industrial problems and crises in Galicia, solutions from the Spanish Government. He was also talking about Navantia. Clearly the commitment of the Government of Spain for the continuity of contracts in Navantia is key. We were talking about the contract of the five F-100 frigates, with the mobilization of more than 43 billion, 7,000 jobs and a decade of work. Indeed, an important contract has also been signed in the marine wind sector with Navantia in A Coruña, which will generate more than 1000 jobs and a continuity project in an area that also helps us to decarbonization and sustainability. It is therefore a new example of the Government's strong support for the Galician industry and the Galician people. I'm finishing up. In developing that commitment, I also refer to two areas that you have pointed out, the case of Meirama and As Pontes. I want to tell you that the Ministry for the Ecological Transition is working on the elaboration of a fair transition agreement in the area affected by the closure of the Meirama thermal power plant. In the case of As Pontes, there have already been three working meetings at the follow-up table, the last on 22 June. A development plan to find industrial alternatives is also being developed at this table and I must also mention that the Ministry for the Ecological Transition will launch a first specific aid line to promote the economic development of these municipalities with 7 million euros and that will benefit especially As Pontes and Cerceda. It is a line at the request of these municipalities that increases to 50% the percentage of participation and with which we will undoubtedly be able to continue to develop projects in these municipalities. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u155	Thank you very much, Minister. The next item is Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, the problem is that we are in discount time. Alcoa's workers are no longer served by good words or good promises. Yesterday at the multilateral table there was no agreement and tomorrow Alcoa will start the formal procedure for the ERE of collective dismissal. It is true that the Xunta de Galicia abdicates its responsibility as a government, because, in addition to having competence in industrial policy, it has above all the political responsibility to promote social and economic development that guarantees work and well-being, and that starts by defending existing industrial activity and jobs. It's clear that Nuñez Feixóo doesn't. It's only used to make cheap electionism twenty days after the election. It is a irresponsibility that, instead of working for the future of our country, for the future of Alcoa and A Mariña, is dedicated to using the problem as a bold weapon in the electoral battle. Believe me, the BNG was and will be the first to highlight this obscene game of the People's Party and Feixóo. But that does not exempt the Spanish Government from its responsibility, because, as I said in the previous intervention, it has competence in industrial policy and exclusive competence in the energy sector. It must therefore act now, because, otherwise, it will condemn not only 530 workers, but about 1000 workers, because it must also take into account the workers of the auxiliary companies who are going to be affected by unemployment and a whole deep area of crisis. Before yesterday in the mass demonstration of Bulela the workers shouted: as vabas do not stop. That is the limit, when Alcoa decides to stop the vats the solution will be much more difficult. It is clear that in these circumstances, when Alcoa refuses to step back in the redundancies to negotiate, when Alcoa refuses to sell because by way it wants to eliminate the possible future competition, the only alternative, the only solution is public intervention, the nationalization of the aluminium plant to guarantee the continuity of activity and jobs, and there the government is not clear, you have not been clear. Are you willing to go to a public intervention process if there is no other solution? That is what the affected workers expect to hear here today. A few months ago his cabinet partner, the Minister of Labour, Yolanda Díaz, defended in an electoral debate, in which I too participated, the nationalization of Alcoa as a solution and placed the issue exclusively in the political will of the Government to implement it. We agree. The question is, do you still think the same thing now that you're a minister? Above all: is there really political will on the part of the Government to give a solution to Alcoa and to a strategic sector such as aluminium if it actually goes through public intervention? The BNG is clear: we need to put in place solutions that will give stability to the sector and to our industry as a whole. That is why, first of all, we want to establish a Galician electricity tariff which will reduce the costs of energy considerably, because Galicia is a surplus producer - it was more so, but it still is - and we pay the very high social and environmental costs, but we do not benefit from this condition as a producer country, on the contrary. I remembered it a few days ago here, Galician families and companies pay more for electricity than in Madrid, where they consume Galician energy more than 600 kilometers away. Secondly, it is necessary to intervene Alcoa in order to save activity and jobs and to intervene also Alu Iberiana if investors, if the Industrial Risk Group does not offer a solution of stability and continuity of activity. It should be remembered that Alcoa was a public company and that it should never have been privatized, because aluminum is a strategic sector and will continue to be in the future. Thirdly, it is necessary to implement a reindustrialisation plan in Galicia adapted to the demands of the moment and the challenges of the ecological transition guaranteeing development, social justice and well-being. Return Alcoa to the public sector, set a Galician electricity tariff, promote the fair transition, revive the naval sector and start the reindustrialisation of Galicia are goals for which the BNG is ready to fight and work. We demand from the Spanish Government and also from the Galician Government that they work in that direction because today it is a peremptory necessity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u158	Thank you very much, President. Mr Rego, we certainly share a common objective, that Spain, that Galicia needs a strong industrial sector, a dynamic sector, an innovative sector, as I said, with that just transition. This Government has defended and in its road map is developing, articulating a proactive industrial policy with a long-term vision to recover the time lost and aligned with the sustainable development goals of the 2030 Agenda; an industrial policy that needs an advanced country like ours, with objectives, with tools, with resources sustained over time so that better results can be achieved as a result of their continued implementation. You know that in the Committee on Industry I have put a great industrial pact into the political debate. That industrial pact should probably also be a compromise in your country, in Galicia, something which seems that Mr Feijóo does not contemplate but that the Socialist Party does have on its agenda; a great pact for Galician industry certainly needs his country. For two years this Government has demonstrated its firm commitment to industry, to the Galician industry, to maintaining productive and employment capacities, and to developing various plans. The last - presented last week -, the automotive drive plan on your land, in Galicia, where there is undoubtedly a large automotive ecosystem that needs to improve its competitiveness, reinforcing CO2 emissions compensation aid, developing a reindustrialisation plan through the Reindus plan, and driving, as you said, the status of the electric intensive consumer. A commitment that, without doubt, we also take with you, with the BNG, which will be very soon. We are also dealing with aid to the shipbuilding industry in the contracts awarded to Navantia and the defence of the CO2 border adjustment mechanism, which is so necessary to strengthen the competitiveness of our industry. He said Galicia has received significant resources since we arrived at the government: 34 million of the Reindus plan, with fourteen industrial projects; more than 50 million euros between 2018 and 2019; important resources in the field of CO2, to compensate, as you said, for the lack of industrial policy but above all to compensate for an energy price that doubtless undermined the competitiveness of our industry. Alcoa in particular - I point out again - has received over the last two years EUR 37 million, EUR 37 million, and has to justify whether it is indeed legitimate that it should continue to receive funds from this mechanism. We have made available to the Galician fabric all the instruments to strengthen its competitiveness, in terms of various calls, in R & D projects, in the manufacturing industry as well, developing sustainability projects. As I said, there is no doubt that this Government has taken industrial policy seriously and that in these two years we have deployed a whole range of measures to help industry and also the Galician industry. You will share with me - you said this in your speech - that the abandonment of industrial policy by the Xunta de Galicia, but also by the previous government of the People's Party, has its consequences in the medium and long term. We're seeing it. Decisions such as the lack of investment today make us face inherited industrial crises that are not the cause of this government's inaction; on the contrary, this government has prevented more industrial crises from investing in the Galician industry. We have inherited a 2018 budget that cannot develop and deploy all the industrial policy instruments that this minister and this government would like. Therefore, in the new budgets that we are presenting in the House to activate this reconstruction, I hope and hope that there will be unanimity on the part of all the parliamentary groups so that industry will be strengthened in those budgets. You know - and it was referred to the other day by a Member of the People's Party - that Article 30 of the Statute of Autonomy of Galicia confers exclusive powers in the field of industrial policy on the Xunta. However, it seems that the Xunta omits this responsibility and carries all its problems against the Government of Spain. Without a doubt, if Mr Feijóo acted in the face of his problems rather than blaming others for the problems of others, Galicia, the Galician industry, would have been better off during the years in which Feijóo has been ruling. We have entered into an investment agreement with you, with the BNG, in which we committed - and we will do so, Mr Rego - to having the status of the electric intensive consumer very soon, also to a new call to improve the Reindus Plan, to aid in the field of CO2. Also, Navantia's workload and the drive plan for the automotive sector are elements of agreement on which we are going to deepen, and I thank you for your support over the past two years. In conclusion, I insist, the Government has firmly committed itself to Galicia, to the Galician industry, without doubt; it is not alien to industrial problems, we act with determination and always seeking solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u159	Thank you very much, Minister. - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government to ensure free, peaceful elections and without acts of violence and intimidation in the Basque and Galician countries. [[File number 172/000045]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u160	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the measures to be taken by the Government to ensure free, peaceful and non-violent elections in the Basque Country and Galicia. Mr Garriga Vaz de Concicao has the floor for his defence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u161	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, last 15 June VOX presented a manifesto in which we called on political formations and the media to commit themselves to national harmony and freedom, to reject and condemn all forms of violence, regardless of the aggressor's ideological affiliation. Above the political differences is, or should be, coexistence in freedom and being able to express and share your ideas without any threat or coercion. And this is something, ladies and gentlemen, which, as you all know, has not happened in Spain for many years. In Catalonia and the Basque Country, coexistence is not based on freedom, it is based on silence. There is coexistence if no one believes, if no one expresses or questions separatism and its criminal means. Because those who dare to exercise their rights and freedoms are condemned to civilian death and to all kinds of threats. And this is a reality, ladies and gentlemen. Just a few years ago, on 24 June 1981, an infantry colonel, Luis de la Parra Urbaneja, died as a result of a terrorist attack the previous day. On 24 June 1981, two commercials were killed: Ignacio Ibargutxi and Juan Manuel Martínez Castaños, and on 24 June 1985, Ignacio Montes Abad, a sailor, was killed. From here, I wanted to remind you never to forget and remember that those deaths, gentlemen of Bildu, will always haunt you. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to thank you because ETA has stopped killing, nor are we going to tolerate the coexistence of the silence that reigns in the Basque Country and Catalonia spread throughout the national territory; nor are we going to leave unanswered the assertions of the French ambassador to Spain, whose immediate dismissal we demand from the French Government for interfering in our internal policy and insulting almost four million VOX voters. There is no friendship in the words of someone who wants to generate discord and division among the Spaniards. This gentleman said that in Spain individual freedom is not in danger, and it is true that in our nation still globalist policies have not led us to have armed clashes between Chinese or Maghrebi mafias as in Dijon, but the clear individual freedom that is being curtailed. I invite your ladies and gentlemen to look at the unfortunate and shameful images that Members present in this House had to live, our candidates in the Basque Country, sympathizers and activists; how the billet hordes and puppies of the PNV, Podemos and the Socialist Party threatened, insulted, frightened; how the members here in this House in the Basque Country took a serious risk of physical integrity. [[Applauds]] Faced with that, we are still waiting for convictions, ladies and gentlemen, or a simple mention in one of the many media outlets that exist. Individual freedom, of course, is curtailed. It is not possible to express opinions freely, nor to attend meetings of political organizations as it has been this weekend or as it happened a few weeks ago in Galicia, and even the physical integrity of members of this House, people who freely want to defend their ideas, is being put at risk. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that you will agree with us that it is completely unacceptable and that it is essential in our democracy to be able to fully exercise constitutional rights and freedoms. This is now, but it is well known that in recent electoral processes public order alterations - unfortunately - have not been isolated but organized by violent groups. These have not been condemned - I repeat - by many groups in this House and we could list a few in acts and even attempts at aggression and intimidation by our party and many other political parties. But let us go a little further into the matter because this atmosphere of hatred and persecution of the dissident - which he disagrees with of separatism or totalitarian progressive consensus - is the logical consequence of the constant incitement to violence and harassment that some political formations do, which some are in the Government, others are their partners and in some cases we even have to listen to them from the very vice-president of the Government with their war-civilist slogans. A few examples I will give you: the anti-fascist alert known to the current vice president; the famous programme to hunt down the 44 VOX voters in Marinaleda; yourself, Mr.Marlaska, encouraging those hordes against Citizens a year ago at the Pride Festival; Mrs.Montero, whose appeals led to those feminist songs that Madrid will be the tomb of Abascal; the chulsque vice president Iglesias saying that we are an uncleanness; and the height of moral misery was listening yesterday in this House to Mr. Esteban of the PNV confusing victims with executioners. [[Applauds]] Mr Esteban, were the three Basques, and therefore doubly Spanish, whom I mentioned earlier guilty? Are you going to tell us they would have done something? They're not ashamed! They're not ashamed! By the way, Mr Iglesias and Mrs Montero, let them know that we do not encourage or consent to slavery. The councillor, as you well know, is being investigated in the Guarantee Committee because, as we have said as an active and passive party, our party does not approve of those actions that you have promoted and encouraged since its inception and which today, sitting on the blue bench, curiously reject. And we're happy, but they reject everyone. They also reject those slaverys that Mr. Iglesias encouraged from the television channels Mr. Abascal, Mr. Espinosa de los Monteros or Mrs. Rocío Monastery; condemn them too, remind them. I am warning you, Mr Iglesias and Mrs Montero, that you will not manage to divert attention, you will not use us to divert attention from your criminal management of residences and to put women's lives at risk during the 8-M. [[Applauds]] All political formations that have representation in the House are called democrats, pacifists and proclaim coexistence. Of some of them there is no doubt, no doubt, but of others I confess that there are deep doubts. It's no joke what I'm raising here today, ladies and gentlemen. We're in pre-campaign and we've had serious riots and intimidation. In the Cuban and Venezuelan tyranny, from which this Government protects so much, violence is consubstantial, but in this constitutional regime of rights and freedoms it has no place. That is why, Minister, I ask you: what steps will the Government take to ensure free, peaceful and non-violent elections? And I also ask: will they be so relentless against those who incite violence, regardless of their ideological affinity? It is essential that we be aware of how much we are playing, Minister. You here today, in front of all the Spaniards in the House of Representatives, must tell us if you really believe that individual freedom is guaranteed in all corners of the national territory; if you can also look into the eyes, together with the French ambassador to Spain, Mr Ortega Smith and tell him that individual freedom is guaranteed in Spain. Or, for example, I invite you to come to Barcelona and explain to four children aged eight, five, four and two years that individual freedom is guaranteed because they have to go to the park or buy ice cream escorted with the National Police. [[Applauds]] You have the obligation, your ministry and all political forces in this House, and the commitment to ensure the defence of the rights and freedoms of all Spaniards. We encourage you, once and for all, to join and speak out on the manifesto that we have presented. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u162	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Minister for the Interior then has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Garriga, for giving a full answer to your written question in which your parliamentary group requires the Government to explain - I am opening quotes - 'the measures to guarantee free, peaceful elections without acts of violence and intimidation in the Basque Country and Galicia' - close quotes - I will, of course, proceed to explain the three main areas of work of the Ministry of the Interior in relation to the convening of the aforementioned electoral processes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Mr Garriga, the elections on 12 July are autonomous electoral processes, which have a complex legal regime resulting from a complex catalogue of different rules and of different origin: the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime; the statutes of autonomy, in this case, those of Galicia and the Basque Country; autonomous laws, as well as other rules of development, and the doctrine itself of the Central Electoral Board or constitutional jurisprudence. It is therefore an autonomous process in which this Ministry of the Interior, but also other entities of the General Administration of the State, have inescapably an important participation to ensure the proper development of the respective electoral processes; a participation that focuses on three major areas of work, which becomes detailed: firstly, in support of the logistics of the process; secondly, in ensuring security in the electoral campaign; and thirdly, also in the security mechanism for the electoral day itself. With regard to the first area of action, I would like to point out that we are basically talking about the functions carried out by the Directorate-General for Internal Policy, which consist of tasks such as the following. First, the management of postal obligations is amended to Post Offices. We are talking about the vote by mail, the vote by CERA or the vote by ERTA, which are so important, for example, in the Galician Community, or the distribution of electoral propaganda. It is also responsible for carrying out tasks such as the preparation of economic and administrative instructions for the management of the process and the allocation of the budget to the agencies of the State involved: the Census Office, the INE, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Secretariat of State for Security itself. And, finally, it is responsible for actions as relevant as applications for registration of political parties, follow-up of the powers of the State or supply the autonomous communities with electoral material of all kinds, if they so request, such as ballot boxes, booths and other supports. Therefore, Your Honor, it is a first work of material accompaniment, if I may express it in those terms, so that the electoral summons, which follows the rules proper to both autonomous communities, is developed with the appropriate means and with all the institutional support feasible by the State, as it has been for forty years, in which elections have been held in both autonomous communities. But I was talking to him about three areas of action, and at this point I want to stop in that of ensuring security in the electoral campaign. Mr President, Mr Garriga, as you are well aware, the electoral process in Spain includes a fifteen-day electoral campaign period; two weeks, ladies and gentlemen, during which dozens of public events, visits, walks through towns and cities, rallies or sectoral meetings will be held daily in Galicia and in Euskadi. At this point it is essential for the Government of Spain, for this Government, to ensure the security of the campaign, because to do so is to provide coverage of the fundamental right of citizens to receive plural electoral information in order to choose the option they create most appropriate and because to do so also allows that other fundamental right as important as that of association, in this case, through the creation and activity of the political parties themselves. Therefore, during the days of the election campaign, the security forces and bodies ensure the protection of the candidates, the security of the voters and the proper conduct of the electoral events. In the case of Euskadi - as is well known - it is guaranteed through the security policy followed by the Council of the Interior itself, which designs a special device, given the competences in this field. In this sense, your group and yourself make mention of a supposed lack of protection, but I have something to tell you. You register this inquiry last Thursday; on June 22, that is, before yesterday, Monday, you send an email to the Secretariat of State for Security, where you reiterate a request for protection that was not met because the elections were postponed, and where you remember the violent attacks that you have suffered this past weekend in the Basque Country, and you again request personal protection urgently for candidates. And what is my surprise that, on the same day 22, before I give time to assess anything or process your request, you give a press conference denouncing that you are unprotected and that you have to put private escort. It's unfortunate, Your Honor, your problem with lies. But we were talking about campaign protection and we took it back. In the case of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, the Government delegation is responsible for coordinating the security of the pre-campaign and campaign, and it is done through permanent contact with the Electoral Board in coordination with the State Security Forces and Bodies. In this way, when it is known that a political force has reported that it wants to conduct an electoral act, the corresponding Sub-Delegation of Government transfers it to the Security Forces and Bodies, in order to evaluate the act, assess the possible risks and define, if necessary, the specific and necessary arrangements. In this regard, Your Honor, I would like to point out to you that it is neither the Government Delegation nor the Sub-Delegation nor the Interior Council of the Basque Government who value it; it is done by the National Police, the Civil Guard and the Ertzaintza, and they do so according to objective and technical criteria, which are at all times guiding the actions that follow. That is, it is the candidatures - as it cannot be otherwise - that decide the place of celebration of their acts, and it is the security forces and bodies that evaluate, design and implement protection and security devices so that the acts will pass with all normality, as has been happening - I repeat - for the last forty years. Of the statements of prominent members of his party there is an interest - I don't know if because they are two territories where his party has no presence at all or because of the bad electoral prospects - in implying that one cannot make politics normally, implying that Galician or Basque citizens do not have the complete freedom to make their own decisions. You will see, Your Honor, it is grave to insinuate it, first of all, because it hides prejudices, if not contempt, to the maturity of the people living in Galicia or in Euskadi. But you will see, ladies and gentlemen, these kinds of insinuations that you are launching, not this one, but all the electoral processes; processes that have allowed the Galician Parliament to develop its activity during ten legislatures, or that the Basque Parliament has been instrumental in developing self-government during twelve other legislatures, in two of which the leader of his party had a seat in the People's Parliamentary Group before jumping to Madrid's politics at the hand of Ignacio González. Mr President, I shall conclude. Alongside logistical support and the protection of campaigning events, there is one aspect I would like to mention: the guarantee of security in the electoral day itself. In this respect, it is the security forces and bodies - the Ertzaintza, in the case of Euskadi - that guarantee the proper development of the electoral day. To this end, various tasks are carried out, such as stepping up the surveillance of critical infrastructures essential for the proper performance of the electoral process; activation of security devices in polling stations and in the immediate vicinity, in order to guarantee the free right to vote and to assist in the conduct of polling stations or to prevent offences or offences of an electoral nature. I'm done with the president. Your Honor, we will work in these three areas: logistical support, campaign security and the protection of election day. And we will do so so that, once again, the elections in Euskadi and Galicia take place peacefully, freely and without incident. And let me tell you that, as you have said, as we are responsible for ensuring security and ensuring the absence of violence and combating all kinds of violence, from the Ministry of the Interior we are going to continue to fight against macho violence, because there is macho violence, there is violence against women, and it is the most relevant and important element of the lack of effective equality between men and women, so this Government - this country - continues and will continue to fight. [[applause]] And I would like to say something more in this regard: take the opportunity of the reply in order to be able to retract those negationist speeches from your parliamentary group which cast doubt on a reality that causes such significant damage to more than half of humanity. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u165	Finally, I would like to say that I obviously share the statements made by the French Ambassador to Spain, Jean-Michel Casa. In Spain, after forty years, individual rights are not at risk; they are not at risk, because we are on guard against negationist discourses and speeches that do want to call into question the freedom and diversity of the Spanish people. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u166	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Garriga Vaz de Concicao has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u167	Mr Marlaska, I see that you have not heard anything from my previous speech, because I was curiously pointing out that with these speeches that you are making pointing out to political parties, to Spaniards who freely defend a number of ideas, you continue to demonise, pointing out, stigmatizing and hanging things that are absolutely false. [[Applauds]] We can repeat it fifty times if you want. We condemn all kinds of violence, towards women, towards children, towards the elderly. Do not ascribe to us bubbles, do not tell lies, Mr Marlaska, do not try to hang us sambenitos because the Spaniards know perfectly well that if we have something - which we have many things - it is that this parliamentary group and this political party is coherent since its foundation. [[Applauds]] Mr Marlaska, you are engaged in the same arguments and debates as the PNV. Are you telling us where we have to go to a rally or where we don't have to go? You've suggested that we go to places where we don't get well or we don't have votes. We will go from the north to the south and kick all the peoples of Spain to point out the enemies of Spain and the enemies of freedom, who are sitting on the blue bench and who are a grave risk to the survival of the nation, of rights and freedoms, Mr Marlaska. [[Applauds]] And it also tells me that it coincides with Mr. Ambassador. Indeed, I would like to reiterate my invitation to you: you and Mr. Ambassador come to Barcelona and walk with a father of your family and your four children because they are going to have an ice cream or because the park and you will see whether you are going with the National Police or not, Mr. Marlaska. That is a clear violation of individual rights and, therefore, clearly, in this country they are being curtailed, surely and largely because for many years the Socialist Party and People's Party governments have contributed to the fact that the nationalist beast and the separatists are becoming more belligerent and in full rebellion, as we are currently living. [[Applauds]] He was talking about protection, about the protection of candidates. Do you know how many people this weekend were trying to access a rally to listen to ideas from a political party, as you well say, which is running for elections - would it be more lacking!- democratic and free? I really invite you to look at the video and see what happened, to see if exceptional measures are to be taken, and above all, not to contribute to those hate speeches, because those who are generating them have names and surnames, and you are one of them, Mr Marlaska. [[Applauds]] He spoke of maturity saying that I insinuated that Basque or Galician society is not mature because they are not free. Do you really believe that in the Basque Country or Galicia, as explained above, coexistence is fully free? Do you really believe him? That coexistence is based on silence, on fear because it knows, like me, that they point out and intimidate them for defending freedom, for truly pointing to the totalitarians who have kidnapped, in this case, my land, Catalonia, or my land too, that it is the Basque country, because they have kidnapped and are undermining freedom. Therefore, it is not a matter of maturity but of giving the battle for freedom and of recovering all those corners where the separatists, thanks to the invaluable help of governments like theirs - I repeat? - are in full rebellion. [[Applauds]] Mr. Marlaska, it's very simple. When you come up to this rostrum, do you reply: do you join our manifesto? Do you condemn and reject all forms of violence, regardless of political affiliation? Say it, it's very simple: yes or no? We really encourage you to join that manifesto, to condemn all kinds of violence and to leave the rallies for demonstrations, for squares and to be serious and rigorous here, to add and really contribute to placating that discourse of hatred, which in no way is generated by us, but you are the main generators of hatred, confrontation and division among Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Garriga. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Garriga, I will try to be all the serious and rigorous that you have not been able to be. [[Applauds]] And I say this to you because you mentioned that I insinuated where they could go or not go to perform the acts. I refer you to the Journal of Sessions and see what I have said about it. You ask me to explain to you what the Ministry of the Interior is doing in connection with the next elections on 12 July, and I have explained it to you or tried to explain it to you. We will work to ensure the logistics of the process, ensure the security of the electoral campaign of all candidates and the proper development of the electoral day in cooperation and collaboration, and respecting the exclusive competences of the Ertzaintza security in Euskadi. You, as in your first intervention, tell me specific episodes and incidents. And in that ease that your parliamentary group has to fable, you come to drop that perhaps the elections in the Basque Country, above all, or in Galicia are not free. But I deny you the greatest, I deny you now and I deny you in the past. In Galicia, its self-government has allowed, together with all the governments of different ideology, an unprecedented social and economic advance, as well as the revitalization of its own Galician language and culture, of which we are proud all the people we see in plurality as a strength and not a weakness. I was saying, Your Honor, that you have not managed to give me a single argument that you can explain to me that the elections are not going to be and have not been free in the past, in the Basque Country, either. It is true that in the Basque Country there has been terrorist violence, I know very well, it is obvious, not only because I am from there, but also because I have lived it, but it is also true that terrorism has been defeated. And you know why he's been defeated? By the firmness of our democratic values, those I tell you to take shelter with them. [[Applauds]] Now you have the excuse perhaps of the summer, but open yourselves up to them, because that self-government that bothers you so much improves prosperity, well-being, and has built a framework of coexistence between different, because the joint work between autonomous and state institutions, which also seems to bother you, was key for the terrorists to be clear that with violence and intimidation they were not going to achieve anything. I would even dare to say: every day we voted in Euskadi, every day we decided as free people that we are and were, every election day in Euskadi, was a great defeat of terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, two thoughts. The first one, you spend the day trying to take over everything, as I've been telling you for the last few weeks. You come today not as a member of an ultra-right party, but as the voice of Spain. Mr Garriga, you are not all Spain, your party is not all Spain. Moreover, you have contributed nothing to this constitutional Spain that you want to appropriate, no progress, no policy, no rights, nothing, you have contributed nothing. Spain, unfortunately for you, is much bigger, more plural, more diverse and more tolerant than you think, and in Spain we all have room with our accents, cultures and ideas. So stop patrimonizing so many things. Secondly, I know perfectly well the concept of the extreme right that you represent of the democratic system in general and specifically of the elections and of the voters themselves. If you're doing well, the system works. If you lose or don't have a seat, you start feeding propaganda and conspiracy theories. We have just seen it, because they come to say - some of their members have done so in other interventions - that when they suffer an incident or aggression neither is condemned nor acted, and you have said it again today. Well, when it happens, it's condemned and acted. I'll tell you more. Your honor says that we leave your candidates in the Basque Country unprotected and unprotected, you ask for protection from the Secretariat of State, and on the same day that you send the request, as I have told you, you call a press conference to say that you are not protected and that you are going to be escorted yourself, as I have also recalled. What do you call that? I have it very clear: manipulation. Therefore, if you want to get seats in Galicia or in Euskadi - I am finishing - start by changing your attitude and raising other issues, which are many and have social interest. I'm done, President, and I'll do it the way I started. We will have free elections in Galicia and in Euskadi on 12 July, once again, and from the Ministry of the Interior we will support them in logistics and collaborate, as it cannot be otherwise, so that once again they are free and secure elections.Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u170	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u171	We then proceeded to discuss the motions resulting from urgent questioning that were not raised at yesterday's sitting. I would remind you that the vote will take place at tomorrow's sitting. Firstly, a motion for urgent questioning by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte, on the need for a special plan for the recovery of empty Spain and the demographic challenge, in line with the objectives of the recovery plan for Europe of the European Union. For the author group of the initiative, Mr Guitarte Gimeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u172	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, depopulation and responses to its effects are not an exclusive problem for the towns and small towns that suffer from it, they are a problem that affects us all and impoverishes us as a country. So far, policies that have been implemented for at least the past 60 years have failed. Cohesion and territorial balance in Spain have not given equal opportunities to all Spaniards, regardless of where they live. That is why today, seeing that the problem is reaching levels close to irreversibility, we are putting forward an urgent plan of measures that can be linked to the financing of the European Union in this next period of funding 2021-2027 and in the shortest period of the Next Generation EU from 2021 to 2024. What's the problem? The problem is completely diagnosed. For years, I would say that almost decades, analyzing the problem of depopulation, seeing its effects and proposing strategies, guidelines and even laws, as was the Sustainable Rural Development Act 2007. But, in the end, nothing has been applied and all our fellow citizens, all the inhabitants of these territories and many citizens of the whole country, who see that the situation of the problem is beginning to take over, feel with need the passage of words to the facts. That is why we propose this plan which we characterize as urgent and of immediate reactivation in the short term, while we can evolve in the state pact that all forces have been demanding both in the Chamber and in the electoral campaigns. We very much appreciate the set of amendments that have been tabled to this motion by most of the groups; amendments that all of them have gone to collaborate, to refine and to try to broaden the basis of action of this document, which, in essence, is not a motion that calls on the Government to act. We are grateful for that cooperation, we are grateful for all those amendments and we see some positive aspects in that they indicate that there is a unanimous practice or a practice shared with what needs to be done and how action should be taken. That state pact we've been claiming would be closer. The motion as a whole - on which it is very likely that a compromise amendment will finally be reached with most of the political forces, which we will put forward for the vote - differs from two aspects. An urgent action, which is the recovery plan, which includes immediate support measures, such as, for example, what we have called, to better define it, as the 100-30-30 programme, which is only the digitisation of the economy with the coverage of 100 megas throughout the territory and to the whole population, so that it is effectively possible to compete in telework, in medical assistance, in telemedicine, in teaching; that is, in all the means that precisely with the pandemic suffered these months have been put into evidence that facilitate telecommunications. For us it is a basic element because it is the one that will allow most of the other actions. This telecommunications plan should probably be addressed by the State; where private companies do not arrive, it should be done immediately, because if there is no immediate response, this technological difference further polarizes the differences between populated areas and those at risk of imminent depopulation. Mobility would also be envisaged to allow immediate or very easy access to health, education, dependency and security services, which is what we have called 30. It is an access that we quantify, by putting a figure to the proximity, in 30 minutes of travel from the place of residence to where these services are provided. Many of these services, such as education, health care or dependency, are the competence of the autonomous communities, but we have wanted to emphasize precisely this detail because this denotes and highlights that the solution to this problem is not only a state competence, but it concerns us all: central state, autonomous communities, local administration, regional administration wherever there is one, and it must be a coordinated issue. The other 30 of our programme is to allow these localities to break, definitively, with their physical isolation from the country's major corridors or transport lines and to have, in a proximity of about 30 kilometres, some high-capacity road that will allow to end this isolation, which most experts have shown are the issues that have produced or are at the origin of this difficulty for development or of this fall in underdevelopment that we have been mentioning. Within these reactivation plans, another substantial element in which we stress, both ourselves and all the amendments, is the provision of housing well under the regime of rehabilitation of the heritage that currently exists in the municipalities - architectural heritage in many cases of great value and in many cases guardian of part of our intangible cultural heritage -, rehabilitation of the housing or promotion of public housing, so that anyone who wants to move or keep living in these municipalities has this possibility of access to housing. Similarly, support for entrepreneurs through the creation of certain tax and social security treatments or aids which must be thoroughly studied in order to do so. Because, although we are most often hampered by tax or social security treatment issues here, we must remember that this is a mechanism used by other European countries, that the European Union has in many cases allowed and authorized it - even there are competition courts with favourable reports - and we believe that it is a very important tool to facilitate the settlement and support of entrepreneurs in these territories. Such support is often given, and has been given in other countries, through the creation of territorial development agencies that we also propose for here, but we particularly stress that the possibility of giving advantages and tax and benefit measures in social insurance contributions is really being studied, without rejecting it at first, because that very much supports entrepreneurs...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u173	Mr. Guitar, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u174	Yeah, I'm done. and supports the fabric of small and medium-sized industry. All our peoples, all our small and medium-sized cities hope that a message of unity will emerge from here today that the House is recognizing the existence of this problem and that it is ready to walk on short- and medium-term solutions. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u175	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Martínez Granados is speaking first of all by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u176	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said about emptied Spain; I myself have often used this term to speak of rural areas which have fewer and more real risk of disappearing, because they also have very poor access to public services, such as health or education. Indeed, Spain is not empty, but quite the contrary, it is full of talented people, an artistic-cultural heritage of incalculable value and a multitude of resources and opportunities. What there is is a forgotten Spain; forgotten by the People's Party and the Socialist Party, who only care about it in elections. Empty words in increasingly empty municipalities are the legacy of bipartisanship. In Citizens we were the first to warn of the problem of depopulation and propose solutions to return it to the front line of our policy, because no country can rule behind half of its land. The National Plan of Citizens against Depopulation envisages ambitious measures to attract talent, generate new opportunities, reverse the exodus from the rural world; that is, close the gaps that still exist between the rural world and the city. Since we don't act soon, I think it'll be too late. Mr Guitarte, I have to tell you that with this motion we have a rather ambitious plan, but it is true that the deadlines for the motion are possibly not achievable because we do not trust that the Government will be able to respond in those three months that it originally proposed. In fact, we believe that the plan is very ambitious, but, at the same level, also not very concrete. They detail, as if it were a list of the Magi, many measures, but not concrete. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments because we believe that such an important plan needs to be implemented from the outset. We also see that the initial motion mixed measures that could go within two different deadlines: very urgent ones, which, as I said in the motion, could be linked to the access of the funds of the European Union's Next Generation. That is why we need the Government to get involved in this and introduce specific measures in those reconstruction plans, as reflected in this motion. But there is also a medium- and long-term plan, and there we have to fully enter into specific measures to establish territories and expand the economic activity of those areas, improving, of course, access to health and education. I shall now talk about the amendments and the compromise that have finally been put to us. Our amendments seek to give opportunity to the talent of that area, but also to attract that talent that can come from outside and that can take advantage of the countless possibilities of living in the rural world. We also want to give value to the primary sector that is essential in those territories. We want to help him to improve, to grow, to become strong, to ensure generational relief, but we also want to give opportunity to other activities that come there to complement that rural world. If there is one thing that has taught us this crisis of the COVID-19 is that you can work almost anywhere, but we need, as you have said, access to the Internet. Both you and we believe that we are on the basis that we need much improvement for the rural world, better roads, more trains, to provide better public services, but, as you have said, Internet access is urgent and essential. If not, it will be very difficult, first, to stop the exodus and then attract new people, young people, entrepreneurs, new businesses; in short, people and companies that make the rural world grow, that their development is much more important. That would be a great first step. We are realistic and believe that it will not be possible to do everything in the time we want, but what we do need is for this government to show real interest and to stand by this compromise amendment that we have been proposed. We have proposed much more concrete measures that have not been fully collected, such as tax measures that reduce taxes for people who establish and create economies there; also entrepreneurship support measures, a flat rate that helps entrepreneurs to go there, who have a benefit. We have called for all these measures to be concrete. What we do see is that the compromise contains many of our amendments, although it is still somewhat general. We truly believe that this motion can be a start to work on that plan or on that pact in which we will be willing to work to defend the rural world. In Citizens one thing is clear: we fight for equality; we have done so to fight equality against nationalism, also for reasons of race, sex, religion, sexual orientation, but we must also do so for the equality of the territories, of the place of residence of the Spaniards. Wherever there is a cause for equality, it will be Citizens. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú, I have the floor, Mrs. Franco Carmona.Mrs.FRANCO CARMONA: Thank you, President. Professor and philosopher George Steiner said that what is not named does not exist. It is time for us to talk about the biggest territorial problem our country has: rural areas have not depopulated themselves, they have been emptied by central urban logics that have limited economic diversity and job creation. We are faced with one of the biggest structural problems our country has, which is Spain that has emptied. Only 10% of the population lives in 70% of the territory that is at risk of depopulation, where the poverty rate is higher than in urban areas and where, in addition, wages in municipalities specifically less than a thousand inhabitants is 64.5% lower, and this has a name: it is called inequality. It is urgent not to fall into the same mistakes of the past, as the right bank is proposing with the drop of practically all taxes, because, if you do not know, these taxes also finance the municipalities and can make social policies for their citizens. The Government, in this pandemic, has supported the self-governing, approved minimum living income and taken special measures that mainly affect rural areas, but these areas need to be economically rebuilt with measures such as the following. Firstly, to generate employment, ending unfair practices in the food chain, diversifying productive activity, promoting business creation in the services sector and in rural tourism, with administrative decentralization and extension of the broadband network. Secondly, green industrialization through the ecological transition that generates added value, but also generates renewable energy and housing rehabilitation. Thirdly, with public care services for older people, nurseries, health centres and education, but, I see, because these are mainly autonomous skills, and there are some people here who are going to breast-feed defending rural areas and who, however, do things like the following. [[It shows different press clippings]] Galicia, Government of Feijóo, People's Party: cuts in primary care, leaving around twenty medical chiefs in the Vigo area. Castilla y León, Government of the People's Party with Citizens: a shock plan to dismantle health care by suppressing health care centers in the town's offices. Murcia, government of the People's Party with Citizens, supported by the far right of VOX: approves, in the midst of the pandemic, with an unprecedented health crisis, budgets that involve cuts of 57 million in health. And Andalusia, my land, Government of the People's Party and Citizens, also supported by the far right of VOX, presided over by Moreno Bonilla: 452 million more for private health centers concerted. Every euro, every euro that is removed from public health and ends in private health, is a stab wound to the towns where private operators do not consider it profitable to put their health businesses! [[Applauds]] That is why, fourthly, universal public health. Fifthly, it is also promoting a road and rail transport network, based on a sustainability model, on which the Government is already working. Sixthly, eliminating invisibility and recognizing both paid and unpaid work, care and care for women in rural areas, and thereby real access to property and shared ownership, in addition, through the eradication of macho violence and with policies of equality and freedom for women and LGBTI people. Allow me to stop here for a moment, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, and Mrs Olona, for you to sign this, is your proposal really that women in the villages marry the better, stay at home raising as many children as possible? In what century have you stood up? [[Applauds]] Women get married when we love, when we consider, when we want and if we want. Women want to work outside the home and that care is shared equally; we will not have children for having tax incentives, as you propose, we will have them because we have economic security in our jobs and because we choose it freely. And this is the same for LGBTI people, with the same rights and the same freedom of decision as to whether to marry or not and whether to have children or not. Finally, grandparents and grandmothers need to enjoy their grandchildren and grandchildren with decent pensions and that their children can have a public sector that guarantees care.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u178	Mrs. Franco, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u179	I'm done, Madam President. The demographic challenge, ladies and gentlemen, is our country's greatest territorial challenge. As Mr Guitarte said, it is a matter of state. The Government is already working on this and we also need to do so here and in the autonomous communities with agreements. We will vote in favour because our will is that economic reconstruction prioritizes the recovery of rural areas. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Requejo Novoa has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u181	I want my first words to express my condolences to all the dead and victims of this health crisis, especially to remind me of the residences in rural areas that have been left to their fate by the Government. However, I want to share that today is my first day in this rostrum and my birthday. [[Applauds]] Abandoned Spain is one of our main problems and requires an urgent state pact. At VOX we agree on that. To combat depopulation, we need help from the European Union. NUTS are the administrative units that Europe uses and we have found that they do not guarantee equal, fair and homogeneous treatment of territories suffering from depopulation. It is a priority for Spain to promote a reform of NUTS 3 in order to have fairer territorial criteria. The first is therefore to urge the Government of Spain to negotiate with the European Union the definition of harmonised NUTS 3 territorial units which are not administrative, but take into account other parameters that allow all - I repeat, all - the unpopulated areas of Spain to enter the classification of sparsely populated areas. Thus, in Spain, all regions suffering from depopulation can benefit from Article 174 TFEU by accessing the funds provided for in the recovery plan for the European Union and the structural funds. In the previous period 2014-2020, all Spanish provinces were excluded. If this classification were to be maintained, for example, Zamora, a reference province of the demographic vacuum such as NUTS 3, would be left out, as it has a population density of 18 inhabitants per square kilometre, which exceeds 12.6 defining regional aid as an unpopulated area. Also excluded is the wide strip of the border area with Portugal of the provinces of Zamora, Salamanca, Cáceres and Badajoz, with 35 000 square kilometers and density of 7.5 inhabitants per square kilometer, comparable to the 2 of Lapland and the 9 of Teruel, which would also enter. Mr Guitarte, you have a relationship of complicity with this social-communist government, take it and get measures, but for all of Spain emptied, it is not limited to just three provinces. [[Applauds]] Mr. Garcés, VOX does talk about future and birth. Be aware of the demographic winter that Spain suffers, especially unpopulated Spain. It is a matter of common sense and urgency to activate a genuine plan to promote the birth rate and encourage families in rural areas. A realistic family support plan must include access to housing. We agree with a programme for the rehabilitation, promotion and purchase of housing. Inner Spain is not only empty, it crumbles. Who's going to want to do tourism between ruins? Families need security to thrive and settle down. Mrs. Franco, I wish you a lot of healthy, rolling children. [[Applauds]] I speak again of Zamora, my constituency, which serves as a paradigm, since last Sunday the newspaper El País defined it in an article as the epicenter of depopulation. This article collected the impressions of retired gregorio martinez, sixty-eight years old, who recalls that there were fifty-sixteenth century ago; now no one makes the swings or gymnasiums installed next to the church chirriar. And the melancholy of the elders Tirsus and Emilia remind them of that time of the embarrassed streets; they say that now there is asphalt, but, what happens, there is no one left. And it's just that, no matter how many infrastructure there is, if Spanish people aren't born and families settled, it's not going to do any good. A basic element is work. Companies should be encouraged to invest and establish themselves in unpopulated areas. And there is a need for special tax treatment for these regions in taxes, autonomous quotas and social security. We do not want subsidies, PER or permanent vital payments, we want to work and have a future. [[Applauds]] You say, Mr Guitarte, that agriculture and livestock are not able to maintain the social fabric. Let's look for new ways of working. Wide band of work, phenomenal, but we notice a certain contempt for the primary sector that we cannot understand. You cannot claim that the rural world remains without patterns identical to those of the cities. What they have to do is to dignify the rural world, promote profitability and modernise agricultural and livestock farms. We need to recompose the single market, enhance the image of a country that has broken down autonomous calamities and demand equal phytosanitary and social conditions for products that come from outside Europe by international macro-agreements. It is necessary to take care of the environment, to refurbish the old reforestations and to tackle new ones with biodiversity criteria that attract tourism of a rural nature, making it compatible with hunting, fishing and food products of quality and price. The field needs water. Watering is fundamental...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u182	Mr. Requejo, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u183	I'll be right out. Mr. Gimeno, ask the elm for pears and walnuts from the marshmallow, that you will become a nun when I am a French friar. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Requejo. And congratulations. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Navarro Lacoba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u185	Thank you, Madam President. The motion under discussion concerns depopulation. This is not a new problem, nor was the interest in the House going to make it modern. However, what should have been done by bringing the depopulation to the Congress of Deputies and requesting a state pact would have been to deal with it urgently; urgently this is how we should have done it this morning, but you, Mr. Guitarte, have succumbed to the amendment of the groups supporting the Government and have renounced the original deadlines for a state pact: you will have to explain to the platforms calling for it why the state pact is no longer urgent or why you have gone from claiming differentiated funding for areas suffering depopulation to complying with a mere feasibility study. I will tell you this: because the commitments, like convictions, need to be ironic, and you, Mr Guitarte, have claudicated before the government party with the same ease with which you lent your vote to a Socialcommunist Government, which is what we have today in Spain, a Socialcommunist Government with Mr Guitarte's vote. [[applause]] I hope that, at least, the will for agreement expressed this morning by the rest of the parliamentary forces and groups will be ironic. Go ahead with the will of the People's Party and President Casado's extended hand to a state pact for a vertebrate Spain and opportunities. The People's Party knows very well what depopulation is. We have 2852 mayors in municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants, many of them such as Castilfrio or Calanda, today sitting here on the bench of the Popular Parliamentary Group. They get up every morning to work for their municipalities, which have undoubtedly always been a priority on our political agenda. We implemented many of the measures that Mr Guitarte intended in his motion not only via 'BOE', but also with budgets in the past legislatures, when we had government responsibility. In the area of differentiated taxation, we introduced a reduction in the social security contribution of self-employed people to 50 euros for 24 months in the rural world. In our electoral programme is the commitment to abolish the tax on inheritance and inheritance and donations, as well as to reduce the share of corporation tax. Tax subsidies for the rehabilitation, rental and purchase of up to EUR 10 000 were pioneers with the People's Party Government. EUR 100 million was allocated for an employment programme in small municipalities. And in agriculture, ladies and gentlemen, there is no greater achievement than the record figure of EUR 45 billion negotiated by a People's Party government with Minister Tejerina at the head. They try not to spoil what works, and the common agricultural policy works if we do not stop bringing even one euro less from Europe in this area. In connectivity, there is no one who has had a more ambitious bet than with Plan 300×100 the government of Mariano Rajoy, with 525 million euros that we leave budgeted to guarantee Internet of 300 mega/second to 100 percent of the territory. But the government has left it in a drawer. And you, Mr. Guitarte, have even renounced the name of your Plan 100-30-30; you have simply been content to leave it in a mere statement in your explanatory statement, and it does not appear in the operative part of your motion this morning. Mr. Guitarte, have you noticed that we have a government that has no will for a pact, that its amendment reflected it because it only wanted a plan, its plan, and that in addition to that the government's agenda is not depopulation? Have you seen that in July the government has on the agenda to hold the bilateral negotiating table with the Independenceists in Catalonia? Is there anything that empties more Spain than wanting to break the unity of our country? [[Applauds]] Mr Guitarte, instead I propose that you urge the Government to sign the Teruel Investment Fund, more than 60 million that are still waiting on your land and that have not been received since you are here. You can sign it in Teruel, Madrid or Valencia if you want, but sign it, because you need your land. And the fourth vice president of the branch, debtor of the title to which the armchair owes, because she will be vice president, minister and even coordinator of the descalade but does not exercise? It has not introduced depopulation into the containment measures or measures of descalation of the hardest pandemic in Spain. The Government was putting EUR 16 billion ahead and has been unable to introduce the rural perspective of ageing and geographical dispersion for distribution. Do you know that the provinces that have suffered most from the pandemic are unpopulated areas: Soria, Segovia, Ciudad Real and Guadalajara? Did you know that? Mr Guitarte, we have amended your motion from optimism and in a constructive spirit, because we wanted all of us to correct this government, which is only right when it corrects, so that it could put depopulation back on its agenda, asking for a state pact. What I regret is that you have lowered your claim and this morning you do not accept the amendments as a whole. It accepts more amendments from the Socialist Party than from those who are genuinely concerned about the problems of the Spaniards. But I told him that Spain has to be vertebrate and a country of opportunity. We've been barking at her for years from a pessimistic stance...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u186	Mrs. Navarro, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u187	...and you keep insisting on it emptied. That's not how we're gonna sell the cow, like the joke guy said. They have not taken into account the demographic challenge amendments or those that highlight and as a backbone to provincial parliaments. They continue to insist on creating agencies and more offices. However, the vote of the People's Parliamentary Group will be affirmative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Navarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Fagundez Campo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u189	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in politics words weigh, words count, and with them we are able to understand reality and, above all, to change it. There is no empty Spain, what there is a Spain of people who need services, attention and opportunities. And if that Spain and those people had had all these opportunities, services and attentions, today we wouldn't be here talking about an empty Spain. But today I have not come to talk about depopulation maps, figures on demographic challenges or percentages on population loss in each of the provinces, which I think we all know very well. I want to talk today about a more important issue, which is that of social justice. Today I want to talk about equity, equality between territories, because it cannot be that our place of birth or the place of our residence becomes a discriminatory place when it comes to access to basic public services, to health, to education, to social services. Our rights cannot depend on the square kilometers, the number of neighbors that may be per square kilometer. The Spanish rural environment needs decent public services, adequate investment and quality employment. There is a big gap between the rural and urban worlds that now, during this pandemic, we have seen how it was magnified. And while all this is happening, the demands and protests of our neighbors are still on the street. I too come from Zamora, a province that has all the record rates in depopulation, and our Government, that of all Castile and León, what it has done has been to close the medical clinics throughout the pandemic, and they are still closed now, when citizens need it most. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to start reversing this unjust situation in which a large part of our country and millions of fellow citizens find themselves, we have the opportunity, because there are many wills that are joining our cause. The government has made territorial cohesion its flag, placing the demographic challenge at the top of the political level, and now Europe is proving that it is not just a sum of states or markets, but that it has a commitment to our values, and, thanks to this great European reconstruction plan, we will be able to have the necessary funding for investment to bridge this gap. Ladies and gentlemen, now is the time for unity, because this is a problem for all, not just the Spanish Government. This affects all political parties, the autonomous communities, and we must be able to create a great plan for the reconstruction of our country that will carry out all measures to reduce this gap. We divide them into three main axes: firstly, for the maintenance of public services in the territory: our schools, our offices, the defence, security facilities, in short, the public services - I insist - that cohesive and vertify our territory, and through a great plan of digitisation that we will set in motion to give that coverage to the 100 percent of the territory that allows us to provide a better service of them; secondly, through a plan of economic reconstruction and employment for these unpopulated territories, betting on the local industry, installing the green industry in those territories, with a local trade that is able to distribute our products, those of the primary sector, especially those of our farmers and farmers, and, of course, with the commitment of rural tourism, quality tourism, sustainable tourism and, especially, safe at these moments of pandemic; and finally, changing the model of this country, because it cannot be that the only option of the future of our young people in the depopulated world is to migrate to the great cities without a mass loss of quality. Through telework, which has come to stay, we have to give them the opportunity, and that they can undertake in their territory, that they can establish, fix population and create wealth, stay in the land that has seen them born. Moreover, with a large employment plan, and above all with a housing construction plan and a rental plan that we are going to launch, we will be able to give an opportunity to those generations who left their land all these decades ago, so that they can return to the territory to which they so long to return. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. During these weeks we've heard a lot about how we can't get out of the crisis by leaving no one behind. Now is the time to start doing it. This demands unity, commitment and responsibility on the part of all of us, because Spain is not conceived without all these territories that are unpopulated. These unpopulated territories are waiting for a great response from this House today, and I want to tell you, on behalf of the Socialist Group, that you can count on us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u190	Thank you very much, Mr Fagundez, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u191	Thank you, Madam President. I will intervene very briefly to determine the position of the Basque Group. Undoubtedly, Teruel's motion is a description of a serious and real problem, of a regrettable situation, a limit situation that many of the Spanish state's territories are experiencing. This proposal makes a global analysis, and we too should do so, of why we have come to this. There is little time to recover what has already been lost: the emptying of the land in the countryside, the lack of birth, the lack of resources to deal with it. All of this makes us understand and share Mr Guitar's proposal both in terms of the urgent measures needed to combat the hemorrhage and also in terms of the long-term measures, which have to make us rethink what we mean by the rural world, what we mean by the demographic challenge and what we mean, after all, by the stability of the territory. Asturian expert Jaime Izquierdo gave us some ideas on the subject, interesting indeed, and some of us have already been applying them in Euskadi, as he recalled. The rural world cannot be a small city, it is different; the rural is what characterizes it and is its strength. We have to make a new model of the rural world. The return to the countryside cannot be approached from that romantic perspective that some understand it means to be, put three lettuces and come back. We must rethink what we want to do so that the rural world is truly the new place where we can live, where we can develop our future. It is a shame, without a doubt, that we have to get to this situation. But, regardless of everything else, I wonder where the competent institutions have been so far for this to have happened, says quite little in favour of them. Although they talked about the unity of Spain and all these things, those who defended the unity of Spain so much are the ones who with their policies have emptied it, making a kind of centrifugal force towards the metropolis, completely forgetting what the other territories needed, during Francoism but also during democracy. And there is no doubt that European funds and rural development policy have been the responsibility of the autonomous communities. I wonder what some of them have invested in, what some of the autonomous communities have prioritized when they have had those funds in their hands. We all have the responsibility, but some have also had the capacity to decide how they were doing their policy in support of rural development. In Euskadi we all have a connection with the rural world, the largest manager of the largest company and the last legendakari, we all come from it, and that has never made us break that link, a link that, in addition to being emotional, has also become political and institutional, the link of responsibility. We did not want to leave the rural world. I know that the characteristics are different, that the dimensions of the territory are different, but what really differs is the assumption of responsibilities and the commitment to rural development that some of us have made, and that the rulers of other territories, to the misfortune of their inhabitants, have not done. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that in Euskadi we were pioneers with the Rural Development Act in important aspects that brought about the stabilization of the population, the availability of resources, social services, so that it was fixed and there was economic development. For example, with the Statute of Euskadi Women Farmers, it became the first autonomous community to regulate the female employment situation, which is very important when it comes to establishing a population in the rural world. Therefore, Mr Guitarte - I have no more time - I want to say that we support, we sympathize with your needs and your demands. Let us hope that this is not wet paper and that the bet is truly on what continues to unite us with the earth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u192	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs García.For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u193	Thank you, President. Mr Guitarte, I hope that your motion will be adopted by a very large majority, I hope that it will be unanimously adopted by the whole House. In fact, we have heard very critical speeches, to end by saying that they will vote in favour, which I am no longer surprised at this stage in this Chamber. However, I am very afraid that, even if the motion is adopted by a very large majority, perhaps unanimously, the problem will remain; it will remain, first of all, because we all know that the motions adopted here are not always effective then in terms of their implementation - yesterday on some other issue was also highlighted -; it will remain because it is a general problem, a global problem, which I fear will go further. And it is not a specific problem of Spain; in my country, Catalonia, it also happens, the rural area is also depopulation. I suppose you know the initiative - if not, my partner Concep Cañadell will facilitate it - which has been developed since the Catalan Association of Municipalities and the Association of Rural Initiatives of Catalonia. And I assume that you, who are an architect and therefore have urban skills, also know the comprehensive plan of measures that the French Government has promoted; more than two hundred measures in all areas, which are being implemented. It is therefore a global problem, which I fear will continue. And I am also afraid that in the case of Spain even more seriously because of the centralist conception of the state. In Spain everything passes through Madrid. We have seen it, for example, with radial AVEs that go from Madrid everywhere, so that to go from Barcelona to Valencia we do not have a direct high-speed route and sometimes it is faster to pass through Madrid for anything. This accent placed by the Spanish State and all its structures for the strengthening of Madrid is also what has led to the emptying and impoverishment of all rural areas, and this has very serious consequences; the pandemic has allowed us to see it. And I hope it's a chip change, a change in mentality, because the pandemic has allowed us to see, first, that we live much better in small places than in large metropolises, and, second, that we need, yes or yes, that our first sector, the agricultural sector and the livestock sector, is powerful, because that's where our livelihood and food viability go. We also need, for demographic and environmental purposes, to avoid these macroconcentrations of large conurbations. I therefore hope that the motion will be adopted and adopted unanimously. But, I insist, I am very afraid that this will not be the end of the problem and, therefore, I hope that it will lead to a change of mindset and that we will all take this problem seriously, in which, as I said, in the medium term the future, the demographic, environmental and food future, in many areas, goes hand in hand. And I hope, Madam President, that in the near future there will be many Teruels, because I fear that this problem of centrality also affects the structures of political parties. Of course, all the structural problems of the territory are being supported by the local and regional administrations, but I am very afraid that since the conception of state budgets, when they govern one another and when they govern the other, also since the design of policies, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament in rural areas do not have the weight they should have. I wish Teruel's example existed and many deputies, many voters like you, groups of voters from various unpopulated provinces of Spain followed this model. We will therefore support the motion. I hope that it will be adopted unanimously. But, I hope, above all, this will make us all reflect and there will be a change of model in this respect. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u194	Thank you, Mr. Alonso-Cuevillas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u195	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to go ahead with this because we will vote in favour of the initiative. We really fully share all the points that are incorporated in your proposal. However, in any case, it must be said that it does not cease to be a letter to the Kings and that, therefore, there must be a real will - not only to make a document - to work on an aspect as simple and as broad as depopulation. It is the chronic situation, as has already been mentioned - and it is important to do so - of a model of territorial organization. Depopulation is the result of a model for decades and centuries of a conception of territory, of power over territory. And, although the process of depopulation is the result of the interaction of many causes, it is evident that it responds, above all, to the great socio-economic inequalities that are generated between different territories. It is essential to take this into account. When we talk about social inequalities, the first thing that always comes to our head is the grave example of social discrimination or even collective circumstances of extreme vulnerability. It is true that these cases call for social justice and demonstrate the violation of the most basic principles of equality, but rarely, very rarely do we consider imbalances of territorial origin as limiting factors and inequality. This is important to keep in mind. I'll give you an example. Do you really believe that a young woman who lives in a micro-people - a micro-people is a population, a municipality of less than 500 inhabitants - has the same opportunities, for example, to create a company that if she did it in a city? Isn't that right? Why? Because, unfortunately, even today, the territorial imbalance deepens the lack of opportunities and social inequalities. That is the basic principle I wanted to address. It is a fact not only of territorial inequalities but of social inequalities and lack of opportunities. The depopulation of the rural world is a global phenomenon that affects in a very special way certain areas of the Spanish State, especially those considered as rural. The regional imbalance resulting from this depopulation not only generates and increases enormous economic inequalities between territories but also favours a process of periferization and exclusion of important layers or segments of the population, which are often displaced from decision-making centres and abandoned by the administrations because of their inability to ensure access to services as basic as health, education or mobility. This process of interregional imbalance creates great discomfort in rural society, as, for example, the agricultural sector has been expressing, which sees its development expectations fading day by day. The objective sense of exclusion and abandonment of an important part of rural society reinforces, therefore, and it is important to bear in mind, the story of confrontation between two models, the urban model and the rural model - a great trap that of confrontation of two models -. Unfortunately, this story of confrontation between an urban society, civilized, adalid of progress, and another rural, archaic and traditional, was born or consolidated in the 19th century, with the Illustration, and from a very urban-centered and distorted perception of the rural environment. The most serious thing is that this has been a mental framework that has so far justified rural development policies, and a mental conception of a model of confrontation between the rural and the urban world are born many of the policies that are being implemented in the rural environment. Fortunately, the efficiency of the neoliberal model of unlimited growth today is questioned for being clearly unsustainable. The new challenges pose new models of sustainable development, respectful of the environment, and this is precisely where the rural environment plays a new role. The rural environment plays a key role in key strategic sectors that represent new development opportunities. For example, COVID has seen the importance of the primary sector as a strategic sector, as well as the key role of the rural environment in preventing and managing the effects of climate change, such as floods or fires, and the key role of the rural environment in new environmental and diversity challenges, such as water management, the green economy or even the energy transition model, renewable energy, many of which are located in rural areas. The main objective of rural development policies must be the fixing of the population in the territory. In that regard, our group considers three axes to be essential. On the one hand, the central role of women and young people, who are the ones who really guarantee generational relief and demographic regeneration. On the other hand, improving connectivity; improving infrastructure in terms of improving mobility and public transport ratios. And the break in the digital divide, which mainly affects micro-people, with the deployment of broadband networks. There is also the issue of taxation, differentiated as an incentive. Finally, given the diversity and complexity of these rural areas...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u196	Mr. Eritja, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u197	... any strategic proposal - term - or planning for population regeneration passes through a governance model that takes into account two premises. On the one hand, it requires a cross-cutting and comprehensive management in all its complexity, involving all those administrations that have competences. On the other hand, the application of the principle of subsidiarity. It must be the same territories and their agents that draw up the strategic plans based on the knowledge of the societies concerned. This is essential in order to articulate a comprehensive global strategy in order to work on policies on the rural environment. I'm done. Please note that in order to end empty Spain we should reverse the model of radial Spain. That's fundamental. It is a mental conception that we need to change in order to save this rural world, this emptied Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u198	Thank you, Mr. Eritja. Mr Guitarte, do you accept any of the amendments tabled or are working on a transactional?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u199	We're trying to get a transactional that will support almost everyone. It would be ideal, unless someone expressed their willingness to keep theirs.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. We await in the Bureau the writing of the transactional. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] - of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, in order for the Minister of the Interior to explain the decisions taken within the framework of the Civil Guard. [[File number. 173/000014]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u201	We continue with the motion following urgent questioning of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, so that the Minister of the Interior can explain the decisions taken within the Civil Guard. Mrs Beltrán Villalba has the floor for the initiative's group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u202	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to point out that the record of a good judge does not justify the betrayals of a bad minister. We are here to say that it is enough, to demand that dignity return to the Ministry of the Interior, a key institution in safeguarding the law and defending the just. Legality and justice are concepts that Minister Fernando Grande-Marlaska knows perfectly, which further exacerbates the harsh events in which he has been involved since he occupied the ministerial chair. There was a time when Judge Grande-Marlaska was defending exactly the opposite of what he is defending today as a minister. In 2006, ETA was tipped off that a police raid was going to take place at a bar in Irun against the terrorist extortion plot. That snitch threw an investigation on the ground by Judge Marlaska at the National Court; he threw it on the ground at a time when the judge demanded that national police and civilian guards inform him directly and that they did not have the Government aware of what was going on in the courts. That year, the Socialist and Great Marlaska Party ruled in Spain, defending the justice and freedom of those who aspired to corrupt what he was willing to protect, even at the risk of being shot in the back of the head. Today the story is another, it has changed the toga for the suit, and its principles for those of an unscrupulous president who would not hesitate to express to him until the last drop of dignity to remain installed in La Moncloa one more day. The gout that has filled the glass of the minister's disloyalty has been the cessation of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos, a public servant to whom Grande-Marlaska taught the door of departure when the colonel said no; when the colonel, in the obligatory performance of his duty, refused to disobey a judge to please a politician. What happened later is already a living history of Spain; the story of a cornered minister who lied in a parliamentary seat; the story of a minister whose word was amended by an official document that exposed his false explanations. The colonel was owed to the judge who demanded loyalty; the Minister of the Interior was owed to his country. The colonel fulfilled; the minister did not. The colonel will be remembered as an incorruptible man by associates and detractors; the minister will be forgotten by millions of Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Millions of Spaniards saw in it an example of courage, commitment and integrity; millions of Spaniards who are frozen in our blood watching him share Government with President Sánchez who, like Judas, denied three times that he would bargain with Bildu, and did so; he did so in Navarre, he did so in the Basque Country and he did so in this House, allowing those who exalt killers of workers and entrepreneurs to condition the economy of a wounded country. Ladies and gentlemen, today it is not just a Member of the People's Party who speaks here; it is a free Spanish woman who is sick of being lied to in her face, tired of being denigrated by the institutions and tired of being mistreated and cornered by public servants, who are able to endure anything but forcing them to fail in their duty. We do not only demand the reprobation and cessation of a minister who missed his word and left a colonel at the foot of the horses; we demand the reprobation and cessation of a minister who rides to the back of the Socialist Party and despises the separation of powers. Great-Marlaska's greatest betrayal has been to act ill knowingly and consider himself a Sanchez soldier who must obey without asking, never doubt and always justify the unjustifiable, fall whoever falls. And those who should not fall, while the Ministry of the Interior becomes a machine of assignment to the nationalists, those Basque nationalists who broke to applaud when the minister ceased Colonel Sánchez Corbí, a referent within the Civil Guard; that is Catalan nationalists who broke to applaud when the minister ceased Colonel Pérez de los Cobos. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has served men of honor on a platter for the enjoyment and enjoyment of the independenceists. The minister is guilty of dismissing important charges for failing to bow to his illegal and sectarian demands; he is guilty of endangering the reputation and honour of the State Security Forces and Corpses; and he is guilty of having generated the greatest crisis in the civil guard dome in decades. The minister has given democracy lessons to the People's Party as he sits next to a vice president whom Arnaldo Otegi calls comrade; while he sits next to a vice president who treats people convicted of terrorism as political prisoners; while he sits next to a socialist bench that muzzles when he hears the name of Felipe González, the same bench that has the shame of blaming the People's Party for its pacts with Bildu Batasuna. What Minister of the Interior closes his fist and hardens his gesture to Democrats as he opens his hand and smiles at radicals? I'm telling you, Fernando Grande-Marlaska. His credentials of the judge precede him, but they are not enough to cover the shame of a politician who changed the toga for the suit at the same time as his reputation for a seat on the Council of Ministers. Our Constitution provides that the judicial police are under the control of the judges, the courts and the prosecutor's office. With the Constitution in hand and with the heart in the other, today I not only defend the reprobation of Grande-Marlaska but again demand its immediate cessation for its attitude contrary to right and anti-democratic. And it hurts, it hurts to see such a man who risked his life to defend justice, who renounced his personal freedom to guarantee the freedom of the most vulnerable, the freedom of people...... the freedom of people who for years kissed their children every day as if they were not going to see them anymore, people who swollen their knees on the ground before getting into a car and who prayed with their trembling legs before tearing it off. [[The honourable Member is excited and cannot continue to speak.-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today the Minister of the Interior has not had the courage to stay. Mr. Marlaska, wherever you are, remember: We were joined by a cause, now we are separated by a betrayal. Be free and consistent, dignify politics, dignify your government and leave. Go on behalf of the civilian guards and national police who are excited every day when they put on the uniform; go on behalf of those who were willing to put their breasts between you and a bullet; go on behalf of those who, even today, would give their lives to protect you from any threat, even knowing that you would sell them for thirty coins of silver. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u203	Thank you, Mrs Beltrán. In defence of the amendments put forward, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor by the VOX Group. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u204	Minister, where are you, I don't see you? Don't hide, face it. Face the Spanish, face the National Police, face the Civil Guard. You have been absolutely portrayed for history with the cessation of the Colonel of the Perez de los Cobos Civil Guard. You no longer answer anything, you face circumstance, smile every time you are reminded of the miseries you are passing on to the Ministry of the Interior and with it to the Government of Spain. You, Minister, wherever you are - because I know you are going to listen to it - do not want to take on any responsibility, as you did not want to take on the real and fair equality that our policemen and our civilian guards deserved, trying to buy them with a smokescreen to see if they were silent and to see if you were covering up Colonel Pérez de los Cobos' unworthy cessation. You have been completely wrong because you have gone to cease a man who represents two fundamental questions: respect for constitutional loyalty, as you have shown as head of Copernicus operation, facing the coups, coups! because he who strikes a coup d'état is a couptista, who attacks the Constitution is a couptista, who wants to end the parliamentary monarchy and replace the legitimate government of Spain is a couptista, in Catalonia and China. [[Applauds]] But, of course, Minister, you are not going to take into account the services you have provided in trying to rebuild, in trying to restore order to the streets of Catalonia. And he was completely wrong because he has stopped a man who also symbolizes the honor in defending the freedom and sovereignty of all Spaniards, in his tireless struggle against the terrorist and murderous ETA gang, and that also bothers him. You have made a mistake, and that is why we have tabled an amendment calling for the reinstatement of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos. We know that he is not going to do it, we know that we know that he is not going to resign either, but we will throw the Spaniards out by the democratic force of the ballot box, don't worry. Mr Marlaska, today you have had the absolute defiance of saying that it is VOX that suggests that politics cannot be made normally. Is this the new normality that awaits us? Is this what the gentlemen of the government understand by normality? Is this what the members of the government understand by normality, the puppies of the ETA bilduitarras, the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque nut party, and the coups of the Republican Left and the PDECAT? Is this what you mean by normality? Because her normality I had to listen to this weekend: Ortega, to the gutters; Ortega, murderer; sons of bitches, get out of here. Is that what you understand, Minister, by doing politics normally? Probably coincides with his government partners when they said - that president of the PNV for fifteen years, remember? Arzalluz - look at what phrase: Some shake the tree, but without breaking it, so that the nuts fall, and others pick them up for distribution. To shake the tree was to hit a shot in the back of the neck or put a lapa bomb. That is called benefiting from terrorism. Another phrase for history: We nationalists are neither loyal to the Constitution nor will we be, it is not our Constitution. So what the hell are you doing here, at the headquarters of national sovereignty? Then why do they lie when they say they promise the Constitution? Why do they use state budgets? You are a fifth column within democracy, you and all those who seek to end the Constitution, freedom and democracy. We do not understand the vast majority of Spaniards what they do in the seat of national sovereignty who do not believe in the Constitution, who want to put an end to democratic principles. Another of the pearls: We don't think it's good for Euskal Herria that ETA be defeated. He said so in 1992 and ETA continued to murder. I'm done, Madam President. Another of the pearls: ETA prisoners are not criminals because they do not kill to enrich themselves or to benefit themselves but by a political ideal. You are miserable and, Mr Marlaska, these are your partners in government. What a shame for a Spanish government! What a shame for this House! Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u205	Thank you, Mr. Ortega. Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u206	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The truth is that it is difficult to talk in the House about a specific person without being present in the Chamber. I understand that you will have many occupations, but I have to tell you that I at least find it difficult to talk about someone who is not present. It must be said that Mr Marlaska is also wishing to be repudiated, because we already know that of'reproved minister, confirmed minister'. In any case, apart from the reasons that have existed these days to request the cessation of Minister Marlaska, we believe that when they leave here - the spokespersons of Euskal Herria Bildu will then come out - and they speak of political prisoners and say that the National Police and the Civil Guard torture, the Minister of the Interior of Spain has to ask for the word and say that the Basque political prisoners are murderers, torturers, etc., and that the National Police and the Civil Guard do not torture but fulfil their obligation to defend the freedoms of all Spaniards. That is what a Minister of the Interior has to say who defends Spain, who defends his country, who defends the forces and bodies of State security and defends the rule of law. [[Applauds]] It draws our attention to the fact that this is not done. In addition, she has government colleagues who do so, because Minister Robles, when it comes to the military, calls for the word and safeguards the honour of the military themselves. He therefore has examples in the Government itself. It also seems to us that the Minister of the Interior, when the most radical of the left abertzale asks Bildu or Bildu says that he can use contacts in Madrid to negotiate under the table and in the days we see that the greatest assassins of the terrorist band ETA are being visited with the host Minister of the Interior, will have to give some explanation about that. And if you can't give explanations, you will have to cease in office, because it can't be that all the Spaniards are at home confined and while you are visiting the prisoners of ETA with the approval of the Minister of the Interior. He therefore does not deserve to remain a minister for those reasons too. I do not know if we are going to withdraw the word, but we will also say that yesterday something happened that I think went unnoticed for many, but not for me, of course. When the father of an ETA assassin comes out and tells it here, in this rostrum, then the spokesman of Podemos comes out to ask the president and the Bureau not to let us talk about ETA, which is good enough, that of ETA there is no need to talk. Well, it doesn't say ETA, it says terrorist gang, like I don't know what, it's worth talking about. But how is it worth talking about? I mean, can't we just come here and say what we think? But do they think they're in Venezuela or what? We'll say what we want here. [[Applauds]] I thought I was going to say that I understood the position of that person, who is the father of an ETA assassin, and not only doesn't, but above it says: shut up with that speech. Man, please...! Therefore, this minister must cease, this minister cannot follow a minute longer in office. We need someone to put things in place as to what they are in prison, why they are in jail and, of course, what the Civil Guard and the National Police are and all the Spanish police who defend the whole of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, from the VOX Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u207	Thank you very much, Mr García Adanero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Group of Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u208	Mr Marlaska, now Minister of the Interior and former judge of the National High Court, deserves the greatest, the most enormous, the most forceful of the reprobations, but not for the reasons that the motion of the People's Party claims, but precisely for what is hidden in that motion. Grande-Marlaska deserves the most colossal of the reprobations, and more, much more than because of what he did, precisely because of what he did not do to dozens of Basque detainees who passed before him and in whom he saw no sign of the tortures reported to him. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a chain of collusion that allows torture and there is no torture without collusion of judges. So much so that European justice has already failed. From 2004 until today, the European Court of Human Rights has condemned the Spanish State on nine occasions for failing to investigate the torture of Basque detainees. Of these nine European judgments, six had Grande-Marlaska as the investigating judge at the National High Court. We will not play the game right in this initiative, but let it be clear that Minister Marlaska does not have or will have the support of Euskal Herria Bildu because we have memory. Mrs. Beltrán, I don't think you heard anything, absolutely anything I said yesterday. Most of Basque society wants to make progress in coexistence and peace. [[Rumors]] It's clear you don't. We believe that all the damage caused must be recognized and that all the victims are owed truth, justice and reparation, to all, and it has become clear that you are not. It is a pity; however, Basque society will move forward. It will advance and it will do so despite you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cambronero Piqueras has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u210	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I was going to greet the minister, but he's not here. Serve my first words, as always as I go up to this atrium, to accompany thousands of families who have lost a loved one during this tremendous crisis. We will not rest - I also say - until we know how many there are. Today I say to my families, to the Civil Guard and to the National Police, my own: Rest in peace, comrades fallen in service. We are debating here a motion following an urgent inquiry by the People's Party to the Minister of the Interior, Grand-Marlaska, for the decisions taken within the Civil Guard and the reprobation of the Minister of the Interior, and it is not, is not. He spoke to an empty chair materially and above all morally.Sirs, I recently served under the orders of the Ministry of the Interior and, far from it, as I was left, this ministry had many expectations in this famous magistrate of the National High Court. Well, the magistrate doesn't even have his fists left. Today Mr Marlaska has become on his own merits the first vice president of Sánchez's indimissibles. As a national police officer, I think it is unworthy for a political leader to defend positions of trust and, above all, distrust of leaders who have provided an unpayable service to Spain for decades. Well, Mr. Grande-Marlaska has served, but he is infinitely below the service provided by the Civil Guard. Tell me who's stopping you and I'll tell you who you are. To be ceased by this minister is precisely the greatest sign of independence. They have turned the digital designation and the free designation posts into the real cancer of both the Civil Guard and the National Police. I've suffered it myself. Where is the merit and capacity? This minister is chronifying the political use of two police forces that are far above politics; national police officers who have been the first and last line of defense in the violent coup d'état in Catalonia. Our democracy suffers and they protect our cities, at risk also for their lives; they protect our borders. Civilian guards also keep our safety on our shores, in our villages, everywhere. And both bodies have played their lives during this health crisis, during this pandemic, and have left behind so many, too many companions; fallen companions - put it on fire - in an act of service. The cessation of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos; Inspector Nieto of the National Police, dedicated to work-risk tasks, and the successive resignations and cessations that have continued do nothing but show an authoritarian drift with those who have only done what they swore: protect, enforce and enforce the law. Minister Marlaska sees as renewal what is a pure political purge. The ministry is now also issuing ten public servants, five national police officers and five civilian guards, for claiming their right to equal pay; a right that both the United We can and the Socialist Party have denied up to three times in this House. I'll tell the expedients they're not going to be alone, and not just that. Interior orders the cloning of computers of those civilian guards who, acting as Judicial Police - yes, yes, as Judicial Police - intervene in many criminal instructions. And it is curious that the Minister of the Interior does so, knowing very well what a criminal investigation is, also that of 8-M. It's the most serious attack on judicial independence I've ever witnessed in my professional career. They also abandon prison officials; they sideline opponents, unjustly separated from their opposition, and could go on to infinity. Today in this House there are those who enjoy seeing their purge, those who come up to this rostrum to insult those who protect us - they have been doing it two days in a row - those who call torturers those who maintain security, those who see as an achievement the disappearance of the Civil Traffic Guard, of Navarre. In short, for the words I am saying today in this atrium not so far back in time I would have had to wear an escort and look at the bottom of my vehicle every day, as I was taught in Ávila. And I'm going to talk about ETA, yes, Mr. Uriarte, about Podemos, of course I'm going to talk about ETA. Of course we are going to talk about ETA and for a very simple reason, for something that you quote a lot but that you practically do not practice: for memory, for justice and for reparation. Minister Marlaska has allowed the visit to ages of his ideological cousins, from Bildu, who have just expressed themselves, during the confinement. What's the reward? Prizes for stature and punishments to the Civil Guard? It's unworthy, especially for magistrate Marlaska. That is why I say, with the utmost respect and conviction, to the minister who has a great deal left to address these men and women, to my colleagues, to those who go out every day to protect us. And that's why we're going to support his reprobation. By the way, remind the headmistress to show up, we miss her. I conclude by saying something that I am already advancing to you that is not going to be the last time I say it in this House, and especially because it annoys many: Long live the Civil Guard! Long live the National Police! And live Spain! Minister - even if he is not - resign; he no longer has another way out. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u211	Thank you, Mr. Cambronero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u212	Thank you very much, Madam President. Forgive me for insisting, but I will remember once again the film Apocalypse Now and Robert Duvall: I love the smell of napalm that spreads the right in this House in the mornings, and I love it because, the more braman, the more evident is his impotence, the more evident is his sterile arithmetic. Mr Marlaska should be reprimanded, but it is for not ceasing this colonel before that he allowed his agents to make a report that is laughter: partial, arbitrary, fraudulent, with false data, manipulating and distorting the witnesses' answers. A report that violates the dignity of the Civil Guard. Therefore, a command that allows subordinates to do this is a command that deserves one and a thousand times to be ceased; it does not deserve to be a second more in command of these people. Cesaring a colonel is not an attack on the honor of the Civil Guard; the honor of the Civil Guard is not safeguarded by the roars of this right; the honor of the Civil Guard is safeguarded by removing these black chickpeas who perpetrate false reports and those who allow them to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u213	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u214	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin with the motion, Mr Ortega - which I see is not here at the moment - I regret if anyone has wanted to send you to the courts, I condemn it, I do not subscribe, because where I would send you is not to the courts, but back to the Faculty of Law to review some criminal law, some procedural law, some constitutional law, some political law, and thus stop talking about coup d'état. Despite his unnecessary and useless intervention in the trial against the trial, maintaining that there was a rebellion there and, therefore, a coup d'état - in coincidence with the prosecution - I would like to remind him where he is - in case he listens to me, that I know he will listen to me - that the sentence was sedition, which is a crime against public order. Therefore, he continues to speak of beatings and this satisfies, encourages and exalts his followers, but he knows that all those who try to listen to him with a minimum of legal rigour, we suffer shame from others when he speaks again of coup d'état. With regard to the motion, we do not lack grounds to reprimand Minister Marlaska - some have already been said here - because of the reprobations in the form of convictions against the Spanish State when Marlaska was the investigating judge, which happened on six occasions, for not investigating torture; also because of his lack of force preventing police abuses in operations Copernicus, Judas and Icarus, with the use of rubber balls, with a disproportionate use of force, and as we have seen before it was against the Basques, then it came against the Catalans, but finally it has spread against the whole world. During the pandemic, we have unfortunately seen too many episodes of police violence against people who may have broken the confines, but who did not deserve a brutality of police action such as that we have seen on numerous occasions, without the minister of the branch deigning to go out forcefully to censor those police abuses. Of course, we are not going to censure or reprimand Minister Marlaska for ceasing Colonel Pérez de los Cobos. In any case, we would censure him for not having stopped it before, knowing that he stood on the side of the 23-F thugs, knowing that various charges have appeared for torture, although then for statute of limitations in some cases, and for lack of evidence in others, they have not reached convictions. We believe that it was not the profile to maintain a police command in a state that intends to be erected, named and exercised as democratic and legal. We are therefore going to abstain on your motion because, while we are in favour of blaming Minister Marlaska, in no case for the reasons you bring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u215	Thank you, Mr. Alonso-Cuevillas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u216	I'd like to start by reporting that when I came down I heard they called me a puppy. Is that really all you can call me? Maybe you should ask him, and then, when you want to defend young people, defend them well and not talk about puppies, please. [[Applauds]] Having said that, I am going to the point. It really seems to us that they are very creative because it will be that there are no issues to criticize Marlaska before being a minister and during as to reproach him for having ceased Perez of the Cobos. For something that does good even if I'm late, do you really want to blame him for that? Let's face it, honestly, if we're talking about whether we should blame him, it's clear that we should; because of Perez de los Cobos, well, maybe it wouldn't be right. Don't you worry that I wouldn't prevent you from investigating cases of torture? Earlier, Bildu's partner said, there were convictions by the European Court of Human Rights for not having investigated torture in which he was an investigating judge. Doesn't it worry you that he brought the collective burning of the king's photos to trial in 2007? In fact, the Strasbourg Court ended up condemning the Spanish State for this, arguing that it was a matter of freedom of expression. Aren't you worried that it would open the oral judgment of the cartoonists Manel Fontdevila and Guillermo Torres, cartoonists of the satirical magazine El Thursday for putting on the cover a caricature of the then princes Felipe and Leticia having sex? They accused them of insulting the Crown Prince, violating freedom of the press. And once he has been a minister, aren't you concerned that he didn't explain what the ministry did when the findings of the Commission of Inquiry into State Cloaks, which claimed that the Ministry of the Interior had been used for partisan purposes, were known? Aren't you worried that you haven't repealed the gag law? Aren't you worried that you didn't investigate the October 1st police operation, and that you also decorated the October 1st police officers for beating us up, when we just wanted to vote? Aren't you worried that I'd send 1,500 cops to Catalonia to suppress mobilization by sentence? They were going to use rubber balls in a territory - and I will repeat it again - where it is forbidden to use rubber balls. Aren't you concerned that he pushed Operation Judas where he falsely accused, and has thus been proved, activists of the terrorist CDRs in an attempt to demobilize us? Don't you worry that he simulates good intentions by ceasing Manuel Sánchez Corbí, convicted of torture, but then granting him the silver cross? It is clear that this does not concern you; we already know that for you human rights are simply a concept you use at international level from time to time to show that they equally guaranteed them when they were in government, when we all know that, with both PP and PSOE, the Ministry of the Interior is the pillar to keep the regime tied and well bound. And a warning for the PSOE. We have warned them - we have been warning them - that repression reaches them all. Don't make the monster grow any more, they have already done enough, because after independenceists, anti-fascists, feminists, trade unionists, platforms for access to housing, etc., etc., etc., it will even persecute you. And finally, to the proposers of the PP, the Congress reprobated you nothing more or less than two ministers of the Interior: Fernández Díaz and Zoido. Their answer: to reward the former with a Commission presidency, by the way, one of them for being certified as using the Ministry of the Interior for partisan purposes. The same system that PSOE took advantage of and fed and which has now been turned against them. Good for the Catalan countries.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Rosique. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u218	Thank you, Madam President. First, a fraternal embrace to all those in our country and in the world who have been affected by the COVID pandemic, which remains a challenge for the whole of humanity, which once again proves to us that we are vulnerable, that we are interdependent and that the axis of care must be a fundamental axis of social construction in order to be able to emerge from this crisis. Secondly, the truth is that this point is particularly interesting to me; interesting because it is public and notorious that I do not especially have the best relationship with Minister Marlaska - that is public and notorious and I will not hide it - but what we are talking about is something else; what we are talking about is whether or not to endorse the fact of Mr Pérez de los Cobos' cessation. Well, the truth is that Mr. Pérez de los Cobos' background, and for which he was awarded with the Command of the Civil Guard of Three Songs, are not good, they are not good because the operation of October 1 was a failure, from all points of view, no matter the political position that is held; it was a logistical failure - for the situation in which the staff were kept - police - because it did not have police results - and then for the punishment operation at the door of the polling stations, which demonstrated the frustration of those who could not understand that this was a political process and a popular mobilization that did not require violent action, but that required political exits, political exits. And he was rewarded for those services rendered. A uniformed politician, a uniformed politician who has formed part of the structure of the Ministry of the Interior with five ministers, with five ministers, in the study cabinet of the Secretariat of State. A man devoted to politics, who also understood his mission on 1 October as a political mission. Unfortunately, it seems that when he arrived at the Command of the Civil Guard of Three Songs he thought he should continue to do politics, it seems, seems. In any case, all this comes as a result of the leaking of a Civil Guard report sent to an investigating court. A report is leaked to the media, which is absolutely infamous, and which also degrades the work of the Civil Guard agents, because it is entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship due to the facts referred to in the report itself: on 30 January 2020 the WHO describes the current outbreak of COVID as a pandemic. It was March 11th. Error. We can choose what we want. We can choose directly how to manipulate the communication of the cancellations of the mobilizations that were planned for those days: the one planned for the 10 was canceled by the unionist summoner Antonio O'Connor, who sent on March 6 an email saying: given the situation of risk of contagion due to the coronavirus, in quotes, since the email does not put that. And this is in a Civil Guard report that goes to court and when it goes to court, it leaks to the press. But no one cares about that. Does no one care that reports sent to the court contain manifestly false facts? Isn't he responsible in guarding the person in the Civil Guard responsible for the command? Yeah. What you don't have is contact with the judge. Look: the head of the Judicial Police of Three Songs no longer carried it by Mr. Pérez de los Cobos, that was many years ago. Nor did he have to be aware of the contents of the report, as you assume he did. Frankly, I believe that if something can be blamed on the Minister, it is not that he has ceased Mr Pérez de los Cobos, but that he has not done so before. But I am concerned about many of the things that are being said here, because political pluralism is being put at risk, and we have seen how again, from here on, how the government wants to win, and it is illegalizing half of the political parties in this House. The same party, the same party that said in this pandemic that a national emergency government was needed and that the army would be responsible for the essential services of the State. A national emergency government, with four ministries, the army controlling the essential services of the State, and the prohibition of half of the political parties. What's that called? What's that called? [[Applauds]] And meanwhile - in the meantime - the gentlemen of the PP and the lords of Citizens continue to dance the water to those who threaten the democracy of this country and...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u219	Mr. Mayor, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u220	... political participation in an important part of this country's citizenship. We ourselves, the PNV, Republican Left, Junst per Cat. How many of us are on the illegalization list? How many? That means that there is a very obvious approach to undermining democracy. And the coalition of PP and VOX is today a threat to democracy that challenges political pluralism and the rights of broad sectors of Spanish society. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u221	Thank you, Mr. Mayoral. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Sicilia Alferez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u222	Thank you, Madam President. Let the People's Party come to the House to ask for the reprobation of Minister Marlaska, after having passed through the Ministry of the Interior Mr Fernández Díaz, only shows that they no longer have any modesty or shame, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] They ask for Minister Marlaska's reprobation allegedly for monitoring and controlling social networks and Internet traffic, but they forget when the Minister of Defense, Dolores de Cospedal, announced to a drum and dish a strategy of his ministry to control traffic on the networks to tackle the misinformation. And there's more. Your parliamentary group, Mrs Beltrán, recorded in December 2017 an initiative, a GNP - I will read it in case you don't know - which in point two said: Introduce capacities in public security services to monitor, monitor, mitigate and respond to actions aimed at questioning and weakening trust in public institutions. This GNP sought to give truth to the information circulating on the Internet. If you do, it's about controlling the bubbles and attacking the misinformation; if this government does, it's an attack on freedom of expression. [[Greetings.-Protests by Mrs Baltran Villalba]] The double morale of the right always, ladies and gentlemen. We're on. You accuse Mr Marlaska and say that he must be removed from the Council of Ministers because he interferes with judicial investigations. Interestingly, in 2012, the People's Party in Government conducted an instruction to the Civil Guard and the Police that they had to inform their police superiors of any investigations being carried out by the Judicial Police. When the PP does, it turns out to be simple coordination; when this government does, it turns out to be an interference in the investigation carried out by the Judicial Police. [[Applauds]] No, no, Mrs. Beltran, may you speak of interference in police investigations... Yours is not interference in the police investigation; it is interference in the very justice itself. For not leaving the Ministry of the Interior, do you remember the statements of Mr. Fernández Díaz when he said that of 'the Prosecutor's Office tunes it up to you'? Do you remember, Mrs. Beltrán, Mr. Cosidó, Director of the Police, who in an SMS said 'We will control the Supreme from behind'? That, Mrs Beltrán, is interference in justice. [[applause.- Mrs Beltrán Villalba makes negative gestures]] That's right, Mrs. Beltrán. And that you come here to talk about the Ministry of the Interior, with your legacy, should embarrass you. But we go on, we go on, we go on. They ask you to reprimand Marlaska because she makes a move to a post of trust. In two years, Mrs Beltrán, Fernández Díaz appointed four Commissioners General of the Judicial Police, responsible for conducting the investigations. Four in two years. I'll go over some of them. José Enrique Rodríguez Ulla, appointed by Mr Fernández Díaz as Commissioner General of the Judicial Police. Do you know how long it lasted at the post? Six months. Do you know why they stopped it, according to the minister's statements? Loss of confidence; confidence that was lost as soon as the unit began to investigate the attic in Marbella by Ignacio González. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Beltrán, we're on. He replaced him at the head of the Judicial Police Commissioner José García Losada. Do you know how long it takes? A year. Reason for ceasing? Loss of confidence. What were you investigating? I was investigating the Gürtel case and the papers from Bárcenas. It's funny, isn't it? [[Applauds]] We go on, we can go on. Not only in the police, but also in the Civil Guard. In the Civil Guard, Lieutenant General Pablo Martín Alonso, deputy operational director, eight months at the post. It's not like they relieved him, they took the job directly. He was thrown straight into retirement. I was investigating the Lezo case and the Punica case, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] But if by any means we are going to remind Mr Fernández Díaz of having set up a pseudo-police or a poorly-called patriotic police force to investigate without the necessary judicial remedy, to invent reports and to filter them into the means to try to use the means and the money of the State to cover up the corruptions of the People's Party. I do not say this, says a judge who has accused number two of the Ministry of the Interior, while Fernández Díaz is at the head of that ministry, Mr. Francisco Martínez, Secretary of State for Security, accused in the case of the Kitchen case. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u223	Mr. Sicilia, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u224	I'll be done right away, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, stop manoeuvring and using in a partisan way an institution like the Civil Guard. With your attitude, ladies and gentlemen of the right, you are no longer patriots, you are not confused. With your attitude you are nothing but simple and pathetic patriots. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u225	Thank you, Mr. Sicily. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Beltrán, I ask you whether you are going to accept any of the amendments tabled by your group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u226	The add-on one, yes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u227	Perfect. The motion will therefore be voted on in its terms, with the amendment incorporated. - REPORT ON THE COMPLIANCE OF THE BUDGET OF THE CAMARA FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 31.1.2 OF THE REGULATION. [[File number 023/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u228	We then move on to the debate on the report on the implementation of the House's budget for the 2019 financial year, in accordance with Rule 31.1.2 of the Rules of Procedure. For the presentation of a summary of the report, I call on the second secretary of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u229	Report on compliance with the Congress of Deputies' budget for the 2019 financial year. In accordance with the principle of budgetary autonomy, as enshrined in article 72.1 of the Constitution, and in accordance with article 31.1.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, the report on the implementation of the House's budget for 2019 is presented to the plenary, the general lines of which are set out below. The fiscal year of the Congress of Deputies for 2019 was conducted, pursuant to Article 134.4 of the Constitution, under a situation of extension of the General Budgets of the State for 2018 approved by Law 6/2018 of 3 July, and in which the budget of the House was integrated with an overall amount of 86,983,110 euros, which represents 0.03% of the General Budgets of the State. Of the total amount of appropriations initially authorised, those actually committed amounted to EUR 75 743 912.56, representing an implementation of 87.08 % of the budget initially approved, bringing the uncommitted balance to EUR 11,239 197.44, representing 12.92 % of the budget. Of the total appropriations committed in the 2019 financial year, EUR 70 368 588.63 were paid during the same obligation and during 2020 payments were made in the amount of EUR 5 393 913.45, the amount of outstanding payments as at 31 December 2019 resulting from the financial year's obligations made between 1 January and 31 March 2020. At the end of the financial year, the cash balance was 18,589.52 euros. In addition, during the 2019 financial year, several credit transfers approved by the Bureau of the House were requested at its meetings on 5 June, 4 and 10 September and 13 December 2019 for a total amount of EUR 2,455,722,52. Congress Hall of Deputies, June 24, 2020.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-24-CD200624.u230	Thank you very much, Madam Second Secretary. There are no requests for words on this agenda item. I inform you that the deadline for the telematic vote has been extended until 1 p.m. tomorrow. The meeting was suspended. It was two and twenty minutes in the afternoon.
